# Site: https://www.leeds.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 477
# --------

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk:
Discover what Leeds has to offer at one of our October 2025 Open Days.
Search for postgraduate research opportunities
All you need to know about applying to Leeds.
Your guide to applying
Explore your accommodation options.
Explore accommodation
Discover postgraduate study and how it can boost your employability.
Sign up to our virtual open day
Explore the options available to fund your postgraduate study.
Explore funding and scholarships
university in the world
most targeted by employers
in the UK
UK student city
Watch our campus tour
Our vibrant campus has everything you need and is just a short walk from the city.
Discover why Leeds is a great place to live and learn.
Student stories
Our students share what it’s like to study at Leeds, from courses to campus life.
“I love that it’s a campus university on the edge of the city.”
“The course exceeded my expectations from the moment I started.”
“Leeds felt like a place where I could try different things.”
“During my time here, everyone I’ve met has been welcoming.”
Research and Innovation
Our researchers work across disciplines, pushing the frontiers of knowledge and discovery to explore complex problems and find solutions.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/university-jobs:
Browse job vacancies, find out what we can offer you and how you can make a difference if you work for us.
Join the University of Leeds and become part of a global community, with over 9,500 staff from more than 100 different countries.
Established in 1904, we have a strong tradition of academic excellence, reflected in our first-class student education and world-leading research that has a real impact around the globe.
Our strategic plan for 2020 to 2030 is rooted in our desire to make a difference.
We're looking for talented people to help us harness our expertise in research and education to tackle inequalities, achieve societal impact and drive change.
Browse our wide range of job vacancies and apply
We reward our employees with a generous benefits package.
There are many training opportunities and chances to develop your career and skills.
Everyone who works at the University has access to a range of support services.
Leeds is a great place to live and work.
It's a bustling city surrounded by beautiful countryside, and our campus is just a short walk from the city centre.
If you’re applying for a job from abroad there are some key things you should consider.
Our values of collaboration, compassion, inclusivity and integrity are at the heart of everything we do
Universal Values, Global Change - our strategy for 2020 to 2030.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/about/doc/faculties-contacts:
The University of Leeds is divided into seven groups known as faculties.
The following list contains links to the contact details and staff lists for each faculty.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni:
Celebrating the impact of Leeds graduates across the globe.
Sign up to become a Leeds volunteer today, and support those who follow in your footsteps.
Our digital and in-person events give you an opportunity to meet and connect with fellow alumni.
There are many ways to give to Leeds and every contribution makes a difference.
Your time studying at Leeds may have come to an end, but your connection with the University is far from over.
You’re a member of the Leeds alumni community, and that’s a pretty special place to be.
More than 350,000 Leeds graduates from all over the world are forever by your side.
Each year, hundreds of alumni volunteers draw on their knowledge, experience and expertise to help the next generation of Leeds graduates to succeed.
Find out how you can join them.
Each one of our worldwide community of supporters helps us raise aspirations, nurture talent and shape a better future.
Update your contact details and manage your communications preferences.
Discover exactly what it means to be a valued member of the Leeds alumni community and how to make the most of it.
Read the latest news from our global alumni community.
Leeds alumni share their favourite spots in the county.
Learn how Leeds alumni played key roles in helping galvanise the world’s approach to aid.
Built thanks to the generosity of over 2,300 generous alumni and supporters, read 10 fascinating facts to celebrate a decade of the Laidlaw Library.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate:
Discover what Leeds has to offer and see how one day could change your life.
What to expect when you have your results if you've held an offer with us.
Browse our courses to find the right degree for you
At Leeds, you’ll gain new skills and experiences and take advantage of life-changing opportunities that will be invaluable to you, personally and professionally.
Our teaching will challenge you to explore, question and discover, and join the next generation of independent critical thinkers – shaping the future world around you.
Discover what Leeds has to offer and see how one day can change your life.
Build your Open Day experience.
What to expect when you hold an offer with us.
Join us online to find out about a range of topics, from applying and finance to student life.
A step-by-step guide to applying.
Find out about our widening access scheme for students from a variety of backgrounds.
Explore our accommodation and find your new home.
Resources to help and support you every step of the way.
21st in the UK
37th in the UK
Find out from more about life at Leeds by contacting a current student online through Unibuddy.
Working with people who had lots of experience in industry just blew me away and it’s helped me to become so much more confident.
The campus is really close to the city centre and I like how handy everything is.
The University was there for me even before I started my course, which really settled my nerves and helped me understand more about studying for a degree.
My lecturers are involved in the latest robotics research.
I learn theory in the classroom and then apply it practically in the lab.
It’s great how you can think outside the box at Leeds.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/masters:
Learn more about your next steps towards Masters study with application advice, the support we offer and funding stories from current students.
£6,000 fee reduction scholarships are available for international students from an eligible region commencing studies in 2025.
Whether you’re continuing from undergraduate study, returning to education or changing direction, a Masters degree at Leeds will help you take the next step and enhance your employability.
You can learn from experts and industry leaders.
Our academics' globally recognised research will feed into your course.
You'll be part of a pioneering research community , taking creative strides to build a better world.
We’ll challenge you to explore, question and discover.
You can become a specialist in your subject.
We have more than 300 Masters degrees.
More than 160 courses can be offered part-time and a number are available online.
Join us for your postgraduate studies and to be part of a prestigious university in a vibrant and student-friendly city.
We're ranked in the top 100 in the QS World University Rankings 2025.
Find out about the different ways you can fund your postgraduate studies.
You can enhance your employability with our industry links and careers guidance.
Information about tuition fees and how to pay.
Find out your accommodation options for living in Leeds.
Want to find out more about life as a Masters student?
Chat with our student ambassadors and ask any questions you have.
Alongside expert subject knowledge, you can build professional experience and valuable transferable skills that employers look for, like critical thinking and project management
You will benefit from our strong partnerships with leading companies and careers support , plus opportunities to take part in work placements, live projects and fieldwork.
Many of our academic team are consultants and practitioners outside of the university, providing an industry-focused education.
Top 100 university in the world
I was keen to develop my business mindset and get back into an industry that interested me.
I chose to study a Masters because I realised employers were looking for more experience than I had.
It has already helped my progression.
Leeds has been a fantastic place for me – it’s given me a perfect balance of academic learning and work experience.
Sign up to watch our online talks to learn more about our scholarships, how to apply, boosting your employability and more.
Find out from our Masters students what it’s like to live, study and work in Leeds.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/research-degrees:
Join our large and thriving postgraduate research community and work with leading experts and thinkers.
Contribute to the subject you love.
Work with leading experts and thinkers.
Gain skills, experience and career options.
Join our large and thriving postgraduate research community.
Your experience will be shaped and supported by Leeds Doctoral College, connecting you with other researchers and putting you in touch with the services, guidance and opportunities you need.
Find a research opportunity
Our researchers bring together excellence and innovation, pushing the frontiers of knowledge and discovery.
They work together across disciplines and with partners to solve complex problems.
The result is truly transformational, fundamental and challenge-led research that advances knowledge and creates solutions to local, national and global challenges.
Find out more about our leading research.
Join us!
Explore our research projects and funding opportunities.
Explore funded projects in our Centres for Doctoral Training and Doctoral Training Partnerships.
Explore the expertise in our faculties and schools.
Find out why Leeds is a great place to live, work and study.
31st most international university in the world
90% of the research submitted
Postgraduate researchers and staff talk about the support and opportunities you'll find at Leeds.
Vicente Merida talks about studying a PhD at Leeds as international student.
We offer accommodation opportunities specifically for postgraduate students.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/international-students:
Join us in one of the UK’s most popular student cities.
Be part of a world top 100 university with excellent teaching and a focus on your future.
Our global reputation for teaching and research attracts students from around the world.
Leeds is a truly multicultural campus with more than 14,400 international students from 137 countries, in a student-friendly city.
We are a Russell Group and a leading UK research university, so research is at the heart of our teaching, whatever your level of study.
You’ll study among inspirational academics, world experts who share your passion for your subject.
Browse our courses and apply today.
We’ll help you reach your potential by challenging you, academically and personally, and helping you develop your employability skills.
You’ll have lots of opportunities to build your practical and transferable skills, and to benefit from careers events and advice.
Project work, fieldwork or work placements are included in many of our undergraduate and postgraduate courses.
Explore our impressive range of accommodation and find your new home.
Discover why our students love living in Leeds.
Find out how we’ll help and support you every step of the way.
Top 100 in the world
129th in the world
You’ll never feel alone in Leeds because your circle of friends can become your family.
I chose Leeds because of my course and the cultural diversity of the city.
Improve your English language skills with a pre-sessional or General English course.
Find out more about studying abroad at Leeds.
This initial year prepares you for an undergraduate degree at Leeds.
Study at the University of Leeds as part of this exciting short-term programme.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/online-courses:
Embrace flexibility with our tailored online courses for advancing careers.
Discover Masters degrees and postgraduate diplomas and certificates, delivered entirely online allowing you to study flexibly around work, family and life commitments.
undefined
Video transcript for Online learning with Leeds.
Audio described version of Online learning with Leeds video.
Designed by computer scientists, this innovative course is for professionals who recognise the importance of AI and want to drive change through technologies such as Machine Learning and Robotics.
This online Masters degree will give you in-demand data skills such as data acquisition, data preparation, data wrangling, modelling and analysis, and how to deal with missing data.
Make a difference in the field of disability rights and social justice.
Learn from expert academics in and gain the knowledge and skills to build more inclusive and sustainable societies.
Upgrade your engineering knowledge and learn specialist skills to apply to the real world.
The course has been designed specifically for engineers who aim to expand their management career options.
Unlock your potential in the future of medicine, shaping understanding of diseases such as cancer using bioinformatics and large data sets.
Undertake a journey through the global health landscape, and immerse yourself in the theory and policy development of this ever-evolving and far-reaching healthcare field.
Designed by experts from the Leeds University Business School and the School of Earth and Environment, this innovative course integrates sustainability and business to equip you for a range of careers.
I found studying online really convenient as it was quite flexible to manage alongside my full-time role.
It also presented an opportunity to learn alongside an international cohort diverse in experience and perspectives.
Explore our short online courses including Masters taster courses, continuous professional development (CPD), academic skills and taster courses for high school students.
Top 15 universities in the UK
4th most targeted by employers
Top 100 universities in the world
Learn more about online learning and how our courses can help you advance your career.
Read our blog to learn more about online teaching, our courses and how online learning could work for you.
What's it like to learn and study online at Leeds?
Find out from our students.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/foundation-courses:
Join us for our undergraduate Open Days.
A foundation year is the first year of an extended degree.
It’s an extra year of study at the start of an undergraduate course which will help you to develop the study skills you need to succeed on your chosen degree.
There are many reasons you may decide to study a foundation year such as not having the qualifications needed or not being predicted the required grades for your chosen degree, wanting additional time to prepare for your degree or wanting to do something new.
From day one, our foundation year students are part of the Leeds student community and you’ll be able to make the most of all the opportunities we offer.
Explore our foundation year options and find the right course for you.
Find out how we’ll  support you before, during and after your foundation course.
Get a feel for campus and university life through our Open Days and taster events.
Find out about the different types of funding available to UK students.
Explore our accommodation options and find your new home.
Discover why our students love living and studying in Leeds.
Hear from students past and present about how doing a foundation course shaped their time at Leeds — and their futures.
Find out more about being an undergraduate student at Leeds.
Find out more about the integrated International Foundation Year courses.
Find out more about our outreach work.
Access resources and advice to support students to get to university.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/mature-students:
Choose from a range of undergraduate degrees, including full-time and part-time courses.
We welcome mature undergraduate students from all backgrounds and the range of experiences they bring.
Mature students are students over 21 years old, or students no longer in compulsory full-time education.
Mature students study across a range of full-time degrees at Leeds, from foundation years to fine art, electronic and electrical engineering, sociology and many more.
Others are studying part-time degrees, in subjects including business leadership and child and family studies.
The Lifelong Learning Centre provides free specialist guidance, advice and support to mature and part-time students, from pre-application through to graduation and beyond.
Apply for an undergraduate part-time course using our Microsoft Form.
If you’re thinking of studying at Leeds and don't hold formal qualifications, don’t let that stand in your way.
Email the Lifelong Learning Centre at lifelonglearning@leeds.ac.uk or call us on +44(0) 113 343 3212 .
Explore our course options including part-time degrees and foundation year courses.
Our free short course helps you build the skills and confidence that you’ll need for university.
Join our on-campus and online events for information about courses, student life and returning to education.
Get confidential advice on routes into higher education, financial support, courses and applying.
The Lifelong Learning Centre provides support before, during and after your studies.
Worried about funding your studies?
This blog answers common questions around student finance.
Hear from mature students past and present about their time at Leeds.
Be the first to hear about about our upcoming events and activities by email

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/open-days-and-visits:
Whether you’re interested in undergraduate, Masters or research study, there are lots of ways you can get a feel for our campus and for university life at Leeds.
Our beautiful and unique single-site campus has got everything you’d find in a small town and is just a short walk from the city centre.
Get a feel for our campus and university life at Leeds.
Our student-led tours are a fantastic way to explore our beautiful red-brick campus.
Bookings are now open for summer 2025.
Find out more about postgraduate study at Leeds through our online talks.
Find out about upcoming virtual fairs and exhibitions across the UK.
Meet our expert staff and ask us anything about postgraduate study at Leeds.
If you’re visiting the UK, we offer bespoke campus tours led by our international student ambassadors.
Whether virtual or in person, we meet prospective students to advise about life as an international student in Leeds.
We work with a global network of representatives who can advise you about applying to study with us.
Find out more about our foundation courses for UK students.
Find out why 14,400 international students make the University of Leeds their home and how we support them.
Discover how a Masters degree at Leeds will help you enhance your employability.
Find out about funding, and the Masters academic experience.
Information on how you can join our large and thriving postgraduate research community, supported by Leeds Doctoral College.
Find out how you can get involved with research, tailor your course and take advantage of life-changing opportunities as an undergraduate student.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/research-and-innovation:
Highlights from our research as we collaborate to tackle the world’s biggest challenges.
Celebrating our success achieved through partnership and collaboration.
Helping graduates start businesses and upskilling partner companies has boosted Leeds in this year’s Knowledge Exchange Framework (KEF).
Universities in the North - Powering regional economic growth
Our community of researchers brings together excellence and innovation, pushing the frontiers of knowledge and discovery to shape a better future.
This involves creating, nurturing and promoting an environment in which people work together across disciplines and with partners to solve complex problems.
The result is truly transformational fundamental and challenge-led research that advances knowledge and creates solutions to local, national and global challenges.
Video transcript: University of Leeds Strategy 2020-2030: Research and innovation
Explore curated highlights of our research across multiple disciplines, tackling the world’s biggest challenges.
Follow our LinkedIn account for the latest research news.
Follow our BlueSky account for the latest research news.
Kenyan students have demonstrated how Artificial Intelligence can enhance the study of endangered animals.
Health and medicine researchers who are changing lives with cutting edge research early in their careers celebrated in a special exhibition at the University's Parkinson Court.
A peatland complex in the Congo Basin which is known to be a globally important carbon store is twice as old as previously thought, according to a new scientific study.
4,000 researchers in our postgraduate community
£100 million invested in five years to recruit future academic leaders
Each faculty is subdivided into schools, institutes and centres.
Key contacts and web links for faculties and schools
Key contacts and web links for interdisciplinary research areas
We conduct interdisciplinary and impact-orientated research to address challenges at regional, national and global levels.
The results of the Research Excellence Framework 2021 identified that 90% of our submitted research has a quality rating of “world-leading” or "internationally excellent”.
Access advice and support on funding sources, proposal development and collaborative projects.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/business-partnerships:
Whether you want to work with an academic, test a product using our world-class facilities or upskill your employees, we can help you solve your business challenges.
Whatever your sector or business size, start the conversation with our specialist teams today.
Hire our world-class facilities to carry out your own research or test and develop your products.
Attend a careers fair or advertise a job, placement or voluntary opportunity to our students and graduates.
Our experts can translate the latest research in your sector into practical solutions you can apply to your operations.
A qualified graduate or postgraduate can work on a strategically important project in your business for one to three years.
Develop your team’s specialist skills with a range of continuing professional development (CPD) courses.
Your employees can study for a degree while working when you partner with us to deliver an apprenticeship.
Grow your business, make connections and access our facilities by joining our vibrant community of innovators and entrepreneurs.
Receive in-depth training and mentoring to grow your business fast with our government-subsidised course for SMEs.
How Vet-AI worked with our academic specialists to develop AI technology that can triage a pet’s symptoms and reduce unnecessary visits to the vets.
How joining Nexus helped Videregen find collaborators and partners, access lab and hospital facilities and secure investment.
How we’re collaborating with KMPG on learning, skills and thought leadership projects to drive value for regional businesses and entrepreneurs.
Make the right connections to realise your ambitions and grow your SME.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/around-campus:
Explore our academic facilities, social spaces and campus landmarks.
Everything is all on one campus, it’s really easy to get around and there are lots of places to meet friends.
Leeds is a great place to live and our smoke-free campus is only a short walk from the city centre.
Leeds University Union is at the heart of our campus and our students’ social lives with over 300 clubs and societies to choose from.
Video transcript: Leeds campus tour
Audio described version of Leeds campus tour video
Watch Leeds campus tour video on Bilibili
Whether you’re new to Leeds, live here already or are looking for somewhere to mix up your day-to-day routine, our campus is fun to explore.
Check out our Medium blog posts for more inspiration.
Whether you’re looking for somewhere to eat your lunch, to study or just to sit and watch the world go by, our beautiful campus has it all.
We’ve got some amazing art across our campus.
Find out more about some of our favourite pieces.
About 100 acres in size, the University of Leeds campus is just the right size for a mini adventure.
Book your place on a student-led campus tour - a fantastic way to explore the University and get a feel of our beautiful red-brick campus.
Find out more about our plans to transform campus and deliver sustainable services and world-leading facilities.
Explore our four libraries on campus, including two public galleries displaying rare items, plus one off-campus library in St James's Hospital.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/give-to-leeds:
Your gift to us can make a difference in so many ways.
Our community of supporters helps us shape a better future.
Give to Leeds today and help us transform lives.
Help us to nurture talent, push forward with research, and make discoveries which will change the world for the better.
Your gifts enable us to nurture talent, raise aspirations and power societal change.
Each one of our worldwide community of supporters plays a vital role in supporting our University’s outstanding research and education.
With your help, we can shape a better future for humanity.
Make a single or regular donation via our Giving platform.
If you’re not able to donate online or would like to speak to us about your donations please email the Give to Leeds team at give@leeds.ac.uk and we can provide alternative ways for you to make your gift.
Find out how your donation could change the lives of students at Leeds.
“It’s such a blessing to know that there are so many supporters who believe that my personal circumstances shouldn’t limit what I can achieve.”
“My scholarship has allowed me to study without the stresses I’ve faced through childhood and adolescence.”
“In the future, if I am in the position to give back to Leeds financially, I’d love to – because I understand first-hand what a difference it makes.”
“Suddenly, that huge financial barrier standing between me and my ambition to become a social worker had gone.”
“I’ll never forget the day that I was awarded a scholarship.
It was life-changing and put me a step closer to my dream of being a doctor.”
Discover some of the key projects that your support can help bring to life.
Helping thousands of students to thrive
A groundbreaking partnership to bring biodiversity back to the UK
Solutions through innovation
Addressing global inequalities
Creating a greener future for fashion and textiles
By including a gift to the University in your will, you can help us to nurture talent, or push forward research in an area close to your heart.
Give the gift of your expertise and time and help guide students to success.
Trusts, foundations and other corporate partners realise their mission by funding world-leading research and working with us to benefit the wider community.
Volunteer at Leeds and use your knowledge and experience to help students succeed.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/about:
Our campus is a short walk from Leeds City Centre.
Established in 1904, the University of Leeds is one of the largest universities in the UK.
We’re part of the Russell Group of research-intensive universities and are renowned globally for the quality of our research and teaching.
Read our academic strategy for 2020–2030.
Learn about our global partnerships in research and teaching to drive change for a better future.
The latest stories, press office contacts and our news archive.
Search our undergraduate courses, Masters and research degrees.
Find contact details and staff lists for our seven faculties.
Find key contact details for the University of Leeds.
Top 100 We’re ranked in the top 100 universities in the world
33 Our staff have been awarded 33 National Teaching Fellowships
37,000 More than 37,000 students are currently studying here
£1.9 billion contributed to the Leeds City Region economy
Three We’ve won the Queen’s Anniversary prize three times
Commendation For our enhancement of student learning opportunities

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-open-days:
Ready to discover Leeds?
Explore a World Top 100 university (QS World University rankings 2026) at our 2025 Open Days:
Our Open Day sessions fill up fast, so make sure to book early to avoid disappointment.
Book now
Plan your Open Day
Find out more about the sessions and activities you can take part in at Open Day.
Video transcript: Open Days at the University of Leeds
Can’t wait until Open Day?
Get a feel for our campus and life at Leeds online.
View our student tour campus video
Tour our student accommodation
View our photo gallery to see some of the facilities and activities you can explore at our Open Days.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-how-to-apply/doc/apply:
We welcome and encourage applications from talented students from all backgrounds.
This page guides you through the application process.
Choosing the right course is one of the most important decisions you’ll make, so think carefully about what you want from your studies.
You'll need to think about:
As well as single honours, we offer an exciting range of courses that offer alternative routes and flexible study options , including:
You could also get a taster of studying with Leeds through our free online courses .
They're offered in a range of subjects and could help you decide which course is right for you and provide some subject experience to help boost your application.
Visit the International entry requirements page for information about the qualifications we accept and our English language requirements.
If you’re aged 21 or over when you begin your studies, you’re classed as a mature student.
We welcome applications from mature students from all backgrounds onto both full-time and part-time programmes.
Your life and work experience mean there are alternative entry routes available other than formal qualifications, including a foundation course, a validated access course and the Access to Higher Education Diploma.
For specific entry criteria, please search for your course .
You can also find out about study options and support for mature students .
If you have an unspent criminal conviction, you may need to declare it to us.
This is usually required when we make you an offer that you wish to accept.
For a small number of our courses, you'll need to declare it when you apply.
Having a criminal conviction will only rarely stop you from studying at Leeds.
Find out more about declaring a criminal conviction .
You should apply online through UCAS for full-time courses.
International students should apply through the UCAS system in the same way as UK students.
Find out about our overseas teams and support you can get with applying in your country .
Get advice about writing your personal statement .
UCAS provides comprehensive information on the entire application process, from choosing your university and course right through to starting university and settling into student life.
Video transcript: Applying through UCAS — University of Leeds
If you’re applying for a part-time degree , you should apply directly to the University by emailing our Lifelong Learning Centre: lifelonglearning@leeds.ac.uk .
Visit the application dates and deadlines page .
For many courses, we’re happy to receive applications for deferred entry, which can be submitted during your last year at school.
We’d encourage you to use your personal statement to explain your reasons for taking a gap year.
Please note that you’ll still need to meet any conditions of your offer in the academic year in which you apply.
However, for some particularly competitive courses we’re not able to consider applications for deferred entry.
This is because we receive a high number of applications to these programmes and we need to assess all applications for a given year of entry at the same time to ensure fairness.
Check Course Search to find out whether we accept deferred entry for your chosen course .
Many of our academic schools will consider requests to transfer onto a course from another university.
You usually need to show that you've met the course's standard first-year entry requirements and that you're performing well in your current degree, which must be relevant to the new course.
For further information, get in touch with the relevant admissions team using the contact details on the course page .
We advise that your school includes information about your mitigating circumstances in the reference that they write as part of your UCAS application and, where possible, expect that this should have been taken into consideration by the exam board so that any adjustments could be made during assessment and marking.
If you’d like to discuss your situation, please contact the admissions team for your course, using the contact details on the course page .
Look at our Admissions Policy 2026-27 if you'd like more detailed information about the admissions process.
Once you've submitted your application, visit our After you’ve applied page to find out what happens next.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/postgraduate-virtual-open-day-2:
Discover why our world top 100 university (QS World University Rankings 2026) is the right place for you to grow and succeed throughout your postgraduate study and beyond.
Access our online talks to learn more about your subject, find out about funding and scholarships, and discover how a postgraduate degree can boost your employability.
Our online talks are your opportunity to understand more about postgraduate study at Leeds, including:
When you sign up, you'll also gain exclusive access to watch our recorded Masters subject talks.
Our talks offer the opportunity to discover the breadth of subjects on offer and how the passion of our academics, students and industry partners combine to ensure our courses are relevant and impactful in the real world.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/masters-funding:
Register for information on scholarships, important deadlines and subject information.
There are many ways you can fund your studies.
Funding at postgraduate level is different to undergraduate, and many students choose to seek funding from a variety of sources.
It’s a good idea to plan financially before starting your course.
Read our article to discover how you can create your own personalised funding package and make your Masters a reality.
We offer a range of scholarships and bursaries that you don't need to pay back and are awarded based on personal circumstances or academic achievement.
Find out what’s available for UK and international students, whether you are eligible and how to apply.
If you are a former student of the University of Leeds you may be eligible for a 10% alumni tuition fee bursary.
Find details of our subject-related scholarships, based on academic achievement.
The Leeds Masters Scholarship supports UK students from under-represented groups to study a postgraduate qualification.
It is worth £7,000.
Our sports scholarships support elite athletes and coaches to combine academic and sporting excellence.
This funding is available to forced migrants to the UK who are unable to access mainstream funding.
Funding for UK, EU and international Masters students is also available from a number of other organisations.
Find out more about scholarships from charities and trusts , and external funding opportunities .
Many Masters students choose to apply for a government-backed loan part of their funding package.
This is available for UK students on full-time, part-time or distance learning taught or research Masters degree courses.
Find out more about the government-backed postgraduate loan and how to apply.
If you are a UK student taking certain health and social care courses, you may be able to get NHS funding.
Find out more about NHS funding .
For more information about the relationship between fees, student loans and Sharia Law view our financial support for Muslim students .
Studying abroad is a big investment.
You might be able to get funding from government, independent sponsors, the University or other funding bodies.
Check if any funding is available from your country to study in the UK.
This could be from your home government, or from companies or organisations based in your home country.
Visit their websites or contact your local government office.
The UK government offers postgraduate scholarships for international students , such as the Chevening Awards and the Commonwealth Scholarships.
There is also funding for students in specific countries which you can get more information on from the British Council website .
EU students starting their course in the 2021/2022 academic year or later are classed as international students.
Discover how Pragya has become the first in her family to study abroad, having secured an India Anniversary Masters Scholarship and a place at the University of Leeds.
Learn how Computer Science student Andy is targeting a career in the burgeoning AI industry after receiving a scholarship to study at the University of Leeds.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/around-campus/doc/video-transcript-campus-tour-university-leeds:
Transcript for the video embedded on the Around campus homepage , Welcome homepage , Campus tours page , Undergraduate open days homepage and the University of Leeds homepage .
(The screen shows the University of Leeds campus (Great Hall, Parkinson building), and student Haris is seen walking down Woodhouse Lane, approaching the steps in front of the Parkinson Building.)
Haris: So you want to know what campus life is like at the University of Leeds?
(Images of campus and key buildings on campus, Great Hall, Clothworker’s Court, Outside Leeds University Union, Brotherton Library, Business School, Parkinson building.)
Haris: First up, it’s a city campus that feels like a community.
(Student Clara is standing on the top of the Parkinson Building steps, with a busy road, (Blenheim Terrace / Woodhouse Lane) in the background.)
Clara: On the edge of a city that feels like home.
(The screen shows a series of views of Leeds city centre and people in the city.
The camera then shows Clara, who is stood on Lyddon Terrace, a street on campus.)
Clara: Welcome to the North!
(The screen shows a map of the UK with Leeds / the North pointed out.)
Haris is shown jogging down the stairs in the Brotherton Library into the main building / the Brotherton Library Reading Room.)
Haris: Leeds is the real deal, red brick Russell Group stuff.
(The red brick buildings on campus are shown on screen.
A student, Aeron is shown entering the main lecture theatre in the Esther Simpson Building.
Students are shown in lecture theatres, laboratories and facilities across the University, working in hands-on learning environments.)
Aeron: It’s got everything you’d expect from a world top 100 university.
Haris: As well as some things you might not expect.
(A student, Almudena is seen holding a book from one of the Little Free Libraries in front of her face.)
Almudena: You can swap books at the Little Free Libraries.
(A student, Bavishyaa​, is shown picking herbs from the Sustainable Garden, next to the Roger Stevens Building on campus.)
Bavishyaa: Pick free herbs from the Sustainable Garden.
(Haris is shown standing in front of the Sign for Art sculpture, more fondly called the Wavy Bacon.
A Facebook-comment-style graphic pops up to showcase some more names the students call the statue including “El Tocino” or the “squiggles”.)
Haris: We’ve got a giant bacon.
Because why not?
(On-screen images show the Peregrine Falcon on top of The Parkinson Building, the beehives on top of the Laidlaw Library roof and one of the many bunnies on campus, sat on the grass outside the Great Hall.)
Phoebe: And birds, bees and bunnies!
(A close-up shot of student Faith outside the Roger Stevens building appears.
Before that, the screen shows shots displaying the famous Brutalist architecture of the building.)
Faith: And the architecture’s brutal!
(Student Rianna, is shown walking through St George’s Field, a green space on campus.
The screen then shows views of the Precinct, the street on which the Union building sits, and the Meet, Sit and Talk stone circle sculptures on campus.)
Rianna: Getting about is a walk in the park.
The campus has a relaxed small-town feel.
Everybody looks out for each other.
(Rianna and Haris share an exchange as they walk past each other towards the Sign for Art sculpture.)
Haris: Hi, you alright?
Rianna: Hi
(Students Phoebe and Calum are sitting at a bus stop on Woodhouse Lane, the main road that runs in front of University campus.)
Phoebe: It’s only a five minute bus ride to the centre of Leeds.
(A Google Map graphic pops up on-screen, showing a direction route from the campus into the city.
Rianna is shown standing in the kitchen of her student accommodation.)
Rianna: Everything on campus is within a 15-minute walk.
(A mobile phone alarm graphic vibrates on-screen, then student Mason is shown, sitting up in his bed.)
Mason: So you can roll out of bed right into your lecture.
(Mason grabs a slice of toast that Rianna has just buttered for herself, before going on to leave the kitchen.)
Mason: Cheers.
Rianna: Oi.
(The screen shows inside the EDGE – the on-campus gym and sports facility, including a – spin class, gym equipment, climbing wall, and swimming pool.
An on-screen text exchange graphic between two students appears on screen, asking if they’re coming to the spin class.)
Phoebe: Get to a fully loaded gym and sports facility, without breaking the bank.
(Students are shown sitting in the Common Ground café on campus, enjoying coffees, chatting to each other or studying.
The screen shows different areas of campus where students are sitting working, chatting and relaxing.
Haris: And find plenty of breathing space to hang out and study.
(A series of portrait-captured faces appear, showing a bakery worker, a café worker and some of the university help desk team.
The screen shows a range of images from around the campus showcasing the parks, places to relax or eat and the green spaces available on campus.)
Rianna: You’ll find loads of friendly faces out enjoying parks, public spaces and cafes.
(The screen shows ducks in the Cooling Pond outside the Roger Stevens building.)
Sound effect: Quack quack!
(Student Matteo is shown drinking a cup of coffee, followed by other images of coffees.)
Matteo: We take our coffee drinking very seriously.
(A Barista, working in the café in the Common Ground passes a coffee cup over the counter and shouts out the order.)
Barista: Hazelnut Soya Latte for Grace!
Mason is now sitting in the Terrace Bar in the Leeds University Union and enjoying a drink with friends.
The screen shows different views of people celebrating and events in and outside the Union.)
Mason: Then, of course, there’s the award-winning Leeds Student Union.
Bavishyaa: We think it’s the best student union in the country.
(The screen shows sports, live events and music in the Union, then various places you can eat in or buy food from the Leeds University Union building.)
Phoebe: From Sports Wednesday and Thursday quiz night to Fruity Fridays, Leeds University Union is here to make sure you love your time at Leeds.
Faith: Grab a drink and a bite from the many bars and cafes.
Check out the handy supermarkets.
(Presenters and guests are in the Leeds Student Radio station, with student Faith sat in a studio at a broadcasting desk, speaking into a microphone.)
Faith: And don’t forget your friendly radio station.
Run by students, for students.
(Students are shown taking part in some of the societies and sports clubs that are available for students to join at the University.)
Phoebe: There are over 300 societies to get stuck into.
Haris: Salsa, Buddhist Meditation, Motorsport Society,
Phoebe: Green Action, as well as over 70 sports clubs.
So whatever you’re into, you’ll meet people that are into it, too,
(A mobile phone graphic appears on screen, showing a world map with pin drops on various cities in the UK, Europe, Middle East and Asia.)
Phoebe: From over 130 countries all over the world.
(Haris is walking outside Clothworkers Court.
The screen then shows different views of vibrant campus and student community.
Haris: But above all, it’s a friendly, safe, super-inclusive place to live and learn.
(Students Sanjana and Nursena are walking together through the Sensory Garden outside Charles Morris Hall accommodation.)
Sanjana: You’ll feel at home walking about.
(More views of the campus are shown, then campus security staff walking outside Clothworkers Court, sat in their vehicle and speaking to students on the Precinct walkway outside Leeds University Union.)
Security guard: Campus security isn’t just on campus.
Haris: It’s spread across the whole of Leeds.
(The screen shows the University nightbus pick up point sign and the night bus driver sat in his van, before opening the side door to appear.)
Night bus driver: The nightbus brings you home safely after a night out.
(Students Phoebe, Sanjana and Clara are sat in the Leeds University Union with two support therapy dogs, before we see some images showing some of the various support facilities the Union offers such as meeting spaces / quiet spaces for one-to-one chats.
Phoebe: And student support services are on hand to help if you’re feeling wobbly.
(Students are shown socialising together on campus.)
Phoebe: Whoever you are, wherever you’re from, you’ll find your people in our friendly campus community.
(Haris walks outside Leeds University Union talking to the camera attached to a drone, before it takes off we see the University campus from above.)
Haris: So, this is my Leeds.
But it’s what you make of it.
Come and see it for yourself.
And make Leeds yours.
(The video ends with the message “Join our campus community” and a link to find out more at www.leeds.ac.uk .)

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate/doc/campus-tours:
Student-led campus and city tours will take place throughout the summer.
Our campus tours are a fantastic way to explore the University and get a feel for our beautiful red-brick campus.
You’ll have the chance to ask questions and talk with our friendly student ambassadors about their experiences at Leeds.
In the afternoon you can join our tour of Leeds city centre, exploring some of the city’s most iconic spots.
You can also see the campus for yourself at one of our Open Days.
Find out more about undergraduate Open Days .
If you can’t make any of our events on campus this year, let our students show you around our vibrant campus community in our campus tour video.
Discover the wonderful red-brick campus, study areas, accommodation, green spaces to relax and the best places to get a coffee and meet up with friends.
Find out more about our 300 clubs, societies and sports facilities – there really is something for everyone.
See the best locations on campus and discover the ways we support you when you are here.
Video transcript: Campus tour of the University of Leeds
Get to know the highlights of our beautiful, single-site campus with a self-guided campus tour .
Campus tours don’t include visits to accommodation, but you can find out about our accommodation online or take a virtual accommodation tour .
Find out more about our community and campus and watch recordings of talks from our 2025 Open Days with our online events .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/homepage/174/chat-to-students:
Want to know more about student life at Leeds?
Chat to one of our current students to find out what it’s like to be part of our welcoming community.
Link to Leeds gives you the opportunity to chat to students from a range of subject areas and countries.
Start a chat with a student below and they will respond to you within a working day.
You can also take part in our upcoming events .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/directory-record/23325/katie-hartmann:
When I first visited Leeds, I loved that it’s a campus university on the edge of the city, giving me the best of both worlds.
The campus felt like home, and this cemented that it was the university for me.
There are so many great spots to study on campus like Brotherton Library, and facilities are always being modernised and improved.
There’s also lots of greenery and places to socialise like Leeds University Union.
Before university, I was nervous about making friends, but there were so many opportunities to make connections.
I went to welcome events, lived in student accommodation, and joined student societies.
In my first year, I decided to move accommodation, as I didn’t feel like mine was the right fit.
The accommodation team and my academic personal tutor gave me lots of support with the move and I felt much happier and met some great friends.
Having the city so close to my student accommodation was also a real perk as there was so much to do and explore.
I loved living in a shared house during the rest of my time at university.
The student areas felt like a big community.
I enjoyed making a home with some of my best friends, hosting board game nights and cooking together.
Initially, I was nervous about my studies and how university worked.
However, everyone is in the same position, so you learn together.
There’s also lots of support available and my academic personal tutor was a good starting point for anything I needed.
I also found support hours ran by lecturers useful to get clarification on topics covered in lectures.
At Leeds, I learned from experts, who were developing the research that I was studying.
The flexibility of the courses at Leeds allowed me to try a healthcare module in my final year, and this sparked an interest to work in medical negligence law.
This led me to secure a training contract at a firm highly reputable in medical negligence.
The social side, the independence you gain, and learning new life skills are all invaluable aspects of going to university.
Outside of my studies, I enjoyed being a member of the Music Society.
It was refreshing to spend time with a completely different group of people compared to those I saw every day.
A favourite memory was Leeds Ball in my final year: it was a great chance to celebrate three years at Leeds with friends.
Now I’ve graduated, I’ve secured a training contract with a law firm specialising in medical negligence.
This success was supported by the University’s careers service.
Before I start work, I plan to spend a year travelling Asia and Australia.
Leeds has helped to grow my confidence and independence so much.
Before University, I would never have considered travelling, but now I have a flight booked!

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/directory-record/23322/emilio-rello-rinc%C3%B3n:
Doing a Masters had been on my mind for years, and it wasn’t a decision I took lightly.
What really stood out was the University’s repution for transport studies.
The Institute for Transport Studies (ITS) is the UK’s leading department for transport teaching and research.
I was interested in learning more about transport modelling for public transportation, and at the time Leeds was planning its first tram route, so I was excited to study somewhere where transport change was actually happening.
The course exceeded my expectations from the moment I started.
The structure, delivery and teaching all perfectly matched what I wanted.
The passion and knowledge of the professor made it so engaging.
It completely changed how I thought about my career and helped shape what I wanted to do next.
There was a good balance between lectures, hands on training and real-world application.
The highlight of the course was a trip to the Netherlands and Belgium to apply what we’d learned.
Travelling and bonding with classmates was a great way to end the year.
One of my favourite things about ITS was the diversity, both in the areas of study and the cultural backgrounds of the lecturers, researchers and students.
With classmates from all over the world, we had lots of different perspectives and I learned a lot from their experiences.
Shortly after I completed my course, I received a job offer in the exact area where I wanted to work.
The programme gave me the foundation and confidence I needed to go for this role.
It wasn’t just about the academics.
I was also a School Representative and I joined the Link to Leeds team, which helped build my confidence and strengthen my CV.
The Careers Service was brilliant.
I used their CV checking service and their one-to-one sessions to help prepare for interviews.
I even borrowed an outfit for an interview from their clothing collection, which was a fantastic service.
I’m from Mexico City, which is a very big city.
I wasn’t sure if Leeds would feel big enough for me, but I quickly realised it was perfect.
I found it walkable, friendly and full of life.
I lived in St Mark’s Residence, close to campus and with my own bathroom and shared kitchen.
The short commute meant I got to spend lots of time on campus.
I also rented a bike from the Bike Hub for £22 for three months.
It made it easy to get around and stay active.
Despite the intensity of a Masters, I made time for activities.
I tried salsa, volleyball, rowing and kayaking.
The Edge gym was amazing and free in the mornings if you live in University accommodation.
If I could give one piece advice to other students, it would be to get involved.
There’s so much to try and those experiences make your time at Leeds even more valuable.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/directory-record/23323/nametso-khumo:
Before starting university, I’d studied both biology and business-related subjects for five years and was really torn between the two.
I didn’t want to give either up completely, so I was looking for a course that blended both areas.
Leeds stood out because it offered Biotechnology with Enterprise, letting me explore my interests in science and business simultaneously.
The flexibility of the course, such as options for a placement year or integrated masters, made Leeds feel like a place where I could try different things and figure out what I enjoyed.
Moving to a completely different continent was definitely a big change, and I remember feeling pretty anxious about not knowing what to expect.
It was my first time being completely on my own, so the idea of having to figure everything out by myself felt overwhelming.
Once I got to Leeds, it wasn’t as difficult as I’d imagined.
My university accommodation was near the city centre, so even while I was still trying to understand the transport system, I could just walk everywhere I needed to go.
Bit by bit, I started settling in, and now I really value how that experience helped me become more independent and confident.
The transition to the UK was a lot smoother than I expected.
The university sent out clear information before I arrived, which helped me feel more prepared.
Although I missed the airport pick-up service, my accommodation staff were there to help me settle in and provided a welcome pack with essentials like bedding and helpful information about local supermarkets and getting around the city.
My advice to other international students would be to arrive early if possible; it gives you time to settle in before term starts.
Also, most people are friendly and happy to help, so don’t hesitate to ask if you’re unsure about something.
Completing my undergraduate, master’s, and now PhD at Leeds has allowed me to explore a wide range of areas within life sciences.
I was first introduced to cancer research through a module in my second year of undergrad, sparking a strong interest in the field.
At the same time, I found plant biotechnology equally fascinating and pursued both during my master’s.
My interest in cancer therapeutics ultimately stood out, leading me to focus my PhD on cancer immunotherapy.
Participating in designing potential cancer treatments has been incredibly rewarding, especially knowing this work might benefit patients.
One of the most surprising things about studying at Leeds was just how large and diverse the university is.
It quickly became clear that university life goes beyond lectures—there’s so much more to get involved in.
The variety of activities, clubs, and events and meeting people from around the world enriches the experience, making the university vibrant and full of opportunities socially and academically.
Outside of my studies, I joined the Women in Leadership Society and the Christian Union, each offering unique benefits.
The Women in Leadership Society provided empowering events, talks, and networking opportunities, while the Christian Union was a supportive community where I could share my faith and get involved in volunteering and social activities.
Both societies allowed me to meet people outside my course and provided meaningful breaks from academic work.
My time at Leeds has significantly shaped my ambitions for a career in pharmaceuticals and biotechnology.
The rigorous training I received throughout my studies provided a solid scientific foundation, practical lab skills, critical thinking, and effective communication abilities.
I'm motivated to apply this knowledge to real-world challenges, bridging the gap between research and patient care to ultimately make a meaningful impact in healthcare.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/directory-record/23328/fatema-al-shirawi:
I came to Leeds to study the International Foundation Programme before studying International Business and Finance.
My foundation year prepared me for my degree, and I learnt things I didn’t learn at school, like referencing and writing reports.
The year gave me a brilliant advantage as I was introduced to many of the topics I’d be covering in my degree.
The triple-accredited Leeds University Business School and the University’s global ranking led me to choosing Leeds.
Throughout my degree, I took part in many opportunities such as trading simulations and pitching a business idea to industry experts, which prepared me for the real world.
When I arrived in Leeds, I was nervous about making friends.
However, I met some great people from all over the world and from different cultures, as well as people from the same background as me.
I met like-minded people through initiatives set up for international students, so it wasn’t hard at all to make friends.
I was initially worried about the language barrier as English isn’t my first language, but meeting other international students helped as we practised English together.
Interacting with such diverse groups of people at Leeds helped me to discover my love for learning about other cultures, which I was then able to explore in my dissertation.
I’ve always felt safe in Leeds.
I chose to live in accommodation close to campus and the University security office, which gave me an extra sense of safety.
During my time here, everyone I’ve met has been welcoming and helpful.
I’m really happy I chose to study here.
My academic personal tutor supported me throughout my studies.
From listening to my thoughts and ideas around my studies, to finding part-time jobs and connecting with student life by joining societies, she guided and helped me through everything, both academic and personal, and I’m still in touch with her now.
I engaged with the Careers Service a lot.
They helped with everything from writing CVs and cover letters to applications and interview support.
I applied for an internship at the University and had to do a group interview, which I hadn’t done before.
The Careers Service helped me to prepare by explaining the whole process and asking me interview questions so I could feel confident going into it.
I got the job and am grateful to the team for all their support.
I had several jobs as a student, working as an ambassador for Leeds University Business School, in the international office, taking on summer internships and being a Sustainability Architect in the Sustainability Service.
Seeing and being involved in all the University’s work around sustainability inspired a passion for sustainability and led me to apply for a Masters in Climate Change Finance and Investment at University of Edinburgh, which I plan to begin soon.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/transcripts/doc/video-transcript-university-leeds-strategy-2020-2030-research-innovation:
Transcript for the video embedded on the University of Leeds Strategy 2020-2030 page , the Research and Innovation homepage and the University of Leeds homepage .
[Music playing.]
[Views of the University of Leeds campus buildings from above and below.
Shots inside a laboratory using a robotic arm, a student sketching, a close up of a human eye.]
[Nick Plant sits down in a chair in a modern communal space.
Trees and sunshine can be seen through the windows behind.]
[Caption says: Professor Nick Plant.
Deputy Vice-Chancellor Research and Innovation.]
Nick says: Within the University of Leeds, our research and innovation crosses many different disciplines, from fine art through to medicine.
As a really good example, in health sciences, we don't just have medics and biologists.
We're able to bring in our social scientists, our artists to be able to work together in a truly interdisciplinary way that allows us to create novel solutions that are truly disruptive and have a positive impact.
[Tim Ensor crosses a laboratory and sits in a chair, facing the camera.]
[Caption says: Professor Tim Ensor.
Professor of International Health Systems Research.]
Tim says: Challenge-led research works hand in hand with fundamental research.
[Louise Heery crosses a laboratory and sits in a chair, facing the camera.]
[Caption says: Louise Heery.
Head of Strategic Research Initiatives.]
Louise says: Challenge-led research can often throw up gaps in our knowledge.
And to solve those gaps, we need more fundamental science.
And that can be from any discipline because global challenge questions are complex or wicked problems.
[Views of a town overlooked by bright skies and a mountain range, an African village.
Close up shots of tablets and medicines.
Rebecca King sits down before the camera.]
[Caption says: Dr Rebecca King.
Associate Professor of International Health.]
Rebecca says: I'm interested in antimicrobial resistance, which is a major global challenge.
One of the key causes for this occurring is the overuse and the misuse of antibiotics.
It's not sufficient for one sector to address antimicrobial resistance.
We need to look at it from the perspective of human health, animal health, and the environment.
We call that the One Health approach.
[Paul Cooke walks across a cinema auditorium camera and sits down.]
[Caption says: Professor Paul Cooke.
Centenary Chair in World Cinemas.]
Paul says: One of the big projects that we are running is a project in Nepal.
We've used community filmmaking there to help people develop their own solutions to the issue of the misuse of antibiotics.
The material that we've produced, which was a series of films, have been used in a number of different ways.
On the one hand, they've been used in the communities as public health awareness campaigns.
But we've also used these films to help communities speak directly to government.
Tim says: It means that we understand the needs of local communities.
Paul says: It's about the participants designing the programmes for themselves.
Tim says: It gives those communities more power over the services that are being delivered.
Nick says: Without research funding, much of the work that we do could not take place.
Louise says: That could be funding from public funding sources.
It could be funding from trusts and foundations.
Nick says: A really good example of how we work with different funders is through one of our alumnus, Peter Chaney.
And he has very kindly set up a fellowship fund.
Louise says: They enable us to award fellowships to colleagues overseas and bring them to Leeds to spend time working with our academics.
[Irene Agyepong appears on a television screen in a laboratory.]
[Caption says: Dr Irene Agyepong.
Public Health Faculty, Ghana College of Physicians and Surgeons.]
Irene says: Being able to work across diverse stakeholders and co-create solutions together is critical.
Exploring problems, exploring solutions, forming networks has been invaluable.
Nick says: Academics are ideally placed to solve some of the great challenges in the world today.
However, we can't do it alone.
We need to work with business, with local governments, and with foundations.
Louise: That will include non-governmental organisations like the ARK Foundation in Bangladesh.
[Rumana Huque appears on a television screen in a laboratory.]
[Caption says: Rumana Huque.
Executive Director, ARK Foundation.]
Rumana says: Researchers at ARK have excellent skills in engaging with policymakers and different stakeholders to ensure that the research is translated into policy and practise.
Tim says: We bring in our knowledge on subjects like clinical trials and health economics to enhance the research that they are undertaking.
Rebecca says: It's wonderful to work at the University of Leeds in such a supportive environment.
Paul says: The interesting thing about Leeds, and particularly Leeds' approach to research focused on global challenges, is that everybody on campus can get involved in this.
Tim says: Health research at Leeds runs across almost every faculty.
Louise says: What we can do is plug the right people in at the right time to a global challenge.
And that's very powerful.
Tim says: That's what makes University of Leeds such a world leader.
Paul says: What's really great is seeing how our projects are now starting to feed back into the undergraduate and postgraduate curriculum in Leeds.
So not only are we using the material produced as case studies, but increasingly we're seeing our projects as internship opportunities for students to get them involved directly.
Nick says: The University strategy is really exciting because it places people at the heart of everything we do.
This is not just the staff working at Leeds, but also the partners that we work with around the globe.
Building that community of researchers and practitioners will really allow us to have an impact on the world and shape a positive future.
[Caption says: Universal values, global change.
2020 to 2030.]

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/university-news:
The latest stories from the University of Leeds, press office contacts and our news archive.
Visit our University news archive for stories since June 2011.
Search our news archive
Legislation to restrict supermarket sales of foods high in fat, sugar or salt (HFSS) has led to a marked reduction in purchases, according to the first ever independent analysis.
Deforestation in tropical countries could contribute to increased deaths from heat exposure in nearby populations, new research has shown.
The first cohort of students to complete A-levels at Leeds Mathematics School is celebrating outstanding results.
A unique programme supported by the University of Leeds helped launch a landmark performance by thousands of schoolchildren in Bradford this summer.
Applications are open for a unique Masters which takes a multi-faceted look at global health – and gives students the opportunity to collaborate with the World Health Organization.
The University of Leeds has risen seven places to 18th in the 2025 Daily Mail University Guide.
Students are building workplace-ready skills through a global programme focusing on live business projects in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
Explore curated highlights of our research across multiple disciplines, as we collaborate to tackle the world's biggest challenges.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/campusmap:
Accuracy +/- 100 metres

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/about/doc/about-history:
The University of Leeds was founded in 1904, but our origins go back to the nineteenth century with the founding of the Leeds School of Medicine in 1831 and the Yorkshire College of Science in 1874.
In 1831, a group of young men established the Leeds School of Medicine which meant that medical students no longer had to go to Scotland, London or overseas to study.
The Yorkshire College of Science was founded around 40 years later, largely because the wool and textile industries worried that the rapid development of new technologies in Europe posed a threat to the local cloth trade.
For the sons of local families, the Yorkshire College of Science was one of the first colleges for students of all faiths and backgrounds.
The College supported the values of the recently established University College London and Owens College in Manchester.
These colleges had been set up to challenge the exclusivity of Oxford and Cambridge universities, which were predominantly for the Anglican aristocracy and gentry.
By contrast, this new generation of learning institutions welcomed students from all religions, including dissenters, Catholics, Jews and agnostics.
The colleges also focused on meeting the technological demands of the fast-changing Victorian era.
From the beginning, the Yorkshire College of Sciences put its full weight behind scientific studies.
After a few years, it also started to offer courses in classics, modern literature and was renamed the Yorkshire College.
In 1884, the Yorkshire College combined with the Leeds School of Medicine and three years later the two Leeds-based institutions joined forces with Owens College Manchester, and University College Liverpool, to become the federal Victoria University.
It wasn't long before each of the cities started to consider the benefits of forming their own universities.
After Manchester and Liverpool decided to establish universities, Leeds also took the leap and, in 1904, King Edward VII granted the University its own Charter as an independent institution.
Within a few years, the number of students began to increase rapidly and changes to state education meant that students were arriving with a better educational foundation.
The ten years before the outbreak of war in 1914 were ones of growth and consolidation.
Most importantly, the new University of Leeds started to develop the strong tradition of research we are still known for today.
Unlike Owens College Manchester, the Yorkshire College had always allowed women to study there.
However, women did not enrol in significant numbers until special facilities were provided at the Day Training College in 1896.
The first women graduated from the University of Leeds in 1905.
At the time that the University of Leeds received its Royal Charter, seven out of eight students came from Yorkshire.
Now, we welcome students from all over the world as a truly multicultural and international university.
Bestselling writers, Oscar-winning actors, medal-winning Olympians and world-leading scientists from around the globe have all studied at Leeds.
Read about notable alumni .
Since 1904, we have conferred honorary awards on a host of individuals from the worlds of science, art, academia, entertainment and more.
Read about our honorary graduates .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/structure-governance/doc/governance:
The University of Leeds is an independent corporation established by Royal Charter , granted in 1904.
The University's objects, powers and framework of governance are set out in the Charter and its supporting statutes, amendments to which must be approved by the Privy Council.
The University is an ‘exempt charity’ under Schedule 3 of the Charities Act 2011.
The University does not have a registered number issued by the Charities Commission but is in law a charity by Royal Charter.
Our reference number with the charity division of HM Revenue and Customs is X6861.
The Council is the University's governing body.
It consists of 23 people, most of whom are lay members.
Members of the Council are trustees of the University.
The Council is committed to upholding the highest standards of corporate governance, as well as meeting the obligations placed on us as an exempt charity and body in receipt of public funds.
The Council has a responsibility to promote the University's wellbeing and to ensure its sustainability.
Its specific responsibilities include:
The Council meets at least six times a year.
It includes members of staff and student representatives but the majority are lay members (people who are not staff or students at the University).
This includes the Chair of Council and Pro-Chancellor, Alastair da Costa.
Find out more about:
The Senate is responsible to the Council for academic governance and for regulating:
The Senate is chaired by the Vice-Chancellor and President.
It consists of more than 50 members including academic staff and student members.
In addition to its responsibility for academic governance, the Senate has an advisory role extending across most aspects of our work.
The principal committees of the Council are:
Committees of the Senate include:
The University Court has approximately 90 members (the majority are lay-members).
It is chaired by the Chancellor or, in their absence, the Pro-Chancellor.
It is not involved in the University's decision-making processes, but is an important link with the community and other stakeholders, fostering engagement, responsiveness and accountability.
The Court serves as a mechanism for, and symbol of, the University’s accountability to the wider community.
It is empowered to ask questions about, and express an opinion on, anything concerning the University.
It conveys these opinions to the Council, and can invite the Council (or other University bodies) to consider particular questions or courses of action.
It meets at least twice a year: a formal meeting in December and other, informal, meetings.
The Chancellor is an honorary role.
Professor Dame Jane Francis represents the University in a ceremonial and ambassadorial capacity.
Director of the British Antarctic Survey, Jane is a pioneering scientist with international recognition for her study of fossil plants and their use as tools for climate interpretation.
Membership of the University Executive Group (UEG) comprises:
The Vice-Chancellor and President delegates responsibility for specific aspects of the University’s management to the UEG but retains ultimate responsibility for their work.
Executive officers are responsible for the leadership and overall management of corporate services and executive deans are responsible for the management of faculties.
The UEG’s formal terms of reference include:
Find out more about the management responsibilities delegated to the executive group .
Read our annual reports and other policies on our reports, accounts and policies page .
For more information about governance please visit the Governance and Compliance website or by email Helen Pickersgill at h.j.pickersgill@adm.leeds.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/structure-governance/doc/reports-accounts-policies:
This page contains University reports, accounts and policies.
Read about money the University receives, how it is spent and our investment plans in our income and how we spend it report .
Download the University’s annual accounts and reports from our accounts and financial publications page .
View annual reports from the University’s Remuneration Committee, which determines the salaries of the Vice-Chancellor and all Executive direct reports to the Vice-Chancellor.
Our research community is committed to adhering to high ethical standards and the University’s values in order to ensure the integrity of our innovative and high quality research.
As supporters of the UUK Concordat to Support Research Integrity we are committed to:
The University of Leeds Research Ethics Policy and ethical review procedures seek to protect, as far as possible, all groups involved in research including participants, researchers, funders and the University of Leeds throughout the lifespan of the research.
As a university, we may need to process information about our stakeholders including employees, students, alumni and the public for administrative, research and general business purposes.
Our Data Protection Code of Practice (PDF) sets out how we meet our legal obligations under the Data Protection Act to make sure we process and store this information fairly, lawfully and securely and that our stakeholders understand how their data is being used.
Our modern slavery and human trafficking statement informs our students, staff, suppliers, stakeholders and the public about the steps that we have taken, and will take, to mitigate any risk of modern slavery, human trafficking, forced and bonded labour and labour rights violations within our organisation and supply chains.
We carry out research using animals to improve the health and welfare of human beings and animals, to provide a better understanding of the animals themselves, and for educational purposes.
It uses animals only when there are no alternatives, and is firmly committed to the replacement, reduction and refinement of the use of animals in research (the 'three Rs').
Find out more about our animal research .
We are proud to be a Fairtrade university and have been since 2005.
Along with Leeds University Union we sell Fairtrade foods in all shops and food outlets on campus and we're passionate about raising awareness of Fairtrade.
The Fairtrade label guarantees a better deal for disadvantaged producers in the developing world.
We welcome the independent review of university spin-out companies .
The review makes a set of recommendations that aim to improve the speed and efficiency of university spin-out formation and facilitate the development of innovation ecosystems that create more and better spin-out companies.
These recommendations include the adoption of the best practice approach to spin-out creation as set out in the University Spin-Out Investment Terms (USIT) guides .
Read more about our adoption of the independent review of university spin-out companies recommendations.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/about/doc/strategies-values:
Our strategies are rooted in our desire to make a difference in the world.
Our academic strategy for 2020 to 2030 ‘Universal Values, Global Change’, sets a blueprint for a values-driven university that harnesses expertise in research and education to help shape a better future for humanity, working through collaboration to tackle inequalities, benefit society and drive change.
Our values underpin our 10-year strategy and will help us build a fairer future for all.
Through collaboration, we harness our expertise in research and education to advance knowledge, transform lives and shape a better future for our communities, our region and the world.
Working with others, we will use our collective talents, expertise and shared endeavour in research and education to address local and global challenges, achieve social justice, reduce inequalities, and help achieve the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
We will enable our students to thrive through a sense of belonging.
They will be partners in shaping their own dynamic and innovative educational experience, characterised by active learning, digital technologies and collaboration.
Students will feel valued for their unique contribution, and they will graduate equipped to make a difference as true global citizens.
The academic strategy is supported by our Enabling Strategy .
We will organise the University’s intellectual, operational, digital and physical assets to enable our talented, diverse, digitally-literate, collaborative and empowered community to deliver our academic ambition, and underpin our sustainable societal impact.
We believe that every student, staff and other member of our community should be treated with dignity and mutual respect.
We should all be part of a learning and working environment that is free from barriers, regardless of age, caring responsibilities, disabilities, gender reassignment, marriage or civil partnership, pregnancy or maternity status, race, religion or belief, sex and sexual orientation.
As an international, research-intensive university with a strong commitment to student education we will create an inclusive environment that attracts, develops and retains the best students and staff from all backgrounds from across the world and supports them in delivering their ambitions, contributing to our institutional strategic aims.
Read our Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Strategy and find out more on our Equality and Inclusion Unit website .
Find out what progress we are making towards a fairer university through our Access and Student Success Strategy .
The strategy is set out across four pillars of the student lifecycle: Access, Continuation, Attainment and Progression.
Our fifth pillar, Enablers, outlines where we focus our efforts to support the successful delivery of the strategy.
Our access and participation plans set out how we will improve equality of opportunity for underrepresented groups to access, succeed in and progress from higher education.
Sustainability is embedded in our Enabling Strategy and means creating value for society by taking responsibility for our economic, cultural, social and environmental impacts.
Our planet and its population face unprecedented challenges and we have a responsibility to do our part – in terms of our direct impact, our research and in developing our students as global citizens ready to tackle global issues.
We use the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to help frame and guide our activity.
And everything we do is inclusive, making sure everyone’s voice is heard and considered along the way.
Our Climate Plan is an important part of our approach to sustainability, alongside our impact on biodiversity and the environment, how we source and use resources, the way we engage with our community and how we build positive social impact.
Find out more at the Sustainability Service website .
Our Climate Plan, published in 2021, maps out how we will deliver our key commitments for each principle.
It outlines our single biggest investment of £174 million, and sets out exactly how we, as a university community, will play our part in the global effort to address climate change.
It links to the UN Sustainable Development Goals and supports a just transition, by considering the impacts of climate change and our actions for all groups and members of the University and the wider community.
Read our Climate Plan and view updates on delivering our key climate commitments .
We understand that what we do can have an impact on the wider community, which is why we take our social, economic and environmental responsibilities seriously.
The University serves the community in a number of ways:
Find out more about how we engage with the community on our Sustainability website .
The University of Leeds is proud to be an accredited University of Sanctuary, awarded by City of Sanctuary UK in recognition of our commitment to global equity and inclusion.
The University has supported asylum seekers and forced migrants in accessing education since 2018, with more than 30 students able to find sanctuary at Leeds through our Sanctuary Scholarships .
We are a member of the Leeds City of Sanctuary Working Group , and work with our local community through our partnerships with Leeds City Council and third-sector organisations, our cultural resources, and outreach and support for local refugees and asylum seekers pursuing higher education.
Learn more about our welcoming initiatives in support of sanctuary seekers .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/university-executive:
The University Executive Group (UEG) comprises the Vice-Chancellor and President, Provost and Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Pro-Vice-Chancellors, Executive Deans, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief People and Culture Officer and the University Secretary and Registrar.
Professor West is responsible for the leadership, management and financial stewardship of the University and is accountable to its Council.
She chairs the University Senate and UEG and represents the institution.
Professor Yu provides oversight and coordination of the University’s academic strategy and its planning and delivery and leads on the University's international strategy.
Professor Plant leads on the development of the University’s research and innovation strategy, creating a research culture and environment which delivers high quality research and impact.
Professor Kenneth McDowall leads our overall education strategy, ensuring the University attracts, excites and retains high-quality students from a wide range of backgrounds.
Karen provides strategic leadership for faculty alignment, working with colleagues across faculties and professional services to ensure that delivery is coherent, values-led and enables excellence.
Jennifer Sewel is responsible for the University's overall governance, assurance and legal compliance.
Jane Madeley is responsible for Finance and Purchasing, and plays a role in developing the University’s relationships with industry, commerce, public-sector partners and education and research partners.
Rachel Brealey is responsible for University wide operations and service delivery of key corporate and student focussed professional services.
Louise Kindon leads the development and implementation of people and organisational initiatives at Leeds, ensuring people, culture and values are at the heart of University decision-making.
Andrew has a broad humanities research portfolio.
He is Professor of Modern History at the University and a Fellow of both the Royal Historical Society and the Higher Education Academy.
A Professor of Operational Research, Julia holds various leadership roles in her research community.
Her research focuses on developing optimisation models for logistics and transportation.
Paul is a professor in the School of Sociology and Social Policy.
His research is concerned with the relationship between law, human rights and equality.
Paul is the University's LGBT+ Champion.
A Professor of Computational Chemistry, Nora is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry, an elected Fellow of The Learned Society of Wales and elected Member of Academia Europa.
Mark is a British Heart Foundation Professor of Cardiovascular and Diabetes Research and clinical cardiologist with an interest in the mechanisms underlying diabetes related heart disease.
Alan is Professor of Palaeoclimate Modelling.
He is a climate scientist, Fellow of the European Research Council, Philip Leverhulme Prize winner, and a former author for the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/events:
View full list of events
If you wish to submit an event, 
                please complete this event submission form .
The Alan Turing Institute’s special interest group on Data Visualization in partnership with Leeds Institute for Data Analytics (LIDA)
A Leeds Digital Festival event with Leeds Institute for Data Analytics (LIDA)
Join us for an exciting career pathways event for students and early career researchers in health data.
Discover how one day could change your life.
Open Days are the best way to discover what Leeds can offer you.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/term-dates:
The following term and semester dates relate to the general teaching and examination periods at the University.
Dates may differ for some programmes of study, especially postgraduate and Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences programmes.
Terms Autumn term: Monday 29 September to Friday 12 December 2025 Spring term: Monday 12 January to Friday 27 March 2026 Summer term: Monday 27 April to Friday 19 June 2026 Semesters Autumn semester: Teaching begins: Monday 29 September 2025.
Teaching ends: Friday 12 December 2025 Spring semester: Teaching begins: Monday 26 January 2026 (start dates may vary by School).
Teaching ends: Friday 8 May 2026 Introduction week Monday 22 September to Sunday 28 September 2025 International students' orientation week Monday 15 September to Friday 19 September 2025 Examinations Autumn semester: Monday 12 January to Friday 23 January 2026 Spring semester: Monday 18 May to Friday 5 June 2026 To find out when resits are this year, please go to the resits page .
Dates when the University will be closed 24 December 2025 to 1 January 2026 2 to 7 April 2026 4 May 2026 25 to 26 May 2026 31 August to 1 September 2026
For future University key dates see our almanac .
Find out more about services, activities and opportunities to connect with others during the holidays.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/media-relations:
Please contact us for University of Leeds media enquiries, including requests to film, photograph or record audio on campus.
Email the Media Relations team at pressoffice@leeds.ac.uk or call the Media Relations team on +44 (0)771 238 9448 (please note that this number does not receive text messages).
You can also view our news stories and view our statements .
Follow us on BlueSky: @unileedsnews.bsky.social
Ian Rosser – Head of Corporate Communications: email Ian Rosser at i.rosser@leeds.ac.uk
Richard Abbott – Corporate Communications Manager: email Richard Abbott at r.abbott1@leeds.ac.uk
Rebecca Hurrey – Corporate Communications Officer: email Rebecca Hurrey at r.hurrey@leeds.ac.uk
Becky Pascoe – Corporate Communications Officer: email Becky Pascoe at r.pascoe@leeds.ac.uk
Jane Lewis – Corporate Communications Officer: email Jane Lewis via j.lewis3@leeds.ac.uk
The Media Relations team
Email the Media Relations team at pressoffice@leeds.ac.uk
Read more about filming permissions at the University of Leeds
Anna Harrison – Head of External Communications and Campaigns
Email Anna Harrison at a.harrison@leeds.ac.uk
Mia Saunders – External Communications and Campaigns Officer
Email Mia Saunders at m.saunders@leeds.ac.uk
Lauren Ballinger - External Communications and Campaigns Manager
Email Lauren Ballinger at l.ballinger@leeds.ac.uk
Visit the Faculty of Biological Sciences website
Victoria Prest – External Communications and Campaigns Officer
Email Victoria Prest at v.prest@leeds.ac.uk
Visit the Leeds University Business School website
Victoria works Monday to Wednesday.
For urgent enquiries outside of those days, please email the Press Office at pressoffice@leeds.ac.uk .
Morgan Buswell – External Communications and Campaigns Officer
Email Morgan Buswell at m.buswell@leeds.ac.uk
Visit the Faculty of Social Sciences website
Deb Newman – External Communications and Campaigns Officer
Email Deb Newman at d.newman@leeds.ac.uk
Visit the Faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences website
Kersti Mitchell – External Communications and Campaigns Manager
Email Kersti Mitchell at k.mitchell@leeds.ac.uk
Visit the Faculty of Environment website
Victoria Prest – External Communications and Campaigns Officer
Visit the School of Food Science and Nutrition website
Visit the Faculty of Medicine and Health website

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/about/doc/about-contact-us:
This page contains key contact details for the University of Leeds.
If you’re looking for information about our courses and entry requirements, please use Course Search .
Find the contacts for your area of expertise on the Media relations page.
The Digital Communications team can help with making amendments to content on the University of Leeds website .
We can’t answer queries about courses, entry requirements or applications.
To find this information, use Course Search .
For more specific queries, find the relevant contact details in the ‘Applying to study at the University’ section of this page.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/privacy:
Privacy notice for www.leeds.ac.uk .
This privacy notice has been updated in line with the General Data Protection Regulation.
Review cookie settings
This Notice tells you how the University of Leeds (University) will collect and use your personal data when you access this website.
The University is a 'controller' of this personal data for the purposes of the data protection legislation.
Note that additional information will be provided where you are requested to enter personal information and this will vary between our various websites.
(Information will be provided through the relevant privacy notice for that website).
It is important that you read this Notice together with any other privacy notice we provide on specific occasions when we are collecting or processing personal data about you so that you are fully aware of how and why we are using your data.
This Notice supplements the other notices and is not intended to override them.
We keep the information provided in this Notice under review.
This Notice may be updated from time to time.
If we make any substantial updates, we will draw these to your attention.
We will not use your personal data in any manner that is incompatible with the purpose for which the data were collected originally, unless we have obtained your consent to that additional use.
If there is anything you are unclear about, please contact our Data Protection Officer, who will be happy to answer any queries you may have concerning this Notice or the way in which we process your personal data.
The Data Protection Officer's contact details are provided at the end of this Notice in section 11.
Where we request personal data from you on our website you will be informed at that time of the purpose for which the data will be processed and how it will be processed, its legal basis for processing as well as any transfers to third parties.
When you access our web pages certain information your browser provides, including your IP address at the time, browser type, and potentially the address of the page you last visited, will be automatically recorded by the University.
This data may be used to aid detection in the event of a security breach.
The legal basis for this processing is a necessity to pursue our legitimate interests to keep our website secure.
The University retains this data in a form from which you may be identifiable for a period of up to one month.
The personal data that you have provided will not routinely be sent to third parties (unless notified - see section 4).
The University works with third party partners (Boundless Learning and Coursera) who handle admissions enquiries and recruitment for some of our 100% online distance learning postgraduate courses.
If you submit an enquiry through the online form published on the associated course pages, our partner organisation will use your personal data to respond to your enquiry, and provide you with information on relation opportunities, if you opt-in to receive them.
If you choose to apply for the course, your data will be entered into the University’s application system so we can consider your application.
These partners are only allowed to use your data in accordance with the strict instructions of the University.
Neither partner will use your data in any other way nor will they share it with any other organisation.
The University’s policies on retaining data for prospective and current students, staff and job applicants are detailed in our Data Retention Schedule .
In other cases, for example, if you subscribe to news or events, any retention of data will be made clear at the point of collection.
You can use the cookie settings pop-up — the ‘review cooking settings’ button on this page — to manage your cookies.
Cookies are small text files that are placed on your device by websites that you visit.
We use cookies for the following purposes:
These cookies help our website function:
_clck _clsk CLID ANONCHK MR MUID SM
These cookies help us understand how visitors use our website.
They track when someone lasy visited our website and the order they have looked at different webpages.
We use this information to make improvements to our website.
Some of these cookies remember if the user has accepted cookies.
These cookies help us understand how people use our website so we can make improvements.
They collect anonymous information about the pages a person visits and the order they use them.
Some of these cookies remember if a visitor has accepted or declined cookies.
If you share content from our website through other websites, for example Facebook or X, cookies or a form of tracking may be used by these services and you need to manage your privacy via your account (and not through our site).
You can opt out of non-essential cookies: use the cookie settings pop-up — the ‘review cooking settings’ button on this page — to manage your choices.
You can also manage your privacy settings, including cookies, through your browser settings.
Further information about cookies can be found on the Information Commissioner's Office website .
It is important that the personal data the University holds about you is accurate and current.
Please keep us informed if the personal data you have provided to us needs to be updated.
Contact details for the University .
Under the GDPR , in certain circumstances, you have the right to:
If you have any queries or concerns relating to this privacy notice or the way your data is being processed through this website then please contact the University’s Data Protection Officer, Rebecca Messenger-Clark.
The UK’s regulator for the Data Protection Act (DPA) and GDPR is the Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO).
The University is registered as a Data Controller with the ICO .
Should you be dissatisfied with our handling of your concerns you have the right to complain to a supervisory authority.
In the case of the UK this is the Information Commissioner’s Office .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/about/doc/accessibility-statement:
This accessibility statement applies to the University of Leeds digital estate.
This includes:
This website and the rest of the digital estate are run by the University of Leeds, in some cases in collaboration with third parties.
We aim to resolve as many of the accessibility issues listed on this page as soon as possible.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use our digital estate.
Our plan of work to improve accessibility means, ultimately, you should be able to:
We are also working to make the text across our digital estate as simple as possible to understand.
While we are working actively to resolve the accessibility issues with our relevant websites and services, AbilityNet has advice that may make our digital properties more usable in their current state.
The University of Leeds is committed to providing an inclusive environment, and to ensuring digital accessibility for people with disabilities.
We are continually improving the user experience for everyone, and we are working to apply the relevant accessibility standards.
We know some parts of our digital estate are not fully accessible:
Issues from across the digital estate are listed in full, grouped by site type, under the heading ‘Non-compliance with the accessibility regulations’.
Any issues that we can’t fix and are exempt from solving are listed under the heading ‘Content that’s not within the scope of the accessibility regulations’.
If you need information from this digital estate in a different format like accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording or braille, please contact IT Services:
We’ll consider your request and get back to you as soon as we can.
We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of our digital estate.
If you find any problems not listed in this statement or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, contact IT Services with the URL of the page and the issue you’ve identified:
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your concerns, you can contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
If you have any specific questions, details for different sections of the University are listed on our contact page .
Our Campus Directory is an accessible, text-based alternative to our interactive campus map .
More information about access to our campus is available in information for disabled visitors .
The University of Leeds is committed to making its digital estate accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
The digital estate is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.2 AA standard , due to the non-compliances and exemptions listed below.
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons.
The following are detailed lists, grouped by website type, of parts of our digital estate that are not compliant with the accessibility regulations.
The groupings list the relevant sites, and each non-compliance notes on which of those sites that issue appears.
The sites covered here are a representative sample of the full University web estate.
See our Mobile app accessibility statements page for information about the compliance of rest of our digital estate.
We are always working to improve our digital estate and resolve accessibility issues by working with internal teams and external suppliers to address non-compliances.
These non-compliances apply to the main University of Leeds site – leeds.ac.uk.
There may be rare instances where images have non-descriptive alt text or be missing alternative test.
This can cause confusion for screen reader users or mean they miss information.
This fails WCAG 2.2 success criterion 1.1.1 Non-text Content (Level A).
Where this has been found to be an issue with third-party content, we have asked for this to be addressed, subject to the provider’s timelines.
For University-owned content, we look to resolve individual instances within four weeks of initial publication.
There are unlabelled form fields and cases where the form label is not linked correctly to the form element.
On the ‘Staff A-Z’ page there is a form field ambiguously labelled ‘Search’.
This may make it difficult for some assistive technology users to successfully submit information.
This fails WCAG 2.2 success criteria 1.3.5 Identify Input Purpose (Level AA), 2.5.3 Label in Name (Level A), 3.3.2 Labels or Instructions (Level A).
For internal pages, this issue is part of our backlog and we hope to have it addressed in 2026.
The ‘Undergraduate open days’ page contains a form with mandatory form fields denoted by a red asterisk.
These mandatory markings are hard to see.
Furthermore, there is no explanation of what the asterisk means.
This will frustrate a screen reader user.
This fails WCAG 2.2 success criteria 1.3.5 Identify Input Purpose (Level AA) and 3.3.2 Labels or Instructions (Level A).
This has been found to be an issue with third-party content.
We have asked for this to be addressed, subject to the provider’s timelines.
On the ‘Staff A-Z’ page when a user performs a search, the results are in the form of data table that sometimes has empty data cells.
This will make it difficult for screen reader users to understand the content.
This fails WCAG 2.2 success criterion 1.3.1 Info and Relationships (Level A).
This issue is part of our backlog and we hope to have it addressed before the end of 2025.
Some embedded content is in a frame that does not contain a descriptive title.
When a screen reader user needs to know the purpose and content of a frame.
For internal pages, we hope to have the issue addressed before the end of 2025.
Some downloadable documents, such as PDFs, available on the site have issues that will prevent some users some accessing their content.
This fails WCAG 2.2 success criteria such as 1.1.1 Non-text Content (Level A), 1.3.1 Info and Relationships (Level A), 1.3.2 Meaningful Sequence (Level A), 2.4.2 Page Titled (Level A), and 3.1.1 Language of Page (Level A).
Some of these PDFs have accessible alternative documents or web pages containing the same content.
For University-owned content, we look to resolve instances of non-compliance within four weeks of initial publication.
There are combinations of colours that fall below the minimum contrast levels that make the text difficult to read.
This fails WCAG 2.2 success criterion 1.4.3 Contrast (Minimum) (Level AA).
Where this has been found to be an issue with third-party content, we have asked for this to be addressed, subject to the provider’s timelines.
When increasing the size of the text on the ‘Undergraduate open days’ page, the size of the text within the drop-down boxes does not increase.
Small text can be difficult to read for certain people.
This fails WCAG 2.2 success criterion 1.4.4 Resize text (Level AA).
Visible keyboard focus is sometimes lost when tabbing backward through the student stories on the University homepage.
People who rely on keyboard navigation may struggle to move around some parts of the site.
This fails WCAG 2.2 success criterion 2.4.7 Focus Visible (Level AA).
The NVDA screen reader doesn’t announce some parts of the student stories on the University homepage.
NVDA users will not hear the headings and body text associated with each sotry, but can continue to pages for the full student stories to receive all the relevant information.
A fix has been identified and will be implemented by Q4 2025.
Other screen readers, such as VoiceOver and Narrator, announce all the relevant content.
A digital accessibility audit of the main University site was delivered in July 2022.
The site is also regularly scanned by an accessibility monitoring tool and new updates and functionality subject to accessibility testing.
Any non-compliances on the main University website will be addressed as soon as possible or as described in this statement.
These non-compliances apply to the following sites and URLs:
The Students and Wellbeing, Safety and Health sites have been updated to a compliant codebase, however some content-based non-compliances may remain.
Dates for when the remaining sites will be addressed haven’t been determined yet.
The Students website was moved onto the University’s compliant Design System in February 2025.
Addressing the code-level issues on these sites is subject to several factors.
However, additional work to address content-level non-compliances will be increased during Q3 and Q4 2025.
These non-compliances apply to the public-facing IT site, it.leeds.ac.uk.
The IT site is underpinned by a third-party platform, ServiceNow.
This means the University has limited control of some of the features and their compliance.
However, we are maintaining a dialogue with the vendor with a view to achieving full compliance in those areas.
The features that are in the University’s control and aren’t compliant will be addressed by the University and a third-party supplier as soon as possible.
As all sites are owned by the University but controlled by third-party suppliers, the University will address these non-compliances with the suppliers with the expectation that all problems could be resolved by 2026.
Design System work for the Accommodation site has been completed but implementing this on the live site has been delayed.
The Careers site uses a third-party browser-based system that isn’t controlled by the University but was subject to accessibility improvements in 2024.
The Application site is partly controlled by the University in collaboration with a third-party supplier, and subject to limitations of the system on which it is built.
It has been subject to accessibility testing with some improvements likely to be made in 2025.
Other sites in this group will be updated as soon as we are able.
An update of the University-branded WordPress theme was applied to several hundred sites between Q1 and Q3 2023 with the aim to achieve compliance with WCAG 2.1 AA.
This solved all code-based issues.
However, the release of WCAG 2.2 in October 2023 resulted in some new non-compliances.
These code-related non-compliances will be addressed when the WordPress theme is next refreshed.
All the following non-compliances apply to the University Declaration Portal.
All issues are on our backlog with fixes and were expected to be implemented by the end of Q1 2025.
Users who struggle, or think they may struggle, to use the platform should contact the University Declaration Portal team by email via udp@leeds.ac.uk for assistance.
Some icons and images do not have a text-based alternative.
Some information may be lost for people who are blind or have low vision.
Keyboard focus order is not always in a consistent, logical and intuitive sequence.
This is likely to cause confusion for keyboard and assistive technology users.
This fails WCAG 2.2 success criterion 2.4.3 Focus Order (Level A).
On some screens it is possible to tab to controls that aren’t visible.
When tabbing after opening a pop-up or form, users can navigate behind the window without explicitly dismissing it.
As these sites are owned by the University but controlled by third-party suppliers or via a third-party codebase, the University will address these non-compliances with the suppliers with the expectation that all problems could be resolved by 2026.
We know there are University mobile applications that are not fully compliant with WCAG 2.2 AA guidelines.
See our ‘Mobile app accessibility statements’ page to better understand the accessibility of this part of the University’s digital estate.
We are always taking steps to reduce the number of PDFs and other office file formats we provide digitally – opting to create web pages instead where possible.
Any new PDFs or Word documents we publish are intended to meet accessibility standards.
We have provided guidance on how to create accessible content , as well as accessibility checklists to use when producing Word and PowerPoint documents, as well as a suite of general accessibility guidance to help staff meet accessibility standards when publishing new documents.
Teaching staff also have access to Blackboard Ally, which helps them provide more accessible learning materials through Minerva and automatically gives students access to files in multiple formats, such as html, mp3 audio and braille.
Inaccessible documents may remain live where an accessible alternative is also available.
Some of our PDFs and Word documents published before 23 September 2018 are essential to providing our services and are in scope of the accessibility regulations.
For example, the web estate may contain some PDFs with important education information, and forms published as Word documents.
We have and are working to either fix these, replace them with accessible HTML pages, or create replacement Microsoft Forms that meet accessibility standards.
Although effort has been made to address non-compliant documents, some may remain.
Our digital estate contains thousands of PDFs and other documents created over several decades.
These include things like past exam papers, posters intended for printing and forms.
Many of our older PDFs and Word documents do not meet accessibility standards.
For example, they may not be structured so they’re accessible to a screen reader.
This does not meet WCAG 2.2 success criterion 4.1.2 Name, Role, Value (Level A).
The accessibility regulations do not require us to fix PDFs or other documents published before 23 September 2018 if they’re not essential to providing our services.
For example, we do not plan to fix our art trail.
Inaccessible PDFs may remain live where an accessible web page accessible alternative document version is also available.
We haven’t added text and audio alternatives to all our time-based media published before 23 September 2020 because this is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations.
Some non-live audio and video content does not have a descriptive text transcript or audio description.
This will make it harder for blind or partially sighted people to access information in this media content.
This fails WCAG 2.2 success criterion 1.2.1 Audio-only and Video-only (Prerecorded) (Level A).
Some non-live video does not have synchronised captions.
It will be harder for Deaf/deaf people and those who are hard of hearing to access information in this media content.
This fails WCAG 2.2 success criterion 1.2.2 Captions (Prerecorded) (Level A).
We have worked, and will continue to work, to ensure pre-recorded media published from 23 September 2020 is provided with transcriptions, captions and/or audio description as appropriate.
Recordings of teaching provided via digital education systems offers some capacity for closed captions.
For example, video captures of timetabled lectures conducted via Mediasite and Blackboard Collaborate Ultra are processed for automated closed captioning.
Manual closed captions can be added to recordings of sessions conducted via Blackboard Collaborate Ultra and recordings of ad-hoc teaching through Mediasite.
Disability Services can support students with disabilities who require closed captions on recordings.
Disability Services can be contacted via phone, email, or in person:
It’s possible some of our live time-based media, such as video streams, do not have synchronized captions.
This fails WCAG 2.2 success criterion 1.2.4 Captions (Live) (Level AA).
Technologies used by the University, such as Microsoft Teams, do provide automatic captioning although we recognise these aren’t always accurate.
Work towards adding captions to live video streams may not always be prioritised because live video is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations .
Our online maps are not all accessible.
The regulations do not apply to online maps as long as the essential information they contain is provided in an accessible format for maps intended for navigational use.
You can also find information about access on campus in our information for disabled visitors .
We know that some of the third-party content included in our digital estate is not accessible.
The accessibility regulations do not apply to third-party content that is not funded, developed, or controlled by the University, and many of these sites have their own accessibility statements.
The searchBOX finder tool allows users to search for third-party accessibility statements.
This also extends to some PDFs and other office file formats available throughout our estate.
We will work with our suppliers to make sure they know about any accessibility issues we find.
See our Third-party accessibility statements page and the ‘Accessibility Statements for Digital Education Systems’ page to better understand the accessibility of these parts of the University’s digital estate.
On the Careers site, when a reCAPTCHA expires, there is no ability to extend the timeout before it occurs, but users can reselect the ‘I’m not a robot’ checkbox to re-verify their session.
However, screen reader users are unable to access the ‘Verification expired.
Check the checkbox again’ expiry notice at all; they will be unaware verification has expired.
This fails WCAG 2.2 2.2.1 Timing Adjustable (Level A) and 3.3.1 Error Identification (Level A).
As this functionality is necessary for security, the reCAPTCHA cannot be removed.
As the reCAPTCHA is controlled by a third party, neither Stonefish nor the University can apply a fix.
Due to this being third-party content, not funded or controlled by the University, it falls under the exemptions permitted by regulations.
On the Careers site, the white text inside the Facebook ‘Share’ button at the end of job vacancy pages has a contrast ratio of 4.23:1 against the button’s blue background.
As this doesn’t meet the 4.5:1 ratio, this text may be harder to perceive for some users.
As the share button is controlled by a third party, neither Stonefish nor the University can apply a fix.
Our Library website has lots of images of our archives that have not yet been transcribed, and we do not yet have a way to extract the text from all our manuscripts and other heritage items efficiently.
Our online archives are not fully accessible, and fail almost all testing with accessibility tools.
The accessibility requirements do not apply to heritage items that cannot be made fully accessible for this reason.
However, we are working to make sure our online library and archive websites are fully accessible and have enough data to help you find what you need.
We also work with the Royal National Institute of Blind People (RNIB) to provide a transcription service .
Our web estate contains many websites and sections of websites we consider to be archived.
Government accessibility regulations define an archived website as one that only contains content not needed for active administrative processes and is not updated or edited after 23 September 2019.
The regulations state we do not need to fix archived websites.
Our accessibility roadmap, How we’re improving accessibility , shows how and when we plan to improve accessibility across the digital estate.
This statement was first prepared on 12 September 2019.
It was last reviewed on 22 August 2025.
The University of Leeds hosts over 2,000 websites and applications.
Testing of all these areas of the estate is part of continual effort to improve digital accessibility throughout.
A test of the University of Leeds digital estate was conducted between August and September 2019 by a third-party auditor, Accenture.
Some of the non-compliances in this statement are informed by that report where sites haven’t substantially changed since this time.
To test our compliance with the WCAG 2.1 Conformance Level AA Guidelines, we chose a sample of these websites and applications based on factors such as how many people use the product and how often, how important it is, and where it is in the student journey.
Between 5 August and 6 September 2019, we tested our main website and a range of websites, applications, and mobile applications.
We selected 61 applications, and the auditor tested a subset of pages (two, three, or four) from each application.
Large, third-party applications had their accessibility statements used to document their compliance levels.
We selected 82 websites.
The auditor tested each website’s home page and a subset of pages within each website.
The auditor also tested seven mobile applications.
All products were tested against the WCAG 2.1 AA Guidelines, and using three assistive technologies:
We used these tests to make an overall assessment about the University of Leeds’ websites and applications and to prioritise how we make them compliant.
A digital accessibility audit of the main University site, and select other websites, was completed by Shaw Trust and delivered in July 2022.
We are addressing all of the issues (see the earlier heading ‘Non-compliance with the accessibility regulations’).
A combination of automated evaluation tools and pan-disability user testing with assistive technologies was used to conduct a comprehensive accessibility audit.
Testing was performed to WCAG 2.1 AA conformance.
A representative sample of the website was tested along with some specific pages requested by the University.
The testers used multiple browsers, browser tools and assistive technologies in an aim to locate issues.
They then reported their findings and provided constructive feedback to help pinpoint and provide solutions to accessibility barriers.
Internal digital accessibility testing formed part of the development process of a new version of the IT site.
An updated theme applied to the University’s WordPress estate in 2023 was tested to ensure it met WCAG 2.1 AA before implementation.
A test of the Leeds International Medieval Conference website was completed by Shaw Trust and delivered in 2023.
In May, an internal accessibility audit was conducted on the Careers at the University of Leeds website, testing it against WCAG 2.2 AA.
A representative sample of pages were assessed using automated, guided and manual testing.
This included the use of assistive technologies across desktop and mobile devices.
A series of issues were identified and most of these resolved in June 2024.
Remaining issues either have dates for when they are expected to be resolved, or are exempt under regulations.
However the University is working to mitigate the impact to users of issues regarded to be exempt.
A high-profile portion of the University’s digital estate is monitored against some WCAG 2.2 AA criteria by an automated digital accessibility tool that is regularly checked.
Valid issues inform parts of this statement.
Digital accessibility testing forms part of the development process for the University’s Design System used by, and planned for use by, several sites.
This ensures new patterns meet WCAG 2.2 AA.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/termsandconditions:
University of Leeds Website Terms of Use, last updated 29 June 2023
These terms and conditions of use (‘Terms’) refer to your use of the official website of the University of Leeds (‘University’, ‘our’, ‘we’, ‘us’) and all other websites either within the leeds.ac.uk domain or owned and/or operated and/or contributed to by the University of Leeds regardless of the domain (‘website(s)’) unless specifically excluded or modified by the terms and conditions on any specific website.
By using, or contributing to, our websites you agree to these Terms.
If you do not agree to be legally bound by these Terms please stop using our websites immediately.
Where these Terms may be linked from websites other than those owned and/or operated by the University within which the University may publish content they must be read in conjunction with any terms of use published by those websites.
The University reserves the right to change these Terms at any time and will highlight this fact by a change in the date at the top of these Terms.
You should review these Terms on a regular basis to ensure that you are aware of any changes made as you will be legally bound by any amended Terms if you continue to use our websites after the changes.
The University does try to ensure that all information on its websites is accurate.
If you find inaccurate information please let us know by using the contact link at the bottom of the web page concerned.
The University gives no warranty or assurance about the content or reliability of its websites.
As our websites are under constant development content may be out of date or incorrect and subject to change without notice.
Websites are not guaranteed to be available, outages may occur.
While the University endeavours to ensure that the content of its websites are accurate, we cannot accept liability for the accuracy of any content at any particular time.
The University endeavours to ensure that its computer infrastructure is error and virus free but does not warrant that any material available for downloading from its websites will be free of errors or malicious code.
Where our websites contain links to other sites or resources provided by third parties those links are provided for information only.
The University has no control over the contents of those sites or resources and accepts no responsibility for them or for any loss or damage that may arise from your use of them.
The University is not responsible for the privacy or security of any information you may send to such sites.
You may be subject to applicable terms of use when you enter those sites.
In no event shall the University or any of its agents, employees and sub-contractors be liable to any party for any of the following losses or damages (whether such losses be foreseen, foreseeable, known or otherwise): loss of data, loss of revenue or anticipated profits, loss of business, loss of opportunity, loss of goodwill or injury to reputation, loss suffered by third parties, any direct, indirect, special, incidental, or consequential loss or damages arising out of use of its websites or reliance on any material or services provided by the websites or accessed through them, whether or not amended by third parties and regardless of form of action.
Where we make available third party content we are a distributor and not a publisher of that content.
Any opinions, advice, services, statements, or other information made available by us in this way are of those third parties and not of us.
Unless otherwise stated by us we do not endorse nor are we responsible for the accuracy or reliability of any opinion, advice or statement made on our websites.
Information on our websites is not intended to address your particular requirements.
Such information does not constitute any form of advice or recommendation by us and is not intended to be relied upon by you in any way.
Nothing in these Terms is intended to exclude the University's liability for death or personal injury caused by the University's proven negligence or fraudulent misrepresentation.
Our websites contain copyright material, trade names and marks and other proprietary information, including, but not limited to, text, software, photographs and graphics and other digital media (‘Content’).
The Content is protected by copyright law, trademark law, database rights and other intellectual property rights.
Except where otherwise expressly stated on our websites, the University, its licensors, or authorised contributors own the copyright, database rights and other intellectual property rights in the selection, coordination, arrangement and enhancement of such Content, as well as in the Content original to it.
You may not modify, publish, transmit, participate in the transfer or sale of, create derivative works from, or in any other way exploit, any of the Content, in whole or in part except as provided in these Terms or any licence relating to that Content or where expressly permitted under copyright law.
In the event of any permitted copying, redistribution or publication of Content, no changes in or deletion of author attribution, trademark legend or copyright notice shall be made unless expressly permitted by the terms of the licence.
Where you download and use Content from our websites you acknowledge that you do not acquire any ownership rights by downloading that Content except where this is explicitly granted by the licence.
Where we may lodge Content on websites other than our own you agree that your access to and use of any such Content is at your risk governed by these Terms and also those terms and conditions set out by the website which you are accessing.
Where Content has been provided for the purposes of learning you may use that Content for your own academic research, study, learning and teaching purposes only.
Where you are providing material (‘Contribution’) as a member of staff or a student of the University or otherwise employed by or contracted to the University to provide such a Contribution the University will generally own this content in accordance with the University’s Policy on Intellectual Property Rights (PDF) .
None of the Terms in this section below supersede any part of that Policy.
Where you are providing a Contribution in a role other than that covered in (4.1) you grant the University a perpetual, non-exclusive, world-wide, royalty-free licence to copy, reproduce, modify, publish, broadcast, transmit, display, perform, create derivative works from, translate, make available to the public, and exercise all copyright and publicity rights with respect to your Contribution in any media for the full term of any rights that may exist in your Contribution.
In any event where you submit any Contribution to our websites:
a.
You warrant that your Contribution:
i.
is your own original work or you have a licence from the copyright owner(s) of the work granting the University use of the work on the terms of the foregoing licence granted by you
ii.
does not infringe or breach anyone else’s rights, which includes your having obtained sufficient rights (by written permission/licence or consents as appropriate) for the University to exercise the foregoing licence granted by you
- from rights holders of third party copyright materials that you may have included in your Contribution in whole or in part, and
- from all identifiable persons in any audio or visual media that you may have included in your Contribution including parental/legal guardian consent for those under 18 and for those who are vulnerable adults.
iii.
is not defamatory, libellous, obscene, menacing, threatening, offensive, abusive, fraudulent, criminal or in any way illegal;
iv.
is accessible;
v.
does not advertise or market anything in any way other than where it is the University’s business to do so;
vi.
does not link to material which you know to contravene (iii);
b.
You agree at all times to follow any specific rules of posting which may appear on our websites.
c.
Save where covered under the Policy on Intellectual Property Rights you agree to indemnify and keep us indemnified on demand against all legal fees, damages and other expenses that may be incurred by us as a result of your breach of the above warranty.
d.
Save where covered under the Policy on Intellectual Property Rights you agree to waive any moral rights in your Contribution for the purposes of its submission to and publication on our websites and all of the purposes specified above to the fullest extent permitted by law.
We reserve the right to identify you to other third parties as the author of your contribution.
You must not misuse our websites by knowingly introducing viruses, trojans, worms, logic bombs or other malicious material or technology or by attacking our websites or their servers via denial-of-service attacks or other malicious activities.
We reserve the right to report any such breach to the relevant law enforcement authorities and in such an event we will fully cooperate with such authorities by disclosing your identity to them.
In the event of such a breach your right to use our websites will cease immediately.
The names, designs, trademarks and logos used in and displayed on our websites are registered and unregistered trademarks and/or designs of the University of Leeds.
You must not use these names, designs, trademarks or logos without prior permission.
Please email any trademarks enquiries to trademarks@leeds.ac.uk .
No e-mail addresses or other identifying information may be taken from our websites and used for the purposes of sending unsolicited communications (eg junk mail).
We reserve the right to edit or remove any Contribution from our websites at any time and without notice and whether or not such a Contribution contravenes any of these Terms.
However, we have no obligation to do so.
Where a Contribution is removed we shall in no way be liable for any loss, liability, cost or expense suffered by you as a result.
Where we create links from our websites to any other website we shall have the right to remove these without notice.
In the event that such a link is removed we shall in no way be liable for any loss, liability, cost or expense suffered by you as a result.
We wish to ensure that all content made available via our websites is lawful.
If you believe that any of our websites hold material for which you are rights holder and where you have not granted permission or permission is not automatic by way of national or international law please contact us by emailing the Digital Communications team at webcomms@leeds.ac.uk detailing your concerns.
Please use the subject ‘Notice and takedown request’ and include the following information:
We may disable access to the material in question while we assess your objection.
If the material was supplied to us by a third party we may need to contact them as part of our enquiries.
We reserve the right not to disclose the details of authors.
Your right to privacy is important to us.
The ways in which your personal information may be used when you provide it to us is defined in the Privacy Notice associated with each of our websites which we own and/or operate that you may visit.
Please review the relevant Privacy Notice which will be clearly marked on each of our websites in line with our Policy on Privacy and Cookie Notices .
Should you find that any of our websites has no Privacy Notice or the Notice is invalid please email the URL of that website to the University's Data Protection Officer, Rebecca Messenger-Clark, at dpo@leeds.ac.uk .
The University complies with the General Data Protection Regulation 2018 and Data Protection Act 1998.
Please see our Code of Practice on Data Protection (PDF) .
You are solely responsible in all respects for all use of and for protecting the confidentiality of any access codes, username and password (‘access credentials’) that may be given to you or selected by you for use on our websites.
You may not share these with or transfer them to any third party.
Where access credentials have been provided to you as a member of staff or a student of the University use of these is covered by the University’s Information Security Policies .
You must notify us immediately of any unauthorised use of your access credentials or any other breach of security regarding our websites that comes to your attention.
Please email IT via itservicedesk@leeds.ac.uk .
You may link to our websites provided you do so in a way that is fair and legal and does not damage our reputation or take advantage of it, but you must not establish a link in such a way as to suggest any form of association, approval or endorsement on our part where none exists.
Our websites or any part thereof must not be framed on any other site without our permission.
We reserve the right to withdraw linking permission without notice.
Nothing in this agreement requires us to maintain the existence of, or the content within, any URL you may link to.
The only permanent URL which we provide is www.leeds.ac.uk .
These Terms form the whole agreement between you and us.
You acknowledge that you have not entered into this agreement in reliance upon any warranty or representation made by us or any other person and you waive any rights to damages or rescission you may have for misrepresentation (other than fraudulent misrepresentation) that is not contained in this agreement.
Nothing in these Terms is intended to nor shall it confer any benefit on a third party whether under the Contracts (Right of Third Parties) Act 1999 or otherwise.
You may not assign or transfer your rights under these Terms of use without our prior written permission.
Our failure at any time to enforce any right we may have does not result in waiver of such right.
If any of these Terms of use should be determined to be illegal, invalid or otherwise unenforceable by reason of the laws of any country in which these terms of use are intended to be effective, then to the extent and within that jurisdiction in which that term of use is illegal, invalid or unenforceable, it shall be severed and deleted from these terms of use and the remaining terms of use shall survive and remain in full force and effect and continue to be binding and enforceable.
The University does accept service by email to the University's legal adviser, a.slater@adm.leeds.ac.uk .
Formal legal notices should be sent by post to:
Legal Adviser Governance and Compliance University of Leeds Leeds LS2 9JT UK
These Terms and all questions of construction, interpretation, validity and performance under these Terms of use including non-contractual disputes or claims shall be governed by English law and subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the English courts.
Further information on these Terms or your privacy can be obtained by contacting the Data Protection Officer, Rebecca Messenger-Clark:
The University's main contact details are:
Company no.
RC000658 VAT no.
GB613451470
There are additional terms and conditions for on-site work.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/freedom-of-information:
Under the Freedom of Information Act 2000, you have the right to request information from the University of Leeds.
Find out what you need to do, what you can expect from us and any exemptions to that right of access.
A wide range of information about the University of Leeds is already published online, so you may not need to make a FOI request.
You may find it helpful to look at:
We also publish information as part of our publication scheme , which includes some of information listed above, plus our annual report and accounts, expense data, research we fund and details of our staff and structure.
Email the Freedom of Information officer via foi@leeds.ac.uk .
Information published on the University website is free to access in that format.
This is subject to any copyright restrictions as noted in our legal notices .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/about/doc/modern-slavery-annual-statement:
This statement is made in accordance with section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
It informs our students, staff, suppliers, stakeholders, community, and the public about the steps that we have taken, and will take, to mitigate any risk of modern slavery, human trafficking, forced and bonded labour and labour rights violations within our organisation and supply chains.
This statement covers the 12-month period to 31 July 2024.
We monitor and categorise concerns reported to us (either via our Whistleblowing procedure or any other channel).
There were no allegations of potential modern slavery in 2023-24.
The University of Leeds is an independent corporation established by Royal Charter, granted in 1904 and is globally renowned for the quality of its teaching and research.
The University is one of the largest higher education institutions in the UK with more than 40,000 students, over 10,000 staff and a turnover of £985 million (2022-23).
Governed by its Council, the University is committed to meeting its social, economic, and environmental responsibilities.
Driven by its values of collaboration, compassion, inclusivity and integrity, the University is unswerving in its commitment to meeting the requirements of the Act and will take all reasonable steps to ensure that modern slavery or human trafficking does not occur in any part of our organisation or supply chains.
In 2022, the University set out its Policy on Responsible Investment (PDF) explaining the commitment to ensuring the University in which it invests adopt high ethical standards and responsible attitudes towards the environment and human rights.
The University’s Financial Policy and Guidelines govern the procurement of goods, works and services.
We are committed to sustainable procurement and our approach to delivering this is set out in our Sustainable Procurement Standard and associated Sustainable Procurement Procedure, both part of our Environmental Management System .
We have developed our approach to sustainable procurement using the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) Flexible Framework for Sustainable Procurement in Government and have self-assessed to Level 4.
The University is a member of the “The University Caterers Organisation” (TUCO), the “North East Universities Purchasing Consortium” (NEUPC), and “The Energy Consortium” (TEC), all of which are members of “UK Universities Purchasing Consortia” (UKUPC).
NEUPC, TUCO, and TEC have all published their own Modern Slavery Act 2015 (Transparency in Supply Chains) Statements.
The University has adopted a continual improvement approach to monitoring its supply chains and through the appointment of a Sustainable Procurement Specialist will continue to collaborate with suppliers to gain a greater understanding of the source of supply.
Following the introduction of the Modern Slavery Act 2015, the University updated all procurement documentation and processes to enable more initiative-taking steps to investigate and act upon any indications of Modern Slavery evidenced in the supply chains upon which we rely.
Before the University awards contracts of significant value, suppliers must confirm compliance with the Act, and confirm that they will support our ambitions in this regard.
The University appointed a Sustainable Procurement Manager to deliver continuous improvement in the approach of Purchasing through:
The University takes a category-led approach to procurement.
Our categories include:
The University’s Purchasing and Sustainability Services facilitate the delivery of sustainable procurement through the category management process, seeking continuous improvement.
The University has assessed each category in terms of risk against sustainability good practice, including the consideration of human rights issues and risks in the supply chains.
The Purchasing team review risk levels annually with consideration to changes in markets, risks and geo-political issues.
Analysis of our supply chains in relation to the Act focuses on the first-tier supplier base.
The categories identified as likely to bear the greatest risk in first-tier supply are Hard Facilities Management, Construction and Soft Facilities Management (including catering and cleaning services).
We are aware that these categories often rely on lower paid workers to deliver the service and are sectors where modern forms of slavery may be more likely to occur.
The University’s suppliers operating in these industries have been categorised into thirty-one tiered sub-groups to facilitate a more targeted approach to both sourcing and management.
Other high-risk areas include IT and Laboratory products, owing to the complexity of the supply chains within these industries and the wide range of components and hazardous materials used in manufacturing.
The University is a member of both national and sector-specific groups such as Electronics Watch, which helps to mitigate and manage human rights violations in our IT supply chains.
The University is working with Electronics Watch conducting product reviews, prioritising high volume items, to improve supply chain transparency and identify any concerns requiring intervention.
Electronics Watch use their expertise and resources to undertake these checks and lead interventions within supply chains to ensure best outcomes for those at risk.
The University also uses the NETpositive Supplier Engagement Tool which helps suppliers to create and update sustainability commitments including monitoring and addressing Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking risks in their supply chain.
The University’s commitment to securing the rights of our staff is set out in our institutional People and Culture policies and procedures.
Key People and Culture policies of relevance to the Modern Slavery Act are:
The University is committed to raising awareness of the risks of modern slavery and human trafficking in our organisation and supply chains.
The University delivered Social Value training to its procurement team in 2020-21 and further training on Protecting Human Rights in the Supply Chain in 2022-23.
We built on this in 2023-2024 by inviting a local Detective Sergeant to our Purchasing forum to deliver a training session on Modern Slavery and Trafficking.
The session included an overview of particularly vulnerable groups, definitions as laid out in the Act, types of exploitation, the warning signs, as well as highlighted industries of increased risk.
This face-to-face session brought real, tangible examples that were directly relatable to our team’s work, highlighting the critical importance of thorough due diligence in procurement.
It illustrated the risks and vulnerabilities specific to the supply chains we engage with and emphasised the practical steps we can take to mitigate those risks.
The training also reinforced the significance of understanding and utilising reporting and whistleblowing procedures, ensuring that our team is equipped to act swiftly and effectively if any concerns arise.
To further enhance our understanding of modern slavery and human trafficking risks, all category team members are either working towards, or are CIPS-qualified; follow the CIPS Code of Conduct; and, where possible, have completed the CIPS Ethical Procurement and Supply course giving them Chartered Status.
The University will review this statement annually to ensure continuous improvement in minimising the risk of slavery and human trafficking in supply chains.
Over the coming year we will:
View the signed Modern Slavery Statement 2023/24 (PDF)
This page was updated on 3 December 2024 to include the Modern Slavery Statement 2023/24 including a signed PDF download version.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/university-jobs/doc/staff-benefits:
Read about the range of benefits available to University of Leeds staff.
All staff have access to a wide range of benefits, from support and advice at work to discounts on shopping and leisure.
These include:
Benefits + is a collection of optional extras that are open to all staff.
The variety of staff benefits ranges from subsidised transport and meals out, to pensions and special offers on shopping.
Every employee of the University has access to a generous occupational pension.
We have four different pension schemes covering different groups of staff.
Find out more about staff pensions at the University of Leeds , including retirement benefits and additional voluntary contributions.
All schemes provide valuable benefits on retirement, as well as life assurance and protection for your family.
We aim to be a 'best practice' employer.
We understand our employment policies need to be flexible and responsive to promote diversity and equality, and to attract and retain the highest quality work force.
We not only fully embrace the Employment Act, which gives government regulations on paternity, adoption and statutory maternity leave, but we go beyond the statutory requirements to help all staff balance the demands of work and personal life.
Take a look at our HR policies to find out more about flexible working hours, job sharing and many other schemes to help you achieve a healthy balance.
The University has its own award-winning childcare centre, Bright Beginnings, which provides high-quality childcare to staff members and students.
The centre caters for children aged between three months and five years and provides a Playscheme during the school holidays for children aged three to 11.
Find out more on the Bright Beginnings website .
The Summer Celebration is one of the many ways in which we recognise colleagues’ dedication and commitment to the University.
It’s an important opportunity for us to say thank you for all you do.
Held in late June, an afternoon of entertainment is organised on campus, enabling colleagues to relax and unwind in the company of friends and family.
Organised and run by colleagues, entertainment includes an exciting mix of live music, workshops, games, rides, stalls, quizzes, face painting, food and lots more attractions catering for all ages.
Many of the activities are free of charge, with any donations collected for charity.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/university-jobs/doc/career-development:
Having great people is central to our success and an integral part of our strategy.
We encourage everyone to develop their skills, not only to help us, but also so that you can get the most out of working here.
I’ve been encouraged to develop my skills and career through training, mentoring and the opportunity to move between roles.
All staff take part in the Staff Review and Development Scheme (SRDS).
It's an annual review which gives you an opportunity to look back at your successes and difficulties over the past year, and to plan your objectives for the future.
We want to make sure that all staff members are consistently well led and managed so we’ve introduced a set of employment standards in our People Management Framework .
The framework has helped us to make more effective use of the annual staff review and development scheme.
From courses and networks to workshops and mentoring, we have a range of development opportunities provided by Organisational Development and Professional Learning (OD&PL) .
OD&PL runs a varied programme of seminars, courses and workshops for your personal and professional development.
The courses are available for staff and postgraduate research students, and there is normally no charge.
OD&PL’s course listing includes training from other internal services including IT and the libraries.
Search the list of OD&PL courses
All staff at Leeds have free access to over 16,000 courses on LinkedIn Learning .
The University holds regular exhibitions, seminars and lectures on a range of different topics.
Many of these events are free to staff members.
The Careers Centre won the Staff Development Award for its work in the front-line training and development of staff gaining NVQ level 3 and 4 qualifications.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/university-jobs/doc/staff-wellbeing:
We believe in supporting our staff and provide a range of wellbeing and support services for everyone who works for the University.
Each faculty or service area of the University has its own dedicated HR team so you always have someone to contact should you need any help or support.
If you have general queries about holiday entitlement, pensions, staff benefits or salaries, our HR website has lots of helpful information.
Our Occupational Health team can help you with health difficulties which affect your work, or if work is affecting your health.
If you've got a problem or need some advice, have a chat with one of our specialists.
Our counselling service and chaplaincy are completely confidential and they'll be happy to help.
We also have prayer and contemplation facilities and a mediation service .
If you need help with an employment-related matter, the recognised trade unions, UCU , Unite and UNISON , provide help and support to their members.
If you’re moving to the Leeds area from elsewhere in the UK or from overseas, our International HR team can help with information about applying for visas, transport connections, childcare facilities and local leisure activities.
Visit our relocating to work at the University page .
We want you to settle into your new work environment as quickly as possible.
Our probation process is designed to give you the support you need to perform in your role to the best of your ability.
We hold regular induction sessions for new starters to welcome you and introduce you to the wider University.
These sessions give you the chance to meet the Vice-Chancellor and learn about the University community and our values.
After the induction, you’ll also have the opportunity to take a walk around our induction fair, which will familiarise you with our campus.
Additional induction sessions run by Organisation and Professional Learning can help you learn about more specific areas of the University, such as student education and research and innovation.
Our staff intranet (staff login required) will keep you informed of what’s going on at the University.
You can learn about events on campus, read recent news stories and find important guidance and policies all in one place.
Our campus is now smokefree between 8am and 6pm.
Read more about the University's smokefree campus initiative .
You can find out more about the range of support services available to staff on our HR website .
Take a look at our staff benefits and career development opportunities to find out what else you can expect from working at the University of Leeds.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/university-jobs/doc/living-leeds:
House prices vary across the UK but you should be able to get great value for your money in Leeds if you’re looking to buy a property.
As with any major city, rental and purchase prices vary considerably depending on where you choose to live.
The University is just a 10-minute walk or a short bus ride from the city centre.
If you’re looking to travel further afield, Leeds is well connected to the rest of the country, with rail services from the main train station taking you to London in around 2 hours and 15 minutes, Edinburgh in around 3 hours and Manchester in just under an hour.
The city is also home to Leeds Bradford International Airport , which offers flights to destinations across Europe.
And if you can’t find a suitable flight from Leeds, Manchester Airport is about an hour’s drive away.
Head out of the city centre and you’ll find an abundance of picturesque places to visit, from the beauty of Roundhay Park in the north of the city to the gardens of Temple Newsam and Harewood House , there are plenty of beauty spots to visit.
Leeds is set amongst some of the UK’s most striking landscapes.
Just a short drive or train ride out of the city centre will take you into the stunning Yorkshire countryside.
Here you can find brooding moors, green dales and dramatic coastlines along with a whole host of historical sites.
Famously, the picturesque moors around Ilkley and Haworth were the setting for many of the novels by the Bronte sisters and the Yorkshire Dales are ideal for outdoor activities such as walking, horse riding, climbing and cycling.
From the city’s Grand Theatre and Opera House to its numerous art galleries and museums, Leeds really does offer a thriving cultural scene to suit almost any taste.
The Royal Armouries is Britain’s national museum of arms and armour, and one of the most important museums of its type in the world.
The Henry Moore Institute is great for those looking for sculpture and culture and the Leeds City Museum can provide you with a wealth of information about the city.
The Leeds Art Gallery holds a vast collection of twentieth century British art to peruse.
The Tetley , a contemporary art gallery opened in the city by University of Leeds alumnae, Pippa Hale and Kerry Harker, houses numerous exhibitions and hosts events and activities for the public throughout the year.
To find something that grabs your interest, take a look at Leeds Museums and Galleries .
Leeds has a strong sporting heritage.
The city’s football team, Leeds United , is based at Elland Road stadium close to the city centre.
Headingley Stadium, which is a short distance from our campus, is the home of Yorkshire County Cricket Club and the Leeds Rhinos rugby league team.
If you wish to get active yourself, Leeds has many sporting facilities.
The Edge on the University’s campus has a state-of-the-art swimming pool, fitness suite, sauna and climbing wall and there are also many private gyms in the city centre.
To find local sporting facilities, visit the Active Leeds website .
Leeds has a thriving shopping scene with something for every budget.
Leeds Kirkgate Market is one of the largest indoor markets in Europe and the Corn Exchange is home to many independent boutiques.
The Trinity Leeds shopping centre has high street stores, restaurants, a street food court and an Everyman Cinema and you’ll find designer stores and a casino in Victoria Leeds .
Leeds city is a fantastic place for music lovers.
If you enjoy live music, First Direct Arena attracts world-famous acts and the Brudenell Social Club and HiFi Club offer lively and fun venues with a range of music catering for lots of different crowds.
Leeds also hosts some impressive music festivals.
Live At Leeds celebrates upcoming local bands alongside more established national acts and, every August bank holiday, over 80,000 music lovers descend on Bramham Park for the Leeds Festival .
Leeds has many places of worship including churches, temples and mosques.
Yorkshire has plenty of chapels and cathedrals to visit too.
These include York Minster, the largest medieval gothic cathedral north of the Alps, Leeds Minster, a Grade I listed Victorian building steeped in history, and Ripon Cathedral, an atmospheric building that inspired authors such as Lewis Carroll.
To find out more about what’s on offer in Leeds and Yorkshire, see the Visit Leeds and Welcome to Yorkshire websites.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/university-jobs/doc/equity-inclusion:
Our University community is made up of a wide range of people with diverse backgrounds and circumstances, which we value and regard as a great asset.
As part of our continued commitment to equity and inclusion, we strive to create an environment where everyone can reach their full potential and have a real opportunity to participate in and contribute to our activities.
Our EDI strategy is our vision for how the University will advance equity, diversity and inclusion for our community.
We provide practical equity-related support and information for all staff working at the University.
This includes prayer and contemplation facilities on campus, a range of HR policies and information to support staff who have a disability or have caring responsibilities.
The University has a number of networks staff can join.
They bring together employees from across the University, providing peer support, networking opportunities and social activities.
Our staff networks include:
Dealing with issues of under-representation, leadership, and the barriers to pursuing an academic career will benefit women and other groups faced with similar challenges and experiences.
The University is proud to hold an Athena SWAN bronze award , which recognises our commitment to advancing women’s careers in science, technology, engineering, maths and medicine (STEMM).
The Equality and Inclusion Unit is the centre for policy development and expert advice on equity and inclusion at the University of Leeds.
Email the Equality and Inclusion Unit via equality@leeds.ac.uk for more information.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/university-jobs/doc/relocating:
If you’re applying for a job at the University of Leeds from outside the UK this page has some key things you should consider.
We also have a couple of handy checklists you can use – one to check before you leave for the UK, and another for after you arrive.
Find out about the different visa types for international staff working at the University , how to apply and how we can help you.
Successful applicants may be eligible for the following financial help towards moving to the UK:
We can pay you back (reimburse you) for the cost of a standard visa application and the related Immigration Health Surcharge, if you are coming to the UK under one of the following routes (and don’t have any other funding to cover the cost of your visa):
If you need financial help with other costs relating to immigration, such as dependant visas/settlement, UK ECCTIS fees or travel to/cost of a UKVCAS appointment in the UK, we might be able to help with an interest free loan.
We may also be able to pay back (reimburse) you and your family for travel costs and the costs of moving, depending on the role you are taking at the University.
Maximum limits and eligibility criteria apply.
If you're moving to Leeds to work at the University, we can help you with staff accommodation .
The University has its very own childcare centre, Bright Beginnings .
You can also search the largest selection of childcare providers in the UK on Childcare.co.uk .
The Get The Right School website has lots of tips on placing a foreign student in a UK school .
If it’s an independent school you are looking for then a good resource is the Independent Schools Council .
If you’re budgeting, then the Office for National Statistics shopping prices comparison tool will give you an idea how much everyday items cost in the UK.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/structure-governance/doc/university-council:
It comprises lay members (who make up the majority of the membership), staff members, and student members.
Alastair has extensive leadership experience in the professional services sector and in the further and higher education sectors.
Alastair was a board member and Chair of Capital City College Group for 13 years, one of the largest further education providers in the UK and has served on the Councils of the London School of Economics and the University of Sussex.
Alastair is a qualified solicitor and he has been a partner and shareholder in a number of professional services organisations, including having a long career with international law firm DLA Piper, where he was a Corporate Partner, Managing Director (for Asia Pacific and Middle East), Global Board and Executive member.
Between 2018 and 2021, Alastair served as a Commissioner to the UK Government’s Social Mobility Commission and was lead commissioner for further education and adult skills.
Alastair has a Law degree from the University of Leeds and an MSc in Development Management from The London School of Economics.
He was awarded a CBE in the 2025 New Year Honours list for services to further education.
Email Alastair Da Costa via a.dacosta@leeds.ac.uk .
Professor Shearer West joined the University of Leeds on 1 November 2024 as its fourteenth Vice-Chancellor and President.
An expert in Art History, Professor West has held influential leadership roles in universities and higher education.
She obtained her BA degree in Art History and English at the College of William and Mary in Virginia in the United States of America, and her PhD in Art History at the University of St Andrews in Scotland.
Professor West was awarded a CBE in the 2021 Queen’s New Year’s Honours List for services to higher education.
With a keen passion for improving the student experience, Jess has worked in higher education since 2014, joining the University of Leeds in 2017.
Jess is the Faculty Portfolio Manager for the Faculty of Medicine in Quality Assurance (Student Curriculum and Operations).
She also specialises in timetabling and has worked across several teams in the Student Education Service.
Jess won a Faculty Partnership Award in Engineering and Physical Sciences in 2021 for innovation.
Stephanie Burras is the founder and Chief Executive of Ahead Partnership, market-leaders in delivering social impact programmes with employers that help young people to maximise their potential.
A graduate in languages, Stephanie worked as a partner within a global legal practice in London and Leeds before leaving the law to start Ahead Partnership in 2004.
Stephanie joined the International Advisory Board of LUBS in 2012 and helped set up the partnership with Goldman Sachs.
She chaired the Leeds City Region Employment and Skills panel for 5 years and was awarded a CBE in 2014 for services to business.
Seb has been a lay member of the Council since 2016.
He graduated from the University in 2004 with joint honours in History and Philosophy.
Since 2015, Seb has been chief executive of Access – The Foundation for Social Investment, which supports charities and social enterprises across England to be more financially resilient through developing enterprise activity and providing blended finance.
Seb’s previous roles have been within the charity sector covering policy, strategy and funding.
Following his graduation, he held two consecutive terms on the executive of Leeds University Union, during the latter of which he also served on the Council as a student representative.
Seb was awarded an MBE in the Queen’s Birthday Honours in 2022 for services to Social Investment.
Helen joined the Council in 2019.
She studied her law degree at the University of Leeds and qualified as a solicitor at Hammond Suddards (now part of Squire Patton Boggs).
She has spent the majority of her career as General Counsel and Company Secretary of listed companies across a range of industries – retail, building materials, security and leisure.
She stepped down as General Counsel and Group Secretary at the Co-Op Group in 2022 where she led their legal and secretarial functions and is a member of the Executive Team.
She is currently Chair of the Yorkshire and North East Advisory Board at the Canal and River Trust.
She participates in the School of Law mentoring scheme.
Peter Goldsbrough is an experienced board member and chair.
He is a trustee of the Fidelity UK Foundation, trustee of Dartington Trust, and Senior Advisor to The Boston Consulting Group, where he advises CEO and board-level executives of FTSE 100 companies and their equivalents around the world.
He previously chaired The Boston Consulting Group UK Partnership.
He was also previously a non-executive director with Imperial College Healthcare.
He is a Visiting Professor at the Institute of Global Health Innovation, Imperial College.
He was previously a member of the Education Endowment Foundation advisory board.
Shivani is the 2024/25 elected Education Officer within Leeds University Union’s Student Executive, a current MA Political Communication student and the Head of School Excellence scholar.
Prior to coming to Leeds, she studied her undergraduate degree at the University of Birmingham, receiving a Law LLB in 2021.
Shivani has worked in the US through Interexchange including being a performing arts program leader.
She also is a regular volunteer with The Salvation Army at her hometown of Doncaster.
She is passionate about how the global identities in our student body can influence how students engage with their education experience whilst at Leeds.
Shivani is a member of Senate, a Trustee of LUU and represents Leeds on the Russell Group Student’s Union network.
Lauren joined the University of Leeds in 2013 to study BA Theatre and Performance followed by an MA in Applied Theatre and Intervention and has remained a member of the University community since.
She previously held the positions of Activities Officer and Union Affairs Officer at Leeds University Union before taking up her current role as Student Experience Officer in the Lifelong Learning Centre.
In this role she supports mature, part-time and foundation-level learners at the University and works to develop a sense of belonging among students from widening participation backgrounds.
Robin is the Chief Internal Auditor at the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and a Chartered Member of the Institute of Internal Auditors.
He has spent the majority of his career at the FCA, and its predecessor the Financial Services Authority, holding various leadership positions as Director of Risk, Director of Operational Resilience, Head of Strategy and also leading the coordination of the FCA’s response to Covid-19.
He has spent a decade working in and leading aspects of technology and change delivery and data management and he is a co-sponsor of the FCA’s Race and Ethnicity Staff Network.
Outside of work, he is a member of the Livery of the Clothworkers’ Company, Chair of Trustees for a Kent grammar school and was previously the Chair of Governors for two Harris Academies in London.
Currently Head of the School of Education, Vanessa has led the vision and strategy for the School since 2022.
Vanessa began her career in biochemical research, prior to working as a chemistry teacher.
Following her first academic appointment at the Institute of Education, now part of University College London, Vanessa served in academic and leadership roles at Durham University, including as Deputy Executive Dean, Postgraduate Education and Student Experience in Social Sciences and Health.
Her research interests lie in science and teacher education.
Vanessa held school governor roles in three state schools in Durham from 2009-2024.
She was appointed as a Russell Group university representative to the UCAS Council from 2022.
Vanessa gained Principal Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy in 2021 and Fellow of the Chartered College of Teaching in 2023.
Gordon is currently the Head of the School of Computer Science where he oversees more than 1,200 students and 100 staff.
An interdisciplinary scientist specializing in optics and vision, he is a physicist by education and has worked in departments of physics, engineering, and computer science.
He held postdoctoral positions in the USA and India before spending much of his career at Durham University, serving in a number of academic and leadership roles including the (equivalent of) Pro-Dean for Student Education in the Faculty of Science, and the founding head of the Department of Computer Science.
He joined the University in 2023, a homecoming after growing up in Leeds.
Stuart grew up in Leeds.
Most recently, he was CEO of the English National Opera launching free tickets for under 21s and pioneering diversity and social mobility programmes.
Before that he launched and ran BBC3 then Sky Atlantic and oversaw all Sky’s entertainment output.
He commissioned Gavin and Stacey, An Idiot Abroad, A League of their Own and Torchwood among others.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Television Society and has a CBE for services to opera.
Alice is a Professor of Applied Performance and currently Dean for Student Education with responsibility for Quality and Standards.
She is a Leeds graduate, having completed her undergraduate and PhD studies at the University.
Alice took up her post at Leeds in 2003 and has held various leadership positions in the School of Performance and Cultural Industries including Admissions Tutor, MA Programme Leader and Director of Student Education.
She served a five-year term as Head of School from 2015 to 2020.
In her current role she leads the University's assessment strategy and chairs a number of key committees, including the Quality and Standards Committee and the Digital Assessment at Leeds Project Board.
Amara is the 2025/26 elected officer for Union Affairs and Communications in Leeds University Union’s (LUU) Student Executive.
Last year Amara was the LUU Equality and Liberation Officer.
Founder member and former CFO of credit reference agency Callcredit (now Transunion).
Currently non-executive Director and Audit Committee Chair of Dotdigital plc; former non-executive Director and Audit Committee Chair of Tracsis plc and Link Scheme, the UK ATM operator.
Trustee and Chair of the Finance and Investment Committee of Yorkshire Cancer Research; former Governor, Audit Committee Chair and member of the Remuneration Committee at Leeds Trinity University.
Member of the Leaders in Residence programme in the University of Leeds Business School.
Wallace joined Harrogate Borough Council as chief executive in August 2008 and served in that role until local government reorganisation in April 2023.
Over a 40-year career he developed extensive experience in customer service delivery and transformation with award winning projects and teams whilst at Bradford MDC and Harrogate BC.
He undertook a number of lead responsibilities in the Yorkshire region including tourism (with Harrogate hosting the Grand Depart of the Tour de France in 2014) and climate change where he was instrumental in supporting the establishment of the Yorkshire and Humber Climate Commission.
At a local system level, he was the chair of the Harrogate District Public Services Leadership Board.
Since stepping back from his chief executive role, he has developed a diverse portfolio of responsibilities supporting the public sector.
Wallace was awarded an OBE in the New Year’s Honours List 2020 for services to business and the community in Yorkshire.
Ken has had a portfolio career.
Originally from Sheffield, he started work as an apprentice in the steel industry before becoming a mature, non-traditional entry university student.
During his studies, education and skills became his career focus following his belief in the power of education making a difference to individual lives and economies.
He developed his career in education progressing from lecturer to senior post holder and then for over 25 years, in professional services working for KPMG and Deloitte, in which he became a Partner in the UK and then Australian Firms.
His area of focus is building consulting business, delivering public sector transformation, education and skills engagements in the UK, Middle East, Far East and Australia.
In 2020, he retired from the Deloitte Australia Partnership, having been a part of the national leadership teams of the Public Sector Transformation, Human Capital, and Education businesses.
He had also been a member of the board of the Queensland office with oversight of the regional strategy, business growth and how the office made an impact that mattered both internally and externally.
He returned to the UK and is now the founding partner of a boutique consultancy business that operates globally.
Janet is CEO of the Collaborative Learning Trust and a National Leader of Education.
Janet has worked in school leadership, including several inner-city schools, for nearly 30 years.
In 2009 she was the first BME secondary headteacher to be appointed in the city of Leeds and the first female headteacher in the 400+ year history of Prince Henry’s Grammar School (a comprehensive, non-selective school).
In 2018 Janet led the development of the Collaborative Learning Trust, a multi-academy trust with Prince Henry’s Grammar School as the founding school.
The Trust has subsequently grown to include diverse schools across the Leeds and Bradford area.
Janet is passionate about increasing diversity in school leadership and has led a range of initiatives and activities (often in partnership with the DfE) to make a difference in this area.
In 2021 she was awarded an OBE for services to education.
A Leeds graduate, Heather joined the Council in September 2023 and is a chartered accountant and chartered tax professional who has been operating in the restructuring and change management space for the last 25 years.
She retired from PwC in May 2023 after 21 years as a partner, having led the Global Restructuring Services business for her last four years and the UK Restructuring and Refinancing business for six years prior to that.
She has spent significant periods of time living and working overseas, most recently returning from Japan in February 2023, and is passionate about the development of teams and supporting diversity, inclusion and equity in the workplace.
You can read more about the Council on our Governance and Compliance website .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/about/doc/find-us:
The address for the main entrance to the University of Leeds campus is:
University of Leeds Woodhouse Lane Leeds LS2 9JT
Please note, if you’re using satellite navigation to find us, the street listing can appear as Cavendish Road in some navigation systems.
Leeds Railway Station connects Leeds with all major UK cities.
For train information and timetables visit the National Rail Enquiries website .
Walking to the University campus from Leeds Railway Station takes around 20 minutes.
What3Words for the main entrance to Parkinson Building ///search.engage.sprint
Come out of the station into City Square; with the Queens Hotel behind you, walk straight up Park Row.
Continue up Park Row until the first major junction.
Cross straight over The Headrow and continue up Cookridge Street.
At the next set of lights go straight on passing Millennium Square on your left and Leeds City Museum on your right.
Turn left on to Woodhouse Lane, a busy main road.
You'll pass Leeds Beckett University on your left and our University campus begins in another 50 metres or so, on your left.
To reach the Parkinson building, carry on up Woodhouse Lane to the building with a clock tower.
If you're thinking about cycling to the University, we have secure bike racks and showers.
For bike routes and information about cycling in Leeds, visit the Leeds City Council cycling pages .
If you have any questions or mechanical issues with your bike, the University bike hub can help.
It also offers bike hire to staff and students.
For coach details, visit the National Express website .
Most coaches arrive into Leeds Bus Station.
The number 6 bus runs from the bus station to the Parkinson Building, outside the University’s main entrance.
There is also a taxi rank outside the bus station.
A taxi to the University takes about 10 minutes.
For local bus information and timetables, visit the West Yorkshire Metro website .
There is also a Leeds CityBus that stops at the bus and train stations and the southern end of campus (near the back of Leeds General Infirmary A&E).
Leeds is linked to the M1 and M62 motorways.
Parking on campus is limited, so we recommend that you use public transport, where possible.
Find directions to our car parks by using our Google Maps interactive campus parking map .
To avoid disappointment, visitor parking during core hours (7am to 5pm Monday to Friday), must be pre-booked by a University staff member, and costs £7 for the day.
You’ll need to contact the department you're visiting to book a space.
If you need to pay for parking, we’ll issue you a code so you can pay at the end of your stay.
Outside core parking hours, the orange zone visitor car parks are open to the public, and you can pay at a pay station before you leave.
For more information, visit our car parking web pages .
Blue badge spaces are located throughout the visitor car parks.
Our map of the visitor car parks includes the location of accessible bays.
Blue badge holders are not exempt from payment for parking.
As a campus on the edge of the city, we’re within easy reach of a number of city centre car parks.
The Visit Leeds website has a list of car parks in the city centre.
If you’re travelling to Leeds by car and want to avoid parking in the city centre, you can use park and ride .
There are sites at Elland Road, Temple Green and Stourton, providing easy access by bus into the centre of Leeds.
If you’d like to car share when visiting Leeds, search for others taking the same journey using the Liftshare website .
The closest airports to Leeds are Leeds Bradford Airport and Manchester Airport .
Leeds Bradford Airport is around seven miles away from the University and is easily commutable by taxi.
If you’re flying into Manchester Airport, you can catch a train from the airport to Leeds city centre.
Find your way around the University using our interactive campus map .
You can also download a printable campus map (PDF) or a large print version of the map's text portion (PDF) .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni-news:
News from our global alumni community.
Read the latest news from the Leeds alumni community.
After being dismissed from the Royal Air Force (RAF) during the British military’s ban on LGBTQ+ service members, Professor Andrew Hartle advocates for others dealing with the fallout.
A leading road safety researcher and a sports ambassador who helped turn Leeds into a global centre for triathlon are among those recognised in the King’s Birthday Honours.
After showing a passion for drama at Leeds, television executive and presenter Alan Yentob went on to change the course of broadcasting over nearly six decades at the BBC.
Leeds Pride 25 celebrates LGBTQ+ individuals and allies from the global Leeds community making a positive impact in the Pride space.
Through podcasts, blogs and features, meet the alumni making their mark around the globe.
‘Where leaders are made’ – read the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Subscribe today to catch up with Olympians, scientists and award-winning journalists in our Leeds Voices podcast.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni-events:
Connect with the University of Leeds community through in-person and online events.
Find out about our upcoming in-person and online events.
Meet and connect with fellow alumni, enjoy inspiring talks and hear from Leeds researchers.
If you’d like to get in touch about a past or future event, email the Alumni Events team at alumnievents@leeds.ac.uk .
To receive our monthly newsletters and make sure you never miss an event, update your contact details .
Did you miss it?
Re-watch or catch up on alumni events and webinars whenever suits you.
Find out about our upcoming reunions or organise a reunion.
Join the Leeds Alumni Book Club to chat about books with fellow alumni around the world.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni-events/doc/reunions:
Reunions are a great way to reconnect with old friends and reminisce about your time at the University of Leeds.
We love to learn about alumni getting back together so please tell us your plans.
If you are interested in organising a reunion, no matter how big or small, whether it’s in Leeds or anywhere in the world, please email the Advancement team at alumni@leeds.ac.uk so we can help you with your next steps or discuss potential options.
You can also use our Alumni reunions guide to help you plan your event.
Would you like to contact a friend you made at University?
Fill in our online find a friend form .
Use our Alumni reunions guide to help you plan your own event.
We can help you organise reunions for your course, halls, clubs and societies.
Whether you want to invite your entire graduating class or catch up with a few housemates, we can support you with this – email the Advancement team at alumni@leeds.ac.uk .
From our experience, six to nine months are needed to plan your reunion and to give people plenty of notice.
Will this reunion be a return to Leeds, or held in another city or country?
Do you want to visit campus?
Would you run this reunion online?
If you are unable to travel to Leeds and have alumni friends from all over the globe, why not try a virtual reunion?
We can send you guidance on using various online platforms.
Some ideas include:
Our Global Networks team can also put you in touch with alumni in your city and help you get started on a reunion event in your country.
Discover more about setting up and running an alumni group in your city.
We can send you a list of people we are in touch with and who we have lost contact with.
You can let us know if there is anyone missing and get an idea of numbers.
If you see friends you are in touch with marked as ‘lost contact’ on our list, please encourage them to update their details so that they don’t miss out on alumni events on our alumni update my details page .
Data protection regulations mean that we are unable to disclose any personal information on our graduates but we can contact them on your behalf.
Make an initial call out – If you are unsure about details of your reunion, you can send out an initial communication via us to gauge interest and ask for opinions on when and where to run your reunion.
Please note we can send out two postal communications and three email communications per reunion.
If you know the who, what and where of your reunion you can skip straight to sending invitations, without an initial call out.
Before we send the invitations, you need to confirm a date, venue and cost for your reunion.
Then, we can send your invitations.
The details you’ll need to provide include:
We can also publicise your reunion on our website.
One to two months before your reunion takes place you should think about:
We love to hear about alumni getting back together so please get in touch with us and email the Advancement team at alumni@leeds.ac.uk with an update of how everything went and provide us with a list of those who attended.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni-events/doc/events-replay:
From research presentations and inspiring alumni talks to advice on how to start or build on your career, re-watch or catch up on our Leeds alumni events and webinars.
Leeds Alumni Voices: In Conversation with astronaut Matthias Maurer

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni-community:
Your alumni community will help you keep that Leeds feeling forever.
Over 350,000 alumni from all around the world are connected by their time at Leeds.
Meet your alumni community and keep that Leeds feeling, forever.
From LS2 to every corner of the world, every Leeds graduate has a story to tell.
Through podcasts, blogs and features, meet the alumni making their mark.
No matter where you are in the world, fellow Leeds alumni are never far away.
Stay connected through our global alumni groups.
Bestselling writers, Oscar-winning actors, medal-winning Olympians and world-leading scientists – discover the Leeds graduates making waves around the globe.
Do you enjoy a good read?
Join our online Alumni Book Club and share your love of books with fellow Leeds alumni.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni-community/doc/book-club:
We know that many of our alumni love to read.
That’s why we’ve set up the Leeds Alumni Book Club.
It’s the perfect way for you to talk about books with fellow alumni around the world.
Join our free book club
A moderator will lead your conversations, encourage debate, suggest points to consider and share relevant articles.
This format allows for ongoing conversation and makes it easy for Leeds alumni to connect with each other.
The moderator is from the company PBC Guru, who are helping us run the club.
No.
The book club will be entirely online.
This means that alumni all over the world can take part and we’ll all benefit from a diverse range of perspectives.
One or two hours a week should be enough to keep you on track with the Leeds Alumni Book Club.
We’ll read a book every two months.
Participation in group discussions isn’t essential so if you find yourself short on time, don't stress.
You’ll need to supply your own book.
The book can be physical or digital.
You're lucky – Leeds alumni don't need to pay for the book club.
Your club will vote to decide which book we read next.
You'll be invited to suggest books for inclusion in these regular voting sessions.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni-community/doc/global-alumni-groups:
Being a part of our global community means you can talk to alumni across the world.
Alumni groups help you to connect with fellow Leeds alumni wherever you, or they, might be.
Build your network, share your experiences and stay Forever Leeds.
If you graduated from LUBS, please see our full list of LUBS alumni groups .
Use the following list to find and join an alumni group where you are.
To join the Ghana WhatsApp group or to connect through SMS and email:
Fill out our short form to join the Kenya WhatsApp group
Fill out our short form to join the Nigeria WhatsApp group
Fill out our short form to join the Bahrain WhatsApp group or Join the Bahrain LinkedIn group
Fill out our short form to join the Hong Kong WhatsApp group or join the Hong Kong Facebook group
Fill out our short form to join the India WhatsApp group
Fill out our short form to join the Indonesia WhatsApp group ​​​​​
Fill out our short form to join the Japan WhatsApp group
Fill out our short form to join the Malaysia WhatsApp group
Fill out our short form to join the Pakistan WhatsApp group
Fill out our short form to join the Saudi Arabia WhatsApp group
Join the Singapore Facebook group
Fill out our short form to join the South Korea WhatsApp group
Fill out our short form to join the Taiwan WhatsApp group
Fill out our short form to join the United Arab Emirates WhatsApp group
Fill out our short form to join the Brazil WhatsApp group
Fill out our short form to join the Canada WhatsApp group
Fill out our short form to join the Colombia WhatsApp group
Fill out our short form to join the Mexico WhatsApp group
Fill out our short form to join the Peru WhatsApp group
Fill out our short form to join the Finland WhatsApp group
Fill out our short form to join the Netherlands WhatsApp group
Are you interested in starting a Leeds alumni group in your city or country?
Or know of an active group but can’t see it listed on this page?
Find out how to start and manage an alumni group.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni-community/doc/alumni-stories:
Explore the annual magazine for alumni of the University of Leeds.
From alumni stories – featuring astronauts, musicians, Olympians, journalists and scientists – to the latest campus and research news at Leeds, explore the online Leeds magazine:
The Leeds supporter community are doing incredible things.
From those who give their time and expertise in volunteering, to the many who make regular financial gifts or have pledged to remember the University of Leeds in their will, discover the difference they make in our annual Thanks To You magazine:
Climate conferences, sporting showdowns, national celebrations – Leeds alumni play their part all around the globe.
Read about those featured in our celebrations.
Leeds Voices is a podcast for anyone who went to Leeds, has children or relatives at Leeds right now, or is thinking of applying to study at Leeds themselves.
Meet famous alumni with stories to tell, discover the latest Leeds research, and hear from current students as they shape the future.
In this podcast, you can hear stories from before, during and after your time at Leeds from fellow alumni who have gone on to make a world of difference.
This podcast mini-series is a chance for the Leeds alumni community to meet fellow alumni who are leading the world to a more sustainable future.
In this blog series, Leeds alumni experts have their say.
From how to create a more sustainable future to the magic of volunteering, learn from the Leeds alumni in the know:
If you would like to contribute a guest blog post to Leeds Alumni Voices, email your proposed topic to the Advancement team at alumni@leeds.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni-community/doc/who-played-here:
Many famous live acts have performed for our students through the years.
Who did you see when you studied here?
Tell us who you saw at Leeds.
There were no live events during parts of 2020 and 2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni-community/doc/who-studied-here:
A prime minister, world leading scientists, bestselling writers, leaders in healthcare and celebrity actors – discover the Leeds graduates making waves around the globe.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni-services:
Make the most of being part of the Leeds alumni community
When you graduate from Leeds, you enter the next phase of a lifelong relationship with the University.
Find out how we can continue to support you as a member of the Leeds alumni community.
Make the most of being part of our alumni community.
Our Careers Service will support you in your next steps, whatever stage you are at in your journey.
Reconnect with old friends and reminisce about your time at the University of Leeds.
Update your contact details and stay connected with us.
Order replacement transcripts, certificates and statements from our Student Services team.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni-services/doc/benefits-alumni:
But what exactly does it mean to be a member of the Leeds alumni community?
And how can you make the most of it?
We continue to support our alumni long after you’ve graduated:
As a Leeds graduate, you have the opportunity to meet and connect with fellow alumni around the world:
Alumni are always welcome back on campus.
You can continue to use the library free of charge for reference purposes, or take out a membership to borrow books.
You can also join The Edge sports centre and visit Leeds University Union .
Leeds researchers are changing the world and Leeds alumni have a unique opportunity to discover more about their ground-breaking work, first-hand:
As a Leeds graduate, you have the opportunity to play a part in the future of the University and help our students and future graduates to succeed.
This could be through volunteering , supporting and working with students , or giving to Leeds financially .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni-services/doc/alumni-careers-support:
Leeds alumni benefit from access to lifelong careers advice, resources and job information.
Our Careers Service will support you at every stage of your career journey.
Visit our Careers website
Whether you’re starting out, looking for a career change, returning to work after a break, or moving to the next level of your career, we can help you with job applications, interviews, and finding work experience.
Read about everything you can access through the careers service .
You can also attend our in-person and digital events around the globe for social and networking opportunities and exclusive access to job openings.
Alumni can access vacancies, events and opportunities through MyCareer.
Visit the MyCareer website and choose "Graduate sign in and registration".
Alumni who graduated after 2020 have free access to LinkedIn Learning, an online learning platform providing 15,000 self-paced learning courses to aid your career development.
Visit the MyCareer website to register for LinkedIn Learning.
If you graduated before 2020 and would like to access LinkedIn Learning, email the Graduate Support team at graduatesuppport@leeds.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni-volunteering:
Become a Leeds volunteer and support those who are following in your footsteps.
Whether you're embarking on your career journey or already established in your field, help our students to flourish by volunteering at Leeds in-person or remotely.
Help our students to flourish by offering careers advice, sharing knowledge about your industry, mentoring students or providing work experience.
When you volunteer at Leeds, you’ll develop your existing leadership and mentoring skills, expand your professional network, connect with Leeds and experience the pride and satisfaction that comes with helping students to achieve their goals.
Sign up to become a volunteer by emailing the alumni volunteering team at alumnivolunteers@leeds.ac.uk or by completing our volunteering registration form.
Our students thrive when alumni give them real-life insights into the world of work.
You could be the mentor or e-mentor that launches a student’s career.
Offer internships or placements and benefit from the specialist skills, new ideas and enthusiasm our students can provide.
Take a look at our volunteering opportunities to learn how you can inspire our students and potential applicants.
In this video, Natasha talks about how she supports students as an alumni volunteer:
Video transcript: Natasha Barbar-Evans
“Throughout my education and career, I’ve been fortunate to have great mentors (and still do).
I’d like to do my part to help others as well.”
“Being able to help upcoming graduates to choose the right path, something I struggled with when I had graduated 15 years ago, is fantastic.”
“I am happy to teach youngsters not to make my mistakes.
Thanks to people who volunteer, we can improve the delicate passage between study and work.”
“I enjoy making a positive contribution to others.
It’s rewarding and enlightening.”
“I am always so impressed by the students I work with – in awe of them really.
Their global (and local!) perspective and strong values are inspiring.”
“The mentor-mentee relationship allows both the established and developing professionals to learn from each other's experiences.”

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni-volunteering/doc/mentoring:
Mentoring is a powerful tool.
As a mentor you support a student to manage their own learning and development.
You help set personal goals and work together towards achieving positive change.
You answer questions and give guidance in a relaxed setting.
By sharing knowledge, experience and expertise, you can help your mentee gain a competitive edge in the graduate job market.
In addition to assisting students, mentoring will help to enhance your own leadership and management abilities.
There are sever schemes you might get involved in.
I’ve always found mentoring to be a rewarding experience and one that challenges me to stay at the forefront of my field too.
For more information about getting involved, please email the Alumni and Supporter Volunteering team via alumnivolunteers@leeds.ac.uk .
To find out more information, visit the scheme information page .
If you are interested in becoming a mentor please contact the Mentoring and Widening Participation Team by emailing mentoring@leeds.ac.uk
Find out more about 30 minute mentoring by visiting the Plus Programme volunteering pages .
There are several other mentoring schemes across the university that might be suited to you.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni-volunteering/doc/internships-placements:
Do you have a project you don’t have time to complete?
Need to develop a particular area of the business but not sure it needs a permanent member of staff?
It’s time to bring a Leeds student into your organisation.
Leeds students are itching for the kind of career experience that you can provide.
When you host an intern or placement student, you’re bringing a talented, enthusiastic individual with a range of skills to your team.
Your internship or placement gives immeasurable value to a student.
Doors suddenly open.
Opportunities arise.
Your company can access student support throughout the year or for a specific period of time.
Not sure which option your team needs?
Email the Alumni Volunteering team at alumnivolunteers@leeds.ac.uk and we’ll help you find the perfect match.
Find out more about offering a summer internship .
Fill out our internships form to express your interest in offering internships at your organisation.
Fill out our placements form to express your interest in offering work placements at your organisation.
Fill out our placements form to express your interest in offering part-time roles at your organisation.
After volunteering as a Leeds mentor, Jeremy Galbraith (Law 1988) offered a year-long placement in his company – communications consultancy, BOLDT, based in Brussels.
He’s benefitting from the support of talented and enthusiastic Middle Eastern Studies student, Olivia Hansard:
Video transcript: Olivia Hansard speaks about her placement year .
Remember how daunting it was to face the job market when you graduated?
Now you can be the person who provides the opportunity Leeds graduates need.
You can advertise jobs directly to our students and recent graduates through our Careers Service.
Our careers fairs on campus will connect you to our talented students and help you bring a high-achiever into your organisation.
To find out more about hiring Leeds graduates, please email the Employer team at employerteam@leeds.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni-volunteering/doc/more-volunteering-opportunities:
As well as offering internships and placements at your organisation or mentoring students , there are many other ways you can volunteer at Leeds.
Our volunteering registration form can help us to match the most relevant volunteering opportunity to you.
Alternatively, take a look at our list of voluntary opportunities to learn how you can inspire our students and potential applicants.
Complete our volunteering registration form
Global volunteering opportunities allow alumni to give back to the University and support Leeds students wherever you might be.
There is a global network of over 350,000 Leeds alumni around the world.
Network with fellow alumni in your country, meet University staff who are travelling and share your experiences and memories of your time at Leeds through one of our global opportunities:
Low commitment and big impact activities are often remote, require one to two hours of your time and do not need much preparation.
They are a great way for you to get a taste of volunteering with us and share advice with students:
Talks, workshops, networking events and career days allow volunteers to make a significant impact on students’ career development.
From insights into specific subjects, industries, skills, or life in Leeds, to helping translate academic learning into practice, there are many different options available:
Volunteers can help the University to support learners from all backgrounds on their journey into higher education.
There are two options for volunteers hoping to inspire prospective students:
Read more about how to apply to give volunteering academic support or how to apply to give mentoring support with IntoUniversity.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni-volunteering/doc/support-plus-programme:
Thank you for your interest in our work with Plus Programme students.
The Plus Programme is a scheme to support students who come from backgrounds that are less represented at university.
It provides a space for participants to connect with other students and access exclusive opportunities and funding to enhance thekr experience at Leeds.
By volunteering on the Plus Programme, you could make a difference to the lives of students.
In the video ‘Volunteering with the Plus Programme’, Abbey Tsang explains how your support has helped her.
Transcript: Volunteering with the Plus Programme
Can you offer insights into your industry, current role and previous work history?
In this mentoring scheme, Plus Programme students meet with an alum for a 30-minute mentoring session.
As a mentor, you will meet up to five Plus Programme students for a one-to-one session, over a day during term time.
These sessions can take place either in person or online.
If you’re a postgraduate alumni interested in mentoring current masters students, we’d love to hear from you.
In this programme, students meet alumni in roles or sectors that align with their own goals.
Students will gain:
Mentors would hold at least three 1-hour sessions.
Can you host students in your workplace for a day?
Insight days give current students a chance to learn about the world of work.
Hosting students to visit your workplace will be invaluable for students.
They would:
Our team can work with you to create activities that would benefit students.
Are you able to offer opportunities of interest to students?
We are looking for contributions to our weekly newsletter for Plus Programme students.
If you have opportunities that may be of interest to students we’d love to hear from you.
Opportunities could include:
This will give our students the chance to take part in new, exciting opportunities that they may not have engaged in before.
We are looking for some short videos and written articles covering a range of topics.
We will share these with our Plus Programme students via Instagram and LinkedIn.
To find out more, email the alumni volunteering team at alumnivolunteers@leeds.ac.uk .
Can you deliver a fun and engaging social in Leeds?
Our social events give students the chance to make connections and socialise with their peers.
If this is something you can offer we’d love to hear from you.
Did you take part in any of the below opportunities?
We will be holding information sessions on:
If you can share your experiences we’d love to hear from you.
Your insight could inspire students to take the same opportunities.
We are looking for alumni to share their expertise in managing money.
You would share tips with students including how to:
If you can share experience of managing money, or expertise from a relevant industry, students could gain a lot from your knowledge!
We’re looking for people who have been involved in student housing, for example:
We’d like you to give tips to students on how to find housing for second year.
Housing help information sessions are important, especially for first year students.
Are you a recent masters graduate?
We’re looking for volunteers to write or record case studies for students about to start postgraduate courses.
They will help students prepare for their studies by offering an insight into what to expect.
We’d love you to share your experiences, particularly focussing on topics such as:
To register your interest for any of these opportunities, or to find out more, get in touch with us at alumnivolunteers@leeds.ac.uk .
The University of Leeds is committed to providing equality of opportunity for students and helping ensure those from under-represented or non-traditional backgrounds have the highest chance of success.
The Plus Programme works with a diverse range of students.
It is open to students from a varied range of backgrounds including:
In 2022 this was around 6,000 students across the University’s undergraduate and postgraduate cohorts.
We demystify information for students and remove assumed knowledge.
We help to build cultural capital for students who may be the first in their family to go to university, or may not have experience in particular areas.
It’s also about students feeling seen and that they belong at the University.
We’d love you, as an alumni of the Plus Programme, to contribute to our work in this area.
Thank you again for your involvement!
We really appreciate it and it will be so valuable to our Plus Programme students and their experience.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni/doc/update-details:
Update your contact details, change your communication preferences and stay connected as a valued member of our alumni community.
Want to reduce your environmental footprint?
Please choose to receive our digital newsletters and magazines.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni/doc/alumni-give-to-leeds:
Your gifts enable us to nurture talent, raise aspirations and power societal change.
From developing groundbreaking research to helping exceptional students get on the path to a university education, your gift can make a difference in so many ways.
Make a one-off or regular donation via our Giving platform.
By including a gift to the University in your will, you can help us to nurture people, generate ideas and make discoveries which will change the world for the better.
Support from philanthropic partners – trusts, foundations, businesses and charities – is transforming the lives of students and advancing the impact of the University through contributions to new buildings, fellowships, scholarships, vital research and our cultural treasures.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni/doc/alumni-get-in-touch:
We love to hear from our global alumni community.
Use the following contact details to get in touch with one of our dedicated teams.
You can also find the links to organise a reunion or order a replacement transcript or degree certificate.
Make sure you update your contact details to receive regular communications and stay connected with us.
If you have an enquiry about alumni events, please email our Alumni Events team at alumnievents@leeds.ac.uk .
Find out how to become a Leeds volunteer and support those who follow in your footsteps by emailing the Alumni Volunteering team alumnivolunteers@leeds.ac.uk .
Use our find a friend form to find a friend you met at Leeds.
Reunions are a great way to reconnect with old friends and reminisce about your time at Leeds.
Whether you want to celebrate a class anniversary, catch up with former housemates, plan a formal dinner or schedule a weekend of activities, we can help.
Please email the Advancement team at alumnievents@leeds.ac.uk so we can help you with your next steps or discuss potential options.
You can request replacement transcripts from the Student Services Centre .
If you have any queries please email the Student Information Service at studentinfo@leeds.ac.uk
You can order a replacement certificate from the Student Services Centre .
Your employer, or other third party organisation, needs to request the academic verification on your behalf through the Prospects Hedd website .
The verification confirms that you attended and completed (if applicable) a degree at the University of Leeds.
If you need proof of your studies and award (if applicable) you should apply for a former student statement through the Student Services Centre .
Please contact your school/faculty directly for character references.
Your school/faculty holds dissertations for up to five years after graduation.
Please contact your school/faculty directly to obtain a copy.
The library holds copies of PhD theses – they are available in person upon request for reference purposes.
If you would like to obtain a copy, you can make a digitisation request with EThOS .
EThOS is a collaborative e-thesis online service where you can request theses from various universities.
There will be a charge for digitisation.
For more information or a confidential discussion about leaving a legacy to Leeds, please contact Jessica Mifsud-Bonnici.
Email Jessica Mifsud-Bonnici: j.m.d.mifsud-bonnici@leeds.ac.uk
You can support Leeds by making a single or regular donation through our Giving platform .
If you'd like to speak to us about your donation, please email the Give to Leeds team at give@leeds.ac.uk .
If you’re connected to a philanthropic trust, foundation or corporate partner and are interested in working with us, please email our Foundations team at foundations@leeds.ac.uk .
Each year we set out to speak to as many of our alumni and supporter community as possible.
You may receive a call from a current student on +44 (0)113 251 0001.
This is a central University of Leeds number and unfortunately you won’t be able to call it back.
If you receive a missed call from this number and want to check whether it was us, please email the Give to Leeds team at give@leeds.ac.uk .
Email the Advancement team: alumni@leeds.ac.uk Phone the Advancement team: +44 (0)113 343 7520
Postal address: Advancement Team University of Leeds Leeds West Yorkshire UK LS2 9JT

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni/doc/alumni-privacy-notice:
This Notice tells you how the University of Leeds’ Advancement team will collect and use your personal data.
This Notice explains how the University, through its Advancement team, Departments, Schools and Faculties, will collect and use your personal data for alumni and development activities.
Throughout this Notice, "University" "we", "our" and "us" refers to the University of Leeds.
"You" and "your" refers to University alumni, together with other individuals involved in alumni and development activity.
We are the data controller for personal data that we process about you.
We will process your personal data in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation (or UK GDPR for short).
This Notice complies with requirements under both the Data Protection Act 2018 (DPA) and UK GDPR.
The University will sometimes process your data based upon your consent.
The University has made a contractual commitment to students, as lifetime members of the University, to provide services and activities for alumni.
Therefore the University will also be processing data often on the basis that it is necessary to enable it to meet its contractual commitments to alumni.
The University believes that, by supporting University alumni and other development activities, it is conducting something in the public interest.
In particular, it is supporting the University’s charitable object of education and the benefits to society that flow from that.
Sometimes the University will be processing your data because you have clearly made it publicly available.
Finally, the University believes that its activities are necessary for the purposes of the legitimate interest of the University and other third parties.
These interests are not overridden by the interests and fundamental rights or the freedoms of the data subjects concerned.
Legitimate interests of the University and third parties focus around supporting educational activities and ongoing developmental activities for University alumni and others.
It is recognised that some of these grounds will overlap and that the University could rely on multiple grounds justifying its lawful processing.
The Data Protection Officer's contact details are provided at the end of this Notice (see section 18.
Concerns and contact details ).
Where you are a student of the University, you automatically become a member of the University and normally become a member of the University alumni community.
The University promises to provide alumni services to University alumni and this promise is now part of the student contract.
The University regards these services as an important and integral part of the University's long term commitment to its students.
A member of the University alumni community is someone who:
Please visit the alumni website for more information.
We obtain your personal data from the following sources:
We will collect and process personal data about you.
Personal data may contain "sensitive personal data" as described under the DPA and "special categories of data" as described under UK GDPR.
Such "sensitive personal data" or "special categories of data" is information about your racial or ethnic origin, religious beliefs or other beliefs, physical or mental health or, in relation to DPA only, other conditions and information concerning any criminal offences or criminal proceedings.
This data would only be used if:
The data we may process includes:
As with most websites, certain actions you take will be recorded anonymously as cookies by the University's websites.
See the University's privacy and cookies policy for more information.
We will use your data to help us maintain an engaged alumni community.
We may also process your personal data for the following purposes:
Fundraising supports:
Volunteering supports:
When meeting with alumni, we sometimes share 'pass lists' which detail the first name, surname, degree and classification for other individuals who graduated from the same course in the same year.
These lists are used to remind alumni about their student days; enabling them to reminisce.
The information can also help the University to make contact with alumni we may have lost touch with.
Individuals with whom the lists are shared are asked if they are in touch with anyone on the list and, if appropriate, asked to approach these individuals to establish if they would like to receive communications from the University.
On occasion, members of the alumni community host reunions.
To help the organiser establish who to invite, the University provides some information.
The University provides organisers with details of alumni from a selected year group and course, as requested by the organiser.
Details provided include first name and surname (as it appears on the University’s alumni database), degree, course and year of graduation.
Details usually indicate who the University is in contact with and who is deceased.
If you would prefer for us not to use your data for reunions, please email the Advancement team at alumni@leeds.ac.uk or call the Advancement team on +44 (0)113 343 2499 .
To ensure that we do not make inappropriate requests in our fundraising and volunteering communications, we may carry out research to assess your likely ability and willingness to make gifts to or volunteer for the University.
This research may include collecting and storing data relating to you that is in the public domain (such as career history, directorships, shareholdings and remuneration) as well as data that has been provided by you, including your interests, and University activity you have previously been involved with (donations, volunteering, event attendance, etc).
This research is sometimes known as prospect research or wealth profiling.
If you would prefer for us not to do this, please email the Advancement team at alumni@leeds.ac.uk or call the Advancement team on +44 (0)113 343 2499 .
In addition to conducting this research in-house, we may use approved third party analysts to carry out what is known as wealth screening.
Drawing entirely on data held in the public domain, wealth screening companies are used to identify those high net worth individuals who may be interested in supporting the University with a significant philanthropic gift.
This process allows the Advancement team to use its resources efficiently and guard against unnecessary contact.
If we are using a third-party data analyst the company's analysts are allowed to use your data only in accordance with the strict instructions of the University.
The data must be held confidentially and securely and only used for the approved wealth screening activity.
Your data will only be kept for as long as necessary and will then be destroyed.
If you would prefer for us not to use your data for wealth screening, please email the Advancement team at alumni@leeds.ac.uk or call the Advancement team on +44 (0)113 343 2499 .
We use your data (such as your postcode, subject of study, age, gender and level of engagement with the University) to help us plan our activities, and determine if we should contact you with certain communications, or information about particular activities.
It helps us identify how our alumni are involved with the University, and which alumni activities are most popular.
This research helps ensure our communications (including fundraising or volunteering requests) are relevant and of interest to you.
If you would prefer for us not to use your data for planning our activities, please email the Advancement team at alumni@leeds.ac.uk or call the Advancement team on +44 (0)113 343 2499 .
The Advancement team uses various modelling tools that will automatically process your data to assess the likelihood of you being able to make a donation to the University or of becoming involved in alumni activities.
However, we believe this does not produce a legal effect concerning you or similarly significant affect upon you in terms of article 22 paragraph 1 of UK GDPR.
If you would prefer for us not to use your data for automated decision making, please email the Advancement team at alumni@leeds.ac.uk or call the Advancement team on +44 (0)113 343 2499 .
Your data may, when anonymised and no longer constituting personal data, be used to support alumni activities.
Please note that if you wish to make a gift to the University, we may process your personal data, including information from the public domain, for due diligence purposes, in accordance with our Gift Acceptance and Naming Policy.
We will update the data we hold on you from time to time.
For example, if you provide us with new contact details or change your details on websites managed by the University, The Leeds Network or social media sites such as LinkedIn.
We will respond to your request for your data to be updated.
If you would like your data to be updated, please either email the Advancement team at alumni@leeds.ac.uk , call the Advancement team on +44 (0)113 343 2499 , or use the update my details form .
We may update your contact details by using third party sources/services such as Royal Mail NCOA (National Change of Address).
We also use these services to check if there are people we should no longer contact (for example, if someone has died).
Where third parties provide these services to us, they are only allowed to use your data in accordance with the strict instructions of the University.
The third party is required to hold the data confidentially and securely and will not use your data in any other way.
If you would prefer for us not to use third party sources to update your data, please email the Advancement team at alumni@leeds.ac.uk or call the Advancement team on +44 (0)113 343 2499 .
Your data is held securely within the University.
Access is strictly controlled and staff receive training on data protection.
In addition to third parties helping us keep your data up to date, in order to boost functionality and efficiency, we may employ IT experts from outside of the University to aid with the development of our systems.
They may have access to information which is necessary to complete the specific task for which they are appointed.
These experts will provide their services in accordance with the strict instructions of the University.
In particular they must respect confidentiality and to the extent they do need to temporarily hold any data, that data must be held securely, strictly used only for the agreed purpose, kept for only as long as necessary and then destroyed.
We also facilitate communications between individual alumni but, in doing so, we do not release personal contact details without prior permission.
We will not sell or share your data to third parties for their commercial purposes.
All UK universities are obliged to give contact details for a sample of recent graduates to The Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA) in order to conduct a survey of graduate destinations.
Graduates will be contacted 15 months after graduation with the “Graduate Outcomes” survey.
See HESA’s student collection notices for more information about how HESA process your data.
The Graduate Outcomes Survey helps to inform government policy.
It is also used in calculations for university league tables and by the universities themselves to assess the longer-term impact of the student experience.
The data is provided to HESA strictly and solely for this purpose.
All recent graduates to whom this applies will be given the option to opt out of the survey when they are first contacted.
Sometimes third parties who are facilitating alumni surveys, which feed into university league tables and rankings, ask the University to share graduates' contact information with them.
These include, but are not limited to: Financial Times, The Economist, QS and Times Higher Education/Wall Street Journal rankings.
When we need to share your contact details with these third parties, we will give you prior notice and the option to opt out of the survey when we first contact you.
We may send communications to you by post, telephone or electronic means (principally by email, but also SMS, messaging apps and services), depending on the contact details we hold, the consent that you have provided, and the preferences expressed by you about the types of communications you wish to receive.
In particular, we will regularly communicate with you for the following purposes:
If you would prefer for us not to use your personal data for any or all of these purposes, please email the Advancement team at alumni@leeds.ac.uk or call the Advancement team on +44 (0)113 343 2499 .
To manage your communication preferences online visit our update my details page.
If the telephone number we have for you is registered with the Telephone Preference Service (TPS) we would only contact you on that number for administrative purposes unless you have given us permission to contact you on this number for other purposes.
If you have opted not to receive communications from us via the Fundraising Preference Service we will follow your wishes.
If you are unsuccessful in unsubscribing from our communications and/or have any concerns, please contact our Data Protection Officer (see section 18.
Sometimes, to achieve the purposes for which we are processing your personal data, we may need to share your personal data with other organisations based within the European Union or, if outside the European Union, based in countries that have comparable levels of protection.
When we need to share your data with organisations outside of the European Union, we will ensure that there are appropriate safeguards in place.
We see being a member of the University and part of the alumni community as a lifelong relationship.
Generally, the University will look to retain University alumni personal data until the individual asks us to remove it from our records.
We will routinely remind you of your right to have us remove your personal data.
If you decide that you no longer wish to receive communications from the University, please be aware that we still need to retain a minimal amount of personal data so that we can keep a record that you have asked us not to contact you.
If you are not a member of the University alumni community, any personal data held will be deleted should you not respond to our attempts to contact you, or state that you have no interest in forming a relationship with the University.
Under UK GDPR you have the right to:
Please see the Information Commissioner's Office website for further information on your rights as a data subject.
You may also contact the Data Protection Officer for further information (see section 18.
The University is committed to fundraising in a transparent, responsible and honest way.
We are registered with the Fundraising Regulator and have committed to follow the associated Code of Practice.
If you have any concerns regarding the way your personal data is being processed or have a query about this Notice, please email our Data Protection Officer, Rebecca Messenger-Clark at dpo@leeds.ac.uk
Our general postal address is University of Leeds, Leeds, LS2 9JT, UK.
Phone the University of Leeds switchboard on +44 (0)113 243 1751 .
Our data controller registration number provided by the Information Commissioner's Office is Z553814X.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni/doc/new-graduates:
Once students graduate, they become lifelong alumni of the university.
Now you’re a Leeds alum, you join a diverse global community of 357,000 graduates from 197 countries, so a Leeds friend is never far away.
There are countless other ways you benefit as a member of our community:
You are part of the University of Leeds community for life, and we will help you keep that Leeds feeling, forever.
Visit our dedicated new graduate welcome page to discover more about what it means to become a Leeds alum, and discover congratulatory messages from the global Leeds community.
In our regular email newsletters, we will share the latest news with you, provide career support, invite you to events relevant to you and let you know about all the ways you can get involved.
But only if we have permission to email you.
Complete the form to update your communication preferences (which you can change at any time).

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-how-to-apply/doc/accepted-qualifications:
To do a degree at Leeds you will need to meet our minimum entry requirements and specific requirements for your chosen course, which you can find through Course Search .
This information is for applicants from the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
If you are applying from another country/region/area please read our information on accepted international qualifications .
The typical minimum entry requirement for all our undergraduate degree programmes is a pass in a combination of five subjects in GCSE (or IGCSE) and GCE A-level (or International A-level) examinations, or equivalent qualifications .
They should include:
We use the following grading scale for GCSE:
You can find out which equivalent qualifications we accept in the following sections.
The exact entry requirements for your chosen course will generally be more specific than the University minimum requirements and will tell you which grades you need.
You can find course entry requirements on Course Search .
If you have AS-level results, we will consider them when making a decision.
However, if you have not done AS-levels then this will not be a disadvantage.
We normally expect applicants to have completed three A-levels (or equivalent) in one sitting.
If you have not, then we will need your school or college to tell us why in the academic reference section of your UCAS form.
If you are taking science A-levels in England, you will usually need a pass in the practical assessment part of your exams.
If you are unable to take the science practical due to exceptional circumstances, please contact the relevant school’s admissions team for further advice before you apply.
Contact details are available on each course page.
Many of our courses do not include General Studies and Critical Thinking in their entry requirements.
However, if you narrowly miss your offer, General Studies and Critical Thinking may be considered if you achieve good grades in either of these subjects.
Please contact the relevant admissions team for further information about the specific entry requirements for your course.
The following list tells you more about our policies on accepting qualifications equivalent to GCSE and A-levels.
If your qualification is not listed here, you should contact the admissions team, whose details you can find on your course page .
International applicants should check our information on accepted international qualifications .
You must have a Diploma in a relevant subject and hold 60 credits overall, with at least 45 credits at level 3 including 30 credits at Distinction and 15 at Merit - this is a minimum; some courses will have higher requirements.
You may need specific units and grades for some courses.
Please contact the relevant admissions team to find out more.
You can find their contact details on Course Search .
We recognise that this qualification provides evidence of in-depth knowledge of the subject area.
However, we do not accept it as a qualification for entry.
WJEC Level 3 Advanced Skills Baccalaureate Wales is accepted in place of a third A-level subject at the same grade.
For example: if your chosen course requires AAA at A-level, we require two A-levels at grade A, plus your Level 3 Advanced Skills Baccalaureate Wales at grade A.
We base our offer on the three A-levels taken with the AQA Baccalaureate.
We also encourage you to discuss your work experience and other elements of your Baccalaureate in your personal statement.
We accept BTEC Extended Diplomas, BTEC Extended Certificates, Foundation Diplomas and Diplomas.
Some courses may also ask you for specific levels of achievement in a particular unit or units as well as the overall requirement.
You may also need other acceptable Level 3 qualifications alongside the BTEC.
You should contact the admissions team for your course before you apply to check your qualifications will be considered.
We will also consider the size and subject of your BTEC and any other Level 3 qualifications when we advise on your entry requirements.
Some of our schools may take into consideration whether the BTEC is on the QCF (Qualifications and Credit Framework) or RQF (Regulated Qualifications Framework) when setting entry requirements.
You should tell us on your application form which framework your qualification sits in.
If you are not sure, you should ask your current school or college.
Further information can also be found on the Pearson website .
We will consider your three principal subjects or a combination of principal subjects and A-levels.
We will take the Global Perspectives and Research (GPR) Pre-U into consideration as part of your overall profile and may consider it where you are undertaking GPR in combination with two to three A-levels or equivalent.
We would encourage you to discuss your GPR qualification in your UCAS application.
We accept the Extended Diploma, but you may need an additional A-level for some courses.
We usually only accept the Introductory Diploma alongside two A-levels and the Diploma alongside one or two A-levels.
We do not accept Application of Number Level 2 as an equivalent to GCSE Maths.
We will accept Level 3 Core Maths if you have achieved a grade C/4 in GCSE Maths but you need a higher grade for your chosen course.
Where A-level Maths is required we do not accept Core Maths instead.
We do not require applicants to have obtained the English Baccalaureate.
Although UK students are not required to take the Extended Project Qualification, we appreciate that it provides the opportunity for you to develop important research and academic skills.
We encourage you to provide further information on your project in your personal statement and, if invited, at interview as it is often taken into account if you narrowly miss the grades outlined in our offer to you.
In some cases, admissions tutors may make an alternative offer to applicants that involves successful completion of the EPQ (for example, AAB plus A in the EPQ as an alternative to AAA at A-Level).
Please check Course Search to see if this is available for your course.
Level 2 Functional Skills Maths and English at a Pass are accepted as equivalent to GCSE grade 4 or C.
Courses requiring a higher grade in GCSE Maths or English may not accept Functional Skills in its place.
This includes extended degree courses with a foundation year offered by the Lifelong Learning Centre, where the course you wish to study after the foundation year has a higher GCSE Maths or English requirement for standard entry.
Please check with the relevant course admissions team before applying.
Some of our faculties will accept HNDs and HNCs, depending on the course.
If you are an IBCP student, you should contact the faculty admissions team prior to your application so your academic profile can be considered.
The type and size of the vocational elements and the level of the IB courses will be considered so the team can advise on your specific qualifications.
We encourage applications from students undertaking higher level (HL) IB courses.
We will consider applicants who present three HL courses, or a combination of HLs with A-levels, in which case three unique subjects must be undertaken.
Please note that subject-specific requirements may apply to some courses.
We accept the International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme with a minimum overall score of 31.
Some undergraduate degrees may require a higher overall score or specific grades in higher level (HL) or standard level (SL) subjects.
Foundation years offered by the Lifelong Learning Centre may require a lower overall score.
Our requirements vary by course and may differ depending on the IBDP modules you are taking.
Please check Course Search to find out the requirements for your course.
We accept higher level Maths: Applications and Interpretation and Maths: Analysis and Approaches in place of A-level Maths.
We accept standard level Maths: Applications and Interpretation and Maths: Analysis and Approaches in place of GCSE Maths.
We accept the following in place of GCSE English at grade 4 or C:
We do not accept Literature and Performance or English ab initio in lieu of GCSE English.
We appreciate that the International Project Qualification enables you to develop your research and academic skills.
We encourage you to include information about your project in your personal statement and if you are invited to interview, as it is often taken into account if you narrowly miss the grades outlined in our offer to you.
In some cases, admissions tutors may make an alternative offer to applicants that involves successful completion of the IPQ (for example, AAB plus A in the IPQ as an alternative to AAA at A-Level).
We accept the Irish Leaving Certificate (Higher Level).
You can find out more about our requirements on our international qualifications page.
We accept Level 1/2 certificates from AQA, CAIE and Edexcel, as an equivalent to GCSE qualifications.
Please contact the relevant admissions team for further information.
We accept National 5s as equivalent to GCSEs.
The minimum English language requirement is grade C or above.
We accept Scottish Highers and Advanced Highers with the grades in the list that follows.
The list shows the A-level grades and equivalent Higher and Advanced Higher grades.
For the full list of T Level subjects we accept and the courses you can apply for with them, please see our T Levels statement .
Our typical offer is Distinction overall with A in the Core Component.
T Levels are considered for entry on to the foundation year courses offered by our Lifelong Learning Centre.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-how-to-apply/doc/application-timetable:
Find out dates and deadlines relating to applications.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-how-to-apply/doc/writing-personal-statement:
The personal statement is an important part of your UCAS application.
It helps admissions staff at the University decide whether to make you an offer.
Some courses have many more applicants than places and there may be many students with good grades applying for the same course as you.
Your personal statement is your chance to tell us why you want to study a particular course and why you would make a great student.
It gives evidence of your skills, knowledge and experience.
The personal statement is split into three questions:
Read more about personal statements on the UCAS website .
Your answer to each question needs to be at least 350 characters, and there is an overall character limit of 4000 characters.
Your personal statement is your chance to stand out from the crowd.
Your answers should be unique and individual to you, but some things to include are:
If you are an international student, you should also mention:

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-applying/doc/contextual-admissions:
If you are a UK student from a background that is less represented at university, we can help support you to get a place on an undergraduate degree at Leeds and to get the most from your studies while you are here.
We welcome talented students who have the potential to succeed at university regardless of educational or personal background.
Access to Leeds could offer you the chance to study a degree with lower entry requirements than listed on our course pages .
This can be two grades lower than the published entry requirement for each course.
So for example, if the course entry requirement is AAA - the Access to Leeds offer could be ABB.
The programme also offers a study module and support and events to prepare you for university.
You will be eligible for Access to Leeds if you are a UK student and you meet two of the following six criteria:
Find out more about Access to Leeds .
I joined Leeds through the Access to Leeds scheme and found the welcome events really useful.
They were run by people who had similar backgrounds to me, so they knew exactly how I was feeling.
The whole experience has been massive for my self-confidence.
If you live in a neighbourhood where there is low participation in higher education, we may be able to give priority to your application.
If you receive an offer, this could be reduced by one A-level grade (or equivalent), in most cases.
You don’t need to apply separately: if you are from a Low Participation Neighbourhood we will automatically give your UCAS application additional consideration.
Use our postcode checker to find out if you are from a Low Participation Neighbourhood .
If you don’t have the formal qualifications for immediate entry to a degree course, you can take a foundation course .
Sometimes known as extended degrees, foundation courses help you prepare for degree-level studies and gain the necessary academic background.
On successful completion, you will then progress to the first year of your relevant degree course.
Our Lifelong Learning Centre offers a number of degree courses for those returning to study or who want to study part-time .
These courses have a lower grade requirement than most of our degrees and their entry requirements can include information about your background or work experience.
We deliver courses that encourage and support student diversity, with a focus on students from under-represented groups or who don't have traditional qualifications.
We offer extended degrees with a foundation year, pathways into degree study, flexible undergraduate courses for part-time and mature learners, and apprenticeships.
We also offer one-to-one advice and guidance sessions , a short taster course called Jumpstart and in-person and online events to help you decide whether you want to move on to higher education.
Find out more about our support for mature and part-time students .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-applying/doc/after-you-apply:
Find out what you can expect after you have applied.
When assessing applications, we look for enthusiastic and talented students who have the potential to succeed in their studies with us and contribute to our community.
You can keep up to date with the progress of your application through UCAS .
UCAS will notify you when we make a decision on your application.
If you receive an offer, you can inform us of your decision to accept or decline your place through UCAS.
We typically receive a high number of applications to our courses so it can take time to receive a decision.
For applications submitted by the January UCAS deadline, UCAS asks universities to make decisions by mid-May at the latest.
For some subject areas, the number of applicants exceeds the number of places available so, to ensure that we treat all applications fairly and equitably, we wait until after the UCAS application deadline has passed before reviewing applications and making a final decision.
This helps us to ensure we get the planned number of students on your course, giving you the high-quality student experience that you expect from Leeds.
If we put your application on hold, we will send you an email to let you know.
You can find out whether this process is in place for your course by checking Course Search .
You may have to wait a little longer to hear from us, though we will still make a decision by the UCAS deadline of mid-May at the latest.
This process will not affect your other UCAS applications.
You should reply to your offers only when you have received all your decisions.
Other universities will not change their offers if you are waiting for a decision from another institution.
You can find key dates for the entire application process on the UCAS website.
Your application may be put on hold until the UCAS application deadline has passed if you apply to a course in any of the following academic schools:
Some of our courses require an interview as part of the application process, such as Medicine, Midwifery and Social Work.
To find out more, check the application guidance for your chosen course on Course Search .
If you receive an offer from us, you will be invited to an offer holder day, where you can learn more about your course and chat to academic staff and students.
It will be more in-depth than an Open Day and will be either virtual or on campus.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-applying/doc/types-course:
Find information about undergraduate courses that are designed to offer flexible study options and alternative routes for those looking to return to study.
You can find all our undergraduate courses on Course Search .
On successful completion, you will then progress to the relevant degree course.
If you’re an international student and you don’t have the right qualifications to start an undergraduate degree course, you may be able to study on one of our International Foundation Year programmes .
Employers welcome the specific skills that joint honours graduates gain and the employment record of our graduates is excellent.
Use Course Search to search for a joint honours course.
You can choose to study several subjects in your first year — your two named subjects and one or more discovery modules in areas which are new to you, allow you to continue your interests from school or college or help you to develop skills, such as IT or a new language.
There is usually the chance to do a large project or dissertation in the final year, with a wide choice of courses to choose from.
Joint honours courses vary in length from three to five years — all programmes which include a modern foreign language last either four or five years, and include at least one year abroad.
You may also want to study abroad if you are not a language student.
As a joint honours student you will study alongside single honours students and you'll study the same number of credits as a single honours student, but just take fewer modules in each of the subjects.
We offer a small number of part-time undergraduate courses .
Part-time study can enable you to work and balance other commitments while you study, and can also make it possible for you to gain an academic qualification while developing your career at the same time.
The Lifelong Learning Centre provides free, confidential and impartial advice and taster events as well as support throughout your studies.
If you are a medicine or dentistry student, you can take time out of your course to study for an intercalated medicine degree .
By combining your training with a year’s study in a complementary subject, you can develop your skills and knowledge and improve your employability.
Students at Leeds and other institutions are welcome to intercalate at the University.
Integrated degrees are available at both undergraduate and postgraduate level, and bursaries and other financial support are available to selected students.
Please check the entry requirements for your chosen course as they differ between undergraduate and postgraduate courses.
For more information, email the Intercalation team at intercalate@leeds.ac.uk .
Some of our degree courses are offered as integrated Masters – you undertake three years of undergraduate study, then the fourth year is taught at postgraduate level, converting your undergraduate degree to a postgraduate one.
This is most common in scientific disciplines.
Search for ‘integrated Masters’ in Course Search to see what’s on offer.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-fees/doc/fees-undergraduate-fees:
Find out about tuition fees for our undergraduate courses, whether you are a UK or international student.
The amount of tuition fees you pay is based on whether you are classified as a home (UK) or international student.
If your status isn’t clear from your application form, you will enter our fee assessment process .
Tuition fees for UK undergraduate students for 2025/26 are £9,535.
Fees for UK undergraduate students are decided by the Government and may vary if policy changes.
The fee may increase in future years of your course in line with inflation, and as permitted by law.
Fees will be substantially reduced for a study abroad or work placement year.
The amount will depend on your year of entry.
For UK (home) students paying the £9,535 tuition fee in 2025/26, the reduced fee is £1,435.
Foundation year fees vary by course and more information is available on individual course pages.
Visit Course Search to find the fees for your course.
Financial support is available depending on household income.
The annual fee will be calculated as a proportion of the equivalent full-time fee, based on the number of credits you will be studying.
For example, if the full-time course is 120 credits and you will be studying 60 credits, your fee will be 50% of the full-time course fee.
If you're an eligible full-time or part-time UK student (classified as a home student) you can choose to:
If you take out a government tuition fee loan, you only start paying it back when you earn over a certain threshold in the UK.
Read information about repaying your loan on the GOV.UK website .
​​​​​You might be eligible for additional funding to help cover tuition fees and living costs , which you don’t have to pay back.
International fee information is available on individual course pages.
Use our Course search to find the fees for your course.
The fees quoted are for full-time study for each year of the course.
These fees will be the same for each year of your course.
The academic fee covers tuition, exam costs and membership of the students' union.
The fees are higher than for UK students because they are not subsidised by the UK government.
We have a range of subject-related scholarships .
For international students, the reduced fee for a work or study abroad placement year for 2025/26 will be £4,350.
Read our information on fees and funding for incoming exchange and study abroad students , and on fees and scholarships for Leeds International Summer School students .
You need to make arrangements to pay your tuition fees before the start of the academic year or you won't be able to register.
Find out more about how to pay your tuition fees and when you need to pay them on our Students website.
You become liable to pay tuition fees when you register on your course.
If you leave before the end of your course, we calculate your fees based on your leaving date.
Read more about tuition fee liability on our Students website.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-fees/doc/living-expenses:
To make sure you have enough money for your accommodation, living and study costs at university, it’s a good idea to plan your budget early.
The information on this page is provided as a guideline only , based on average spending.
You should calculate your own budget .
The following tables are estimates for a single student in 2025 based on the latest data available.
The actual amount will depend on your accommodation type and availability, and your lifestyle.
They don’t include tuition fees.
All University accommodation costs include household bills and (except family accommodation) gym membership.
Some private accommodation costs include household bills.
Estimated total budget per week: approximately £199 to £423
Visit the Save the Student website to find budget calculators and advice.
You can use the following list to start researching costs you might need to budget for:

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-funding:
We offer funding to UK students to help with the costs of university, linked to annual household income.
Find out about the different types of funding available if you are a UK student.
You can apply for Government student loans and funding from the University.
You won't need to pay for your study or living costs up front.
If you are a deferred student, you will generally need to apply for financial support applicable to your year of entry.
You can also read our tips on managing your money when you’re at University .
Not a UK student?
Read about funding for international students .
If you have the talent, drive and potential to succeed, we want to make sure you can study with us whatever your financial circumstances.
If household income is less than a certain amount, you may be eligible to apply for a means-tested undergraduate scholarship, which offers funding and support.
We offer non-repayable to help UK students with the costs of being at University, linked to your annual household income.
Find out if you are eligible.
If you're in financial difficulty while you are a student with us, you may be able to apply for funding from the University to help with living costs.
We offer scholarships for forced migrants to the UK that cover tuition fee and study costs.
If your parent or spouse is a grocer, pharmacist or commercial traveller, or you are employed in these fields, you could qualify for a bursary of up to £3,000 a year.
Find out about scholarships that have academic achievement as a key awarding criteria.
Our prestigious Scholarship Programmes support elite athletes and coaches to combine academic and sporting excellence.
An opportunity to develop business skills in a supportive environment with a substantial grant to help with start-up costs.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-funding-university/doc/personal-circumstances-scholarships:
If your household income is less than £42,875 a year, you may be eligible to apply for a means-tested undergraduate scholarship which offers funding and support.
The deadline for scholarship applications for 2025 entry has now passed, and no further applications can be accepted.
If you have applied for a scholarship for 2025 entry, you should hear from us by August 2025.
Applications for 2026 entry will open in March 2026.
Worth £3,000 a year for three years (paid in cash instalments), our UK undergraduate means-tested scholarships are of higher value than the University’s funding package Leeds Bursary (funding which is automatically awarded based on a student’s household income level).
The scholarships do not have to be paid back and are in addition to the financial support you can receive from the government (such as the tuition fee loan or maintenance loan).
Students who are able to evidence that they are care experienced and/or estranged from their parents during the application process will be eligible for an additional £2,000 annually.
Alongside the funding, you'll have access to one-to-one support and advice sessions, group workshops, mentoring opportunities, social events and monthly newsletters updating you on relevant activity on and off campus through the Plus Programme .
There are a limited number of scholarships available.
We will award the UK undergraduate means-tested scholarships to selected UK students from low income households who also meet the eligibility criteria and are entering Leeds as full-time, level one undergraduates in the following September.
The scholarships are available thanks to the generous support from alumni and other organisations.
Please remember the scholarships are limited.
Meeting the eligibility criteria and being able to apply does not guarantee that you will receive an award.
However, if you do not receive a scholarship, you may be eligible for the Leeds Bursary instead.
You must:
Even if you do not wish to receive a maintenance or tuition fees loan from the Student Loans Company, you will still need to create a student finance application and choose to be assessed for finance based on household income in order for us to consider your financial eligibility for a scholarship.
You will have the opportunity, during the application process for student finance, to indicate that you wish to apply for a £0 tuition fees loan and/or a £0 maintenance loan instead of the maximum loans available to you.
When selecting scholarship recipients our short-listing takes into account a range of indicators which may show that an applicant is from a less-advantaged background; these indicators include, but are not limited to :
If you have questions which are not answered in the scholarship FAQ , please email the Undergraduate Scholarships team on ugscholarships@leeds.ac.uk .
A number of scholarships are exclusively available from the Faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences and the Faculty of Environment for offer holders who are from a low participation neighbourhood to Higher Education.
There is also a similar opportunity from the School of Design, called The Clothworkers’ Affordability Scholarship:
BA Sustainable Fashion & BA Fashion Design Innovation: Successful applicants will receive £3,000 for 3 years, plus an additional £2,000 in their first year for the purchase of a laptop.
BSc Textile Innovation and Sustainability: Successful applicants will receive £6,625 per year for 3 years (£3,000 per year as a maintenance grant, plus an annual tuition fee discount of £3,625)
For these scholarships, apply using the standard application form in the 'How to apply' section of this page .
If you are eligible, you will automatically be selected from your application, so you do not need to do anything extra.
If you’re in receipt of the Means-tested Undergraduate Scholarship, you can apply for the NHS Low Income Scheme HC2.
This entitles you to free prescriptions, free dental treatment, free eye tests, and help with the cost of glasses/contact lenses, and help with travel costs to NHS appointments.
You can apply for an NHS HC2 on the NHS website .
You will need to provide a letter from the University to confirm that you receive a means-tested bursary or scholarship.
Please email the Funding team at funding@leeds.ac.uk to request a letter to support your application.
Information relating to scholarships changes from time to time.
While the University endeavours to keep this information as up to date as possible, it cannot be held liable for any inaccuracies.
If you defer entry for a year, you will generally need to apply for financial support applicable to your year of entry.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-funding-university/doc/scholarships-academic-achievement:
We offer a number of subject related scholarships for UK and international undergraduate students.
All of these scholarships have academic achievement as a key awarding criteria for the scholarship.
Visit the following school web pages for more information.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-funding-university/doc/leeds-bursary:
Leeds Bursary is non-repayable support for full- and part-time UK students to help with the costs of being at University.
Your eligibility for the Leeds Bursary is linked to your annual household income.
So if your income is assessed by your awarding body as being under certain thresholds and you meet the other eligibility criteria, you are guaranteed to receive it.
You will be able to choose how you receive this support – either as a cash bursary, a discount on your fees or University accommodation.
The level of support you receive depends on your household income and the year you start your studies.
If you are applying to start your full-time course in 2025, to qualify you must:
If you are applying to start your part-time course in 2025, to qualify you must:
If you're a full time student you don't need to apply for the Leeds Bursary; your eligibility will be confirmed based on the information held on your student record and the information you provide to the Student Loans Company (SLC) when you apply for a maintenance loan.
Both you and your sponsors – usually your parent(s) or partner – will need to give the SLC consent to share your household income with the University.
We will send an email to your University email account, once all eligibility criteria has been met, to confirm your award.
After you have received the email you can choose how you wish to receive your support.
It is possible to be means-tested by SLC even if you do not wish to take out a maintenance or tuition fees loan.
If you do not wish to take out a loan but still wish to be considered for a Leeds Bursary award, visit the Government's student finance forms page .
If you are studying part-time you will need to apply for the Leeds Bursary every year that you are studying with us.
If you have applied for a means-tested maintenance loan, provided household income details, and consented to share your information, you will need to complete the Part-time Leeds Bursary application form to notify us.
If you have only applied for a tuition loan or you did not submit any information about your household income, you’ll need to complete the full Part-time Leeds Bursary application form .
You will also need to upload supporting income documents such as:
Processing can take up to 4 weeks if all required documents are provided.
Submit you application by October 31 to receive the first payment on time.
Later applications may take up to 6 weeks for processing.
The following table shows how much financial support full-time students can receive per year based on their household income.
The amount you can get depends on which course you are studying.
Information for Foundation Year students is subject to Office for Students (OfS) approval.
The following courses qualify for both a standard Leeds Bursary and an additional tuition fee discount, regardless of how you choose to receive the bursary:
The following courses are charged a lower tuition fee, making them eligible for the standard Leeds Bursary only:
If you are studying part-time, the support you will get from us will be a proportion of the support available to full-time students.
Support will be calculated on the basis of the workload of your part-time course compared to an equivalent full-time course.
The tuition fee for your course will be calculated on the same basis.
The following table shows the annual Leeds Bursary amount based on household income and number of credits (intensity of study):
You can choose whether you want to receive the Leeds Bursary as a cash award, an award against your tuition fees or an award against your University of Leeds accommodation.
You can make your choice up until the second Friday in November.
After this date you will automatically receive your Leeds Bursary as a cash award directly into your bank account.
If you choose to receive your Leeds Bursary as a cash award, it will give you the greatest flexibility on to how you use it, but remember that you will need to budget carefully to cover living expenses and other essential study related costs.
If you are planning on living in university accommodation, you may want to consider the accommodation option.
This option means that the award is paid directly against your university accommodation which means the amount you need to pay directly to cover this cost is reduced.
If you choose this option, the award will be paid directly against your tuition fee account.
This means that the amount you need to pay directly to cover this cost is reduced.
If you are taking out a tuition fee loan, we will inform the Student Loans Company about the bursary and they will reduce your tuition fees loan accordingly.
If you are paying the remaining tuition fees yourself, the reduced fee will be split into the instalment plan you have chosen.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-funding-university/doc/financial-hardship-funding:
If you're in financial difficulty while you are a student with us, you may be able to apply for financial support from the University to help with living expenses.
The Leeds Financial Assistance Fund is a University-funded scheme for students and postgraduate researchers who are facing genuine or unexpected financial difficulties and who do not have alternative sources of financial support.
Students are assessed on their individual needs and any help you get from the fund is non-repayable.
You can apply at any time from the date you register up to the last day of your course.
You can find more information about the Financial Assistance Fund on our website for current students.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-funding-university/doc/sanctuary-scholarship:
We offer scholarships for forced migrants to the UK.
The Sanctuary Scholarship is open to people who wish to study any undergraduate or postgraduate taught (Masters) degree.
The scholarship covers the full cost of tuition fees and £10,000 a year towards study costs.
If you receive the Sanctuary Scholarship, you won’t need to pay the money back.
In addition, you may be offered a place on an optional pre-sessional language course (6 or 10 weeks in Summer 2025) which will enable you to meet any language requirements attached to your offer to study.
There are a limited number of scholarships available and you must apply.
If your application is successful, we will invite you to an interview.
Not everybody who applies is invited for an interview.
Applications to the Sanctuary Scholarships for the 2025/26 academic year closed at 12pm on Monday 7 April.
As this deadline has passed, we are unable to accept further applications.
You can apply for this scholarship if you have an offer or if you have applied for any of the following degrees, full-time or part-time:
Unfortunately, you cannot apply for Sanctuary Scholarship funding for postgraduate research and PhD study.
To apply for this scholarship you must:
Your residency status must be either:
Your status may also be one of the following, which are only eligible if you already have a degree of the same level you wish to study at Leeds gained from a University outside of the UK - therefore making you ineligible for mainstream student funding:
We can only award the scholarship if your immigration status allows you to study for the duration of your course.
If your immigration permission changes so that you are not allowed to study, we may have to cancel the scholarship.
Please be aware that if you have decided not to receive student finance for faith reasons, this does not make you eligible for the Sanctuary Scholarship.
For Sharia-compliant funding opportunities, please see our page on financial support for Muslim students.
To apply for the Sanctuary Scholarship, you must have already applied for your course but you do not need to have an offer of a place yet.
If your application to study is rejected at any time, then your application for or offer of a Sanctuary Scholarship will be withdrawn.
If you have any questions about the scholarship please email the Sanctuary Scholarships team at sanctuaryscholarships@leeds.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-funding-university/doc/scholarships-faqs:
A scholarship is a competitive and prestigious award given to students who meet certain criteria.
At Leeds we have two types:
The scholarships based on income will require you to submit an application before you enter the University.
When selecting students for a scholarship based on income, we also take into account factors such as:
The scholarships based on income include on-course opportunities through the Plus Programme : peer support, a welcome day, social events, skills workshops and dedicated staff support.
They are designed to encourage you to make the most of your time at Leeds.
The scholarships are limited in number and very competitive; submitting your form by the deadline and meeting the eligibility criteria will not guarantee that you receive an award.
The faculty based automatic scholarships do not normally require you to submit an application; they are offered in certain subject areas (based on grades) and you will be informed by the admissions team for your school if you qualify after registering at Leeds.
Please note, if you defer entry for a year, you will generally need to apply for financial support applicable to your year of entry.
Medicine and dentistry students (who are currently partially funded by the NHS) can apply for a means-tested scholarship.
If they are successful, they will receive it during the first three years of their degree.
Scholarships based on income are targeted at students who have not yet entered higher education.
However, foundation year students currently studying at level 0 are eligible to apply, if they are progressing onto level one study.
If you have left a degree level course at another institution within your first year of study, you will also be considered, as long as you are eligible to receive full tuition fee funding from the Student Loans Company for your course at Leeds.
Unfortunately, part time students are not eligible.
This is because all our scholarships based on income require the recipients to be paying 100% of the full UK undergraduate fees (£9,250 for students starting in 2024/25; fee waivers from within the University exempted).
The automatic scholarships based on grades all have different criteria; please see the terms and conditions for each scholarship for further information.
No, unfortunately the scholarships based on income are only for students paying full UK undergraduate tuition fees.
There may be scholarships available based on your academic achievement.
You can still apply for a scholarship before you have applied for means-tested government funding, however, our funding team needs the final assessment of your household income provided by the Student Loans Company before it can confirm if you are eligible or to make a payment
You can still apply for a scholarship before you have applied for means-tested government funding, however, our funding team needs the final assessment of your household income provided by the Student Loans Company before it can confirm you are eligible.
For 2024 entry, your income assessment, carried out by the Student Loans Company (SLC), must be finalised by 18 October 2024, with all required evidence submitted and received to SLC by 4 October 2024.
This is so that the University is able to confirm you are eligible to receive any scholarship you have been provisionally awarded.
Failure to meet these deadlines could result in any scholarship offer being withdrawn.
You can apply for a scholarship based on household income before you have an offer to study at Leeds.
Our pre-entry application deadlines are early so we can try to give you a provisional decision as quickly as possible.
However we realise that not everyone will have received an offer decision at this point.
If you are subsequently not offered a place at Leeds, your scholarship application will simply be withdrawn.
The important thing is that you submit your scholarship application form by the relevant deadline.
Please see the terms and conditions for the academic achievement scholarships for details of eligibility criteria.
Late applications cannot be accepted for scholarships based on household income.
The application form will be on our webpages until 12pm, 31 May 2024 to give you plenty of time to apply.
It will depend on your circumstances, but we recommend you contact the funding team as soon as you are aware of any delay.
The funding team can provide assistance on a one-to-one basis by contacting the SLC with you.
Information relating to scholarships does change from time to time.
Whilst the University endeavours to keep this information as up to date as possible, it cannot be held liable for any inaccuracies.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-funding-government/doc/student-loans:
Find out what support is available through student loans to help fund your time at university.
If you are an eligible UK undergraduate student (whether full-time or part-time), you will be able to get a loan from the government to cover the full amount of your tuition fees.
You can apply for a tuition fee loan regardless of what your household income is.
If you take out this loan, the Student Loans Company will pay your tuition fees directly to the University each year.
The tuition fee loan is repayable.
However, you will not have to start paying it back until after you graduate or leave your course and, only then, if your income is over the repayment threshold.
Find out more about repaying student loans .
Your eligibility for a loan depends on a range of factors.
Check if you are eligible for a tuition fee loan .
Please note that students on a Degree Apprenticeship programme continue to receive a salary from their employer and have their fees paid directly to the University, so they do not qualify for student loans.
Read more about tuition fee loans for full-time students on the GOV.UK website.
If you are a part-time student, you may be eligible for a loan, depending on your nationality or residency status.
You will need to register on a Higher Education course lasting for at least one year, such as a:
You will also need to be studying at least 30 credits a year (25% of a full-time course).
You may not be eligible if you have already studied on a higher education course.
Read more about tuition fee loans for part-time students on the GOV.UK website.
You may be eligible to apply for a maintenance loan to help with your day-to-day living costs at university.
If you take out this loan, the Student Loans Company will pay your maintenance loan directly to you in instalments, usually at the start of each term.
The maintenance loan is repayable.
Your eligibility for a maintenance loan depends on a range of factors.
Check if you are eligible for a maintenance loan .
Read more about maintenance loans for full-time students on the GOV.UK website.
To qualify for a part-time maintenance loan, you must meet all of the eligibility criteria and be studying on an eligible part-time course at Leeds.
Eligible courses are courses leading to a degree level (Level 6) qualification, such as a:
The following part-time courses do not meet the course eligibility criteria:
Read more about maintenance loans for part-time students on the GOV.UK website.
You can register and apply for tuition fee and maintenance loans at the website most relevant to you from the following list:
If you are a part-time student, you will need to know your tuition fee charge for the coming year.
Part-time fees are charged proportionally to the full-time fee.
You can apply for student finance using the details of your first choice university.
If any of your details change, including the University you are attending or the course you are studying, you can update your student loan application online.
Remember to apply for student finance in plenty of time to make sure your funding is in place at the start of your course.
Once you have applied and been assessed, the relevant student finance awarding body will confirm the amount of funding you will receive.
If you are having difficulty applying for your funding, please email the Funding team via funding@leeds.ac.uk .
Islamic Sharia law prohibits 'Riba' – the paying and receiving of interest for profit.
Sometimes the inflation-only interest that is paid on student loans is seen as Riba (although not all Islamic scholars share this view).
Explore more information about student loans and Sharia Law .
For independent advice about student loans, see the following websites:

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-funding-government/doc/nhs-funding:
Students in nursing, midwifery and allied health professions (other than those subject to transitional arrangements) are able to access student loans to cover the cost of their tuition fees and means-tested support for living costs.
If you're planning to study medicine, dentistry, or social work, the funding you are entitled to may be slightly different from the standard package of funding available to other students.
Please see the following information for more details.
There is additional funding available for healthcare students through the NHS Learning Support Fund.
You can find details of the grant, including how to apply on the NHS BSA website Learning Support Fund page .
If you're taking a first degree in medicine or dentistry you can apply for the standard government loans and support package for the first four years of your course.
From year five onwards, you may be eligible instead for the NHS student bursary scheme.
Please see the NHS Student Bursaries website and the government website about NHS bursaries for the latest information.
Please visit the NHS Social Work Bursaries website .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-funding-government/doc/funding-disabled-students:
If you experience a disability you may be entitled to a grant to cover additional study costs.
The Disabled Students' Allowance (DSA) is a grant to help some disabled students cover any additional costs that arise as a direct result of a disability.
Other sources of financial help in addition to the standard student finance loans include:
More details are available on the government student disability help page or by visiting the UCAS website's disabled students page .
You can also visit our page about disability services and our funding for disabled students page for information on the University's guidance and support for disabled students.
For any specific questions regarding funding with academic support, students should email Disability Services via disability@leeds.ac.uk .
The University also has an access fund which provides funding for non-academic support .
Student Advice at Leeds University Union can support students in applying for specific disability-related funding.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-funding-government/doc/funding-students-dependents:
If you have children or adults who depend on you, you may be able to access government funding to provide extra financial support while you study.
You can get individual advice from the Student Advice Centre in Leeds University Union about whether financial support is available.
Our Lifelong Learning Centre has information about the practical help we offer, including childcare, accommodation for families, and campus facilities for students with young children.
If you are studying an undergraduate full-time course, you could be eligible for the Childcare Grant and Parents’ Learning Allowance .
If you are studying an undergraduate full-time course, you may be able to apply for the Adult Dependants' Grant .
You cannot apply for the Adult Dependents’ Grant if you are taking out a postgraduate loan.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-campus-city-life:
Discover a lively, multicultural city in the centre of the UK with a leading reputation in business, culture and sport
Leeds is one of the country's largest and fastest-growing cities and has a leading reputation in business, culture and sport.
Our campus is just a 10-minute walk from the vibrant city centre, which offers a wide range of places to visit, eat and shop , but is also compact and easy to get around with regular public transport services.
Leeds is well connected, nationally and internationally, with excellent transport links.
It’s only 30 minutes from Leeds Bradford international airport and one hour from Manchester airport.
The city is well-connected to other parts of the country by rail and you can reach London in just over two hours.
Video transcript: Leeds city tour
Audio described version of Leeds city tour video
Watch Leeds city tour video on Bilibili
Whatever your interests, there is plenty to explore in Leeds, from the thriving arts and culture scene to sport and places to visit.
Leeds is a friendly, multicultural city for international students and staff.
Find out the best places to go to feel at home.
Explore some of the best Leeds landmarks and places to visit in the city centre and surrounding area.
Studying in Leeds is a great opportunity to explore Yorkshire's many stunning locations.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-student-life/doc/students-union:
You’ll join one of the best and most active students’ unions in the country.
Its mission is to make sure you love your time at Leeds.
Leeds University Union (LUU) brings together our student community and is 100% student-led.
With more than 1,000 student reps, you can be sure your voice will be heard on the things that matter to you.
The Union building is in the middle of campus.
It’s a place where you can meet, work, socialise and relax.
There are shops, cafes, bars, clubs and flexible spaces where you can organise your own event.
Top bands and artists play there too.
LUU is independent of the University of Leeds and offers free and impartial help and advice if things don't go quite to plan.
You can also find part-time work through Joblink .
“I spend most of my free time in the societies.
It’s a great way to relax and there’s a real sense of community.
I’ve made lots of friends through the K-pop dance society and this has exposed me to different cultures.”
Leeds University Union runs more than 300 student-led clubs and societies , so you’ll find something whatever your interests.
Football, debating, theatre, gaming, dance, photography and even skydiving are just a few of your options.
There are also different national and faith societies too.
If you and your friends want to take part in an activity which doesn’t have a club, the Union will help you set one up.
They’re a great way to meet new people and create some amazing memories.
You’ll also develop valuable skills while you’re studying, like teamworking and leadership.
Most academic schools also have their own societies, so you can get to know people from other courses and year groups.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-student-life/doc/wellbeing-support:
You’ll have a network of wellbeing and support services dedicated to helping you get the most out of your time with us.
There are lots of resources and information available to support you.
Support and guidance on the student website can provide help when you need it.
You’ll find information about health concerns, disability support and more.
You can also get professional and confidential support and advice through Leeds University Union’s student advice team .
The Union also provides peer-to-peer support through student-run helplines and online community groups.
All their help is free and completely independent of the University.
You’ll be assigned an academic personal tutor who you’ll meet regularly throughout your studies.
They will help you adjust to studying at university and guide your academic and personal development.
You can access free professional and confidential counselling, wellbeing and mental health support through groups, workshops, single-session consultations, short-term counselling and online self-help resources.
If you need longer term support or treatment, we’ll help you find the most appropriate National Health Service (NHS) or voluntary sector services.
If you’re a disabled student, we’ll work with your academic school and other University services to ensure that we meet your needs and put in place any reasonable adjustments to support you with your studies.
Additional funding might be available to pay for specialist academic-related support and equipment.
Don’t wait until you start your course; email Disability Services via disability@leeds.ac.uk so we can discuss your needs and additional arrangements.
If you are currently in care, have experience of being in care or are estranged from your parents (meaning you have no relationship or physical or financial support from them), you could benefit from extra support.
Find out more on our care-experienced and estranged students page .
There are spaces on campus for prayer and quiet contemplation .
If you practise a faith, you can be confident you’ll be able to follow your beliefs in Leeds.
Leeds University Union's clubs include faith-related student societies you can join.
We’ve been welcoming international students for over 100 years, so you can be sure of experienced help and support.
Our team of immigration experts can give you free advice on immigration law and requirements.
They can also help you with the visa application process.
We have overseas offices in China, Nigeria, South Asia and Southeast Asia, as well as a global network of representatives who can advise you about studying here.
Find out how to contact a representative in your country or region .
Our prepare for Leeds pages will help you arrange your journey to Leeds.
We offer an airport pick-up service from Leeds Bradford and Manchester Airports on key dates.
You will also be invited to international orientation , a free programme of talks, tours, events and social activities to help you settle into life in Leeds.
This is the ideal way to find out more about the opportunities available at Leeds, meet people and start making connections.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-student-life/doc/sport-fitness:
Whether you want to keep fit, play sport socially or compete at a high level, you’ll find everything you need at Leeds to keep active and feel your best.
You’ll get discounted access to our indoor sports facility on campus, The Edge .
If you’re living in university accommodation you’ll get free Edge Club membership and can choose to upgrade your membership if you’d like more flexibility.
It has a 250-station gym, a 25m swimming pool, sauna and steam rooms and a climbing wall.
There are also squash courts and sports halls where you can play badminton, netball, five-a-side football and more.
There are also studios offering a variety of exercise classes during term time.
You could also access the dedicated personal training and strength and conditioning rooms with qualified trainers available when you need some extra motivation.
You could make use of our excellent outdoor sports facilities at nearby Sports Park Weetwood and Bodington Playing fields , including a 1.6km lit outdoor cycling circuit.
Our outdoor centre in the Yorkshire Dales is perfect for activities like hiking, caving, mountain biking and climbing.
There’s also a boat house next to Thwaite Mills in Stourton with direct access to the canal for rowing.
At Leeds you’ll be able to get involved in sports clubs and societies whatever your ability or ambition.
You could get involved in a range of activities from surfing to dance to martial arts.
Our Get Out, Get Active programme gives you a chance to meet new people while exploring the beautiful Yorkshire countryside.
You could also develop new skills with our top-quality coaching, officiating and leadership programmes , or get in involved a local or international community sports project.
If you’re an elite athlete, our Sports Scholarship programme will support you to achieve academic and sporting excellence.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-career/doc/careers-support:
A degree from Leeds and the experience you'll gain here will give you the edge to find the career you want.
Your course will give you the experience and knowledge that employers are looking for to help you secure a graduate job.
Our Careers Service could give you help to find work experience, advice for job applications and interviews, access to events and access to exclusive job opportunities.
You will be able to access support from the beginning of your time at Leeds through to after you have graduated.
The service offers a daily drop-in service, one-to-one appointments and a job site featuring hundreds of vacancies targeted at our students.
4th most targeted university by the UK’s top graduate employers
As a Leeds graduate, you would be highly sought after by employers.
Organisations including Teach First, Accenture, IBM, the United Nations, Jaguar Land Rover, John Lewis and Unilever regularly visit our campus to recruit Leeds students.
Our approach to teaching aims to train our students to be independent and to think critically; skills in high demand by employers.
Our employment strategy will put you one step ahead in an increasingly competitive job market.
You’ll be encouraged to start planning your career earlier and more effectively.
If you choose to go onto postgraduate study you will join a thriving postgraduate community of over 7,000 students and you will be working alongside internationally recognised research teams.
If you are a University of Leeds graduate you may be eligible to receive a 10% alumni bursary towards your postgraduate fees .
Our global network of alumni includes more than 250,000 people from over 180 different countries.
As a graduate you will benefit from access to lifelong careers advice and job information.
You will have use of libraries, access to Leeds University Union facilities and a special membership rate at The Edge sports centre.
We also offer social and networking opportunities through our alumni events around the world.
University is all about learning and self-development, preparing you for the world beyond education.
Leeds helped me do this.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-student-opportunities/doc/enrichment-study-abroad:
Studying abroad as part of your degree is a life-changing and confidence-boosting opportunity like no other.
It’s your chance to experience another culture, make new friends and broaden your outlook on life.
Employers value graduates with international experience.
Being able to adapt to new surroundings and learning important life skills while studying abroad could put you ahead of the competition when you graduate.
We have one of the widest ranges of study abroad opportunities in the UK.
Most of our courses offer the chance to apply to study abroad, either for a short programme or for a full year.
You don’t need to be fluent in another language to study abroad – at many partner institutions the teaching is in English.
If you are keen to learn a language, our Language Centre is available to help you develop your language skills before you go.
Find out more about studying abroad or read student blogs about their experience of studying abroad.
We have over 300 university exchange partners worldwide – including many of the world’s top-ranking institutions in the USA, Canada, Europe, Australasia, Asia, South Africa and Latin America.
Studying abroad is popular so places for placement opportunities in some countries might be limited.
Destinations may change each year; when you’re ready to apply our Study Abroad team can help you to research which placement is best suited to you.
Video transcript: Study Abroad with the University of Leeds – Ben Barrett .
Short placements are a great chance to experience study and life in another country without taking a full year out.
You could take part in a subsidised summer school in locations such as Europe, Asia or Latin America.
Participating in a research programme abroad allows you to develop your research skills and knowledge in a specific area of interest, and gain valuable experience that can boost your professional profile.
Our fully-funded international leadership programmes provide the opportunity to develop your leadership skills and collaborate with students from around the world to tackle issues facing governments and societies.
Study Abroad placements may be eligible for a Turing Scheme grant.
The Turing Scheme is the UK government's programme to provide funding for international opportunities.
For more information please see the Turing Scheme pages on our Students website.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-student-opportunities/doc/work-experience:
You’ll have the opportunity to get work experience while studying at Leeds.
Gain real-world experience and the skills to stand out from the crowd, making you more employable when you graduate.
You’ll increase your confidence, develop commercial awareness, learn how to build professional networks and push your personal boundaries.
It’s also a great way to help you decide what kind of career you want when you graduate.
University of Leeds students are among the top 5 most targeted by top employers.
There are lots of ways you can gain work experience during your time at Leeds.
You could take part in:
You could work within the public, private or voluntary sector either in the UK or overseas.
Each year our students secure placements with prestigious organisations such as Goldman Sachs, L’Oréal, Airbus and Warner Bros, as well as small to medium enterprises (SMEs) and not-for-profit organisations.
You’ll also be able to apply for roles advertised exclusively to University of Leeds students.
Video transcript: Work experience at the University of Leeds

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-student-opportunities/doc/student-enterprise:
Whether you want to learn about enterprise or become an entrepreneur, we have a number of opportunities to help you get a head start.
You can study enterprise alongside a number of subjects as part of an undergraduate degree , giving you a firm understanding of business and entrepreneurship.
You may be able to take enterprise-related discovery modules as part of your course.
They’ll help you develop transferable skills such as commercial awareness, creative problem-solving, teamworking, leadership and communication – skills that top employers look for in graduates.
If you have an idea for starting your own business, Spark, our business start-up service , can help you develop your idea into a viable business.
Get access to:
If you’re a budding entrepreneur, you could apply for an Enterprise scholarship to help with business, training and transport costs.
Our annual Business plan competition also gives you the chance to win up to £2,000 to help you get started.
You could also join the Entrepreneurs Society to develop your skills and get practical experience.
View our student enterprise profiles to find out more about enterprise at Leeds.
I’ve returned to campus to share my experiences with current students.
I tell them, if you’ve an idea and passion, you can develop this, gain specialist knowledge, source funds, and it can turn into something much bigger.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-student-opportunities/doc/enrichment-volunteering:
More than 3,500 students at Leeds volunteer each year.
Volunteering is a great way to play an active part in the local community while enhancing your personal and professional development.
Not only is it rewarding and good for your wellbeing, volunteering allows you to explore career paths, develop skills and gain experience that will impress employers.
There’s a wide range of volunteering opportunities you could get involved in, both on and off campus.
Whether you’re passionate about climate change, the cultural sector or supporting vulnerable people, there are volunteering roles to support many causes.
No matter how much or little time you have, there are opportunities available to fit around your studies.
You could:
Read student profiles and case studies about volunteering
Explore volunteering opportunities at Leeds University Union
Find out about sport volunteering opportunities
If you’re a not-for-profit organisation in Leeds that would benefit from student volunteers, email the Volunteering Team at volunteer@leeds.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-learning-experience/doc/study-facilities:
The University Library at Leeds is one of the major academic research libraries in the UK.
Our four libraries on campus offer a variety of working environments to suit you and they’re open late seven days a week during term time.
In our Laidlaw Library, purpose-built for undergraduates, you’ll find dedicated library collections for your subject areas.
You’ll also have:
Through your University account you’ll have access to the best technologies and services to support your studies.
You’ll benefit from:
Learn a new language through our Language Centre .
as part of your course.
Being able to speak another language boosts your employability and opens up new opportunities to work or study abroad.
If you want to improve your language skills or learn a new language by yourself, you can access free learning resources in more than 50 languages from our Language Centre .
If English isn’t your first language, you can improve your academic English level and prepare for university study with our undergraduate pre-sessional English course , available before you start.
And once you’ve started your main academic course, you can access workshops and advice to continue improving your academic English language skills.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-learning-experience/doc/learning-teaching:
Investigate, challenge and discover things as an active learner in your course.
Fully immerse yourself in your subject and develop skills for your future, such as collaboration, problem-solving and critical thinking.
We’ll start you on your learning journey and support you every step of the way.
You’ll study among inspirational academics, influential thinkers with a real passion for your subject.
Our globally recognised research feeds directly into your course, so you benefit from the latest knowledge and thinking.
Strong links with industry, commercial and cultural sectors, and experience as practitioners and consultants provides real-world insight to our teaching.
You’ll have many opportunities to shape your learning experience to suit your passions and goals.
Optional modules allow you to tailor your course to your own areas of interest.
Discovery modules (available on many of our courses) let you explore areas beyond your subject.
We want our learning community to be creative together and think about problem solving from different angles, bringing your own perspectives and cultural backgrounds, to work in partnership in the classroom – debating, challenging and exploring new knowledge together.
You’ll learn how to question and discover, helping you to become an independent critical thinker in the process.
This will help you to identify problems and find answers to them, skills which graduate employers frequently value.
You’ll harness the academic, professional and digital skills rooted in your subject area that are relevant to your future goals and ambitions.
All of the skills you develop will align to the needs of society and employers, equipping you to make a positive impact on our world.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate/doc/contact-us:
If you have questions about studying at Leeds, or for help with courses, applications, scholarships and more, here’s how to get in touch with us.
If you have an enquiry about your course or entry requirements, please email the Admissions Office via study@leeds.ac.uk or use Course Search to get in touch with the relevant admissions team using the contact details listed on each course page.
For contact information for the University's overseas offices, plus advice about preparing for university, travel, immigration and life in Leeds, visit the International contacts page .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-offer/doc/what-happens-results-day:
We’ve put together some helpful information to help you prepare for your next steps on your journey to university.
If you have any queries about your place, you may find the answer within our frequently asked questions .
If you’ve already had your results and confirmed your place, find out your next steps .
You can also check our Welcome Guide for practical information and advice.
Most UK exam results are sent directly to UCAS from the awarding bodies, so you should first log in to UCAS to check if you’ve been accepted by your firm or insurance choice.
You’ll need your UCAS personal ID to do this, so make sure you have it handy.
If you’re studying an international qualification , you’ll need to email your results to us as soon as you receive them.
If UCAS hasn’t been updated as expected and you’re not sure if you have a place, email the admissions team for your course – you can find their contact details in your offer letter or on Course Search .
Remember that universities are not allowed to tell you your results – you need to receive them from your school or college before you contact us.
When UCAS has updated there are a couple of scenarios you may see.
This will happen if:
If UCAS shows that you’ve been accepted at Leeds, your place has been confirmed and there’s no need to contact us.
Don’t worry, you still have options.
If you narrowly missed the offer conditions for your original course, we may offer you an alternative course — you’ll see this when you log into UCAS.
If you don’t want to accept this course, you can decline the offer.
If you decline the offer and we were your firm choice, you’ll have a place on your insurance course, providing you met the conditions of the offer.
If we were your insurance choice and you decline the alternative course, you’ll enter Clearing.
Your next steps will depend on the changes you want to make.
This may be possible, but it will depend on the course you are planning to study.
To check if a change of year is possible, email the relevant admissions team using the contact details on Course Search .
This will only be possible if the course you want to move to has availability.
To check, you should first speak to the admissions team for the course you want to move to using the contact details on Course Search .
It’s important that you speak to the university you want to move to first, to ensure they can accept you on to a course.
Once you have confirmation of a place, you can release yourself into Clearing using the ‘decline your place’ button on UCAS.
Remember, you can’t choose to decline your firm choice on results day to join your insurance choice instead.
If you decline your firm choice then you’ll enter Clearing, so you should only do this if you’re sure you don’t want to take up your firm place.
Not all courses are available in Clearing, so make sure you check beforehand and don’t release yourself into Clearing before you have a confirmed offer so you’re not left without a place.
If you want to withdraw your application altogether, you should get in touch with the admissions team for your course using the contact details on Course Search .
If you’re unhappy with one or more of your grades and intend to appeal your result, you should speak to your school or college and email the admissions team for your course using the contact details on Course Search .
If your grades change following your appeal, and you now meet the conditions of your offer, we’ll typically hold your place until 3 September 2025, excluding clinical courses within the schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Healthcare, for which the deadline is 31 August 2025.
However, we can’t guarantee that we’ll be able to accept you for 2025 entry if the course you’ve applied for is full.
You can find the email address for your course’s admissions team on Course Search and in your offer letter.
Please also make sure you keep your contact details up to date in your UCAS profile.
We recommend using a personal email address rather than a school or college email address so that you don’t miss any emails from us.
We also recommend adding study@leeds.ac.uk to your Safe Senders list to prevent emails going into your junk email folder.
Find out more about joining over 16,200 international students at Leeds.
Learn more about your subject of interest and improve the skills you’ll need for successful study.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/homepage/243/undergraduate-online-events-and-recordings:
Study at Leeds: Discover the UK as a study destination webinar
Access our recorded webinar at a time that suits you.
Our webinar is for prospective international undergraduate students who are considering pursuing a Bachelor's degree in the UK.
Hear from staff and students about the benefits of studying in the UK, the opportunities and student life at the University of Leeds.
You will also find out more about the application process and get tips for a successful application.
Watch the webinar on Bilibili
Watch recordings of talks from our Undergraduate Open Days to find out more about life in Leeds.
Will you be over 21 when applying to university?
Find out more about our free events.
We regularly attend overseas events and fairs to advise prospective students about life in Leeds.
Discover what Leeds has to offer and see for yourself how one day could change your life at our 2025 undergraduate Open Days.
Discover the highlights of our beautiful campus, social spaces and outstanding academic facilities in our 360 virtual tour.
Want to know more about life at Leeds?
Chat to our undergraduate students to get your questions answered.
Whatever your interests, there is plenty to explore in Leeds.
Our unique single-site campus is like a small town with lots of green spaces and it's just a short walk from the city centre.
Read more about it.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/access-to-leeds:
You could be eligible for an offer with lower entry requirements than listed on our course pages.
If you have made your UCAS application, you can apply now.
Access to Leeds is our contextual admissions programme for UK undergraduate applicants.
It offers additional consideration for applicants based on their personal circumstances.
If you join us through Access to Leeds, you will benefit from:
Applications for Access to Leeds will open on 22 September 2025 and the application form will be available on this page.
To be considered, you must complete the form as soon as possible after submitting your UCAS application.
Check if you are eligible for the programme.
Applications open on 22 September 2025.
Find out how to apply.
Funding helped me join the Boxing Society, which grew my confidence and has transformed my university experience.
Access to Leeds helped me join a degree course which could have been out of reach.
A degree opened my eyes to new possibilities for a future career.
Video transcript of Discover your potential at the University of Leeds .
Watch the audio described version of Discover your potential at the University of Leeds .
Find out about student loans and funding such as bursaries and scholarships based on your personal circumstances, household income or academic achievement.
Find out more about our foundation year courses for UK students.
Our students share their experience of Access to Leeds and how it prepared them for undergraduate study.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate/dir-record/profiles/15413/ellie-sleightholm:
Ellie loves space and jumped at the chance to do a remote placement with the UK Space Agency but she didn’t expect to develop a new passion.
“On my placement I got the opportunity to learn programming and how to code.
The experience incorporated so many transferable skills and encouraged me to think analytically, which will really help in the final year of my maths degree and beyond.
“It was such a phenomenal experience, I started my own business to inspire others to learn how to code.
“Working with people who had lots of experience in industry just blew me away and it’s helped me to become so much more confident.”

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate/dir-record/profiles/15400/rohan-cheerala:
Rohan had heard lots of things about Leeds being one of the best student cities.
He hasn’t been disappointed.
“The campus is really close to the city centre and I like how handy everything is.
I can walk into town to grab some shopping or meet some friends for a bite to eat.
The Calls is one of my favourite places, as there are loads of lively riverside bars and restaurants to experience.
“I love being outdoors and exploring different hikes and trails – you can be in the Yorkshire countryside in less than 30 minutes, which is fantastic.”

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate/dir-record/profiles/15431/george-hobley:
Going to university wasn’t always on the cards for George but the support he got from Leeds has helped him to succeed in his studies.
“The University was there for me even before I started my course, which really settled my nerves and helped me understand more about studying for a degree.
“I joined Leeds through the Access to Leeds scheme and found the welcome events really useful.
The whole experience has been massive for my self-confidence.”
“The Plus Programme has been an ever-present force throughout my time at Leeds.
I was very fortunate that I got a scholarship.
The money helped me focus on academia, focus on getting a head start and doing the best I can.”

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate/dir-record/profiles/15161/jefferson-sanchez:
My lecturers were involved in the latest robotics research that impacts our lives in a big way – it’s an exciting area.
I learnt the theory in the classroom and then I got to apply it practically in the lab.
I fell in love with the course because I enjoy the hands-on element of working with electronics and mechanics.
For one of my projects, I designed a robotic arm for a drone that could pick up and place objects.
In the future, we’ll be able to use drones like these to deliver packages instead of using cars and vans.
For another project, I developed a telescope that automatically tracked the moon around the sky, similar to how telescopes used by NASA follow stars and planets automatically.
For every project I worked on, I had a supervisor to support me.
I worked with the support of Dr Chris Trayner from Electrical and Electronic Engineering, an expert in optical systems and electronics, to develop the automatic telescope.
He supported me in researching the right sensors and lenses to help me make the telescope work.
Over the next few years, robotics will change our society in big ways, whether it’s through drones or through things like automatic tractors to help make farming more efficient.
I love thinking outside the box, so if you're enthusiastic and you really want to learn something new with cutting-edge technology, then Leeds is the place to be.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-offer:
If your place is confirmed, you can now officially get excited about all the amazing things that your university experience will bring.
You've got a lot to look forward to at Leeds.
Joining our world top 100 university (QS World University Rankings 2026) means you’ll gain skills that will be valuable to you, personally and professionally, for years to come.
We’re here to help you make one of the most important decisions in your life that little bit easier.
Discover all we can offer you and what you need to do next.
Information to get you prepared to join us in Leeds after your place is confirmed.
Find out what to expect after your place at Leeds is confirmed.
Find out what happens next with university accommodation.
Read more about what financial support is available to help you through your studies.
We’ve been welcoming international students for over 100 years, so you can be sure of experienced support in helping you settle into university life.
You’ll live and learn alongside students from all over the globe, joining a welcoming and diverse community.
You’ll find everything in one place on our single-site campus, just a short walk from the city centre.
Leeds has one of the largest student communities in the country, making it an exciting place to live and learn.
At Leeds, you’ll have a network of wellbeing and support services dedicated to helping you.
“The support I got meant that I didn’t miss out on a university place.”
“Working with people who had lots of experience in industry just blew me away.”
“The campus is really close to the city centre and I like how handy everything is.”
“The people I met through joining clubs and societies made my university experience.”

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-teachers-advisors:
Keep updated on CPD, outreach opportunities and admissions information.
The Educational Engagement service works throughout the UK with schools and colleges to raise awareness of, and aspirations towards, higher education.
We offer an extensive programme of outreach initiatives and events which we deliver in schools, on campus and online to inspire and inform young learners about the variety of opportunities and routes open to them when considering, and applying to, university.
If you would like to book an activity, please email the Education Outreach team at educationoutreach@leeds.ac.uk .
We believe that all students with the potential to benefit from university should have an equal opportunity to do so, regardless of their personal circumstances.
Our aim is to widen access for under-represented groups, encouraging and supporting the brightest and best students progress to university and succeed in their studies and future careers.
We are making positive progress towards a fairer university through our Access and Student Success Strategy .
To stay up to date with our outreach opportunities and admissions information such as open days and application deadlines, please complete our quick form to join our mailing list .
Our presentations and interactive workshops for young learners in Year 7 to 13 can be held online, at the University, in schools and colleges and can be adapted to meet your needs.
Our programme of CPD teachers talks is available online or in person at your school or college.
Explore our online hub for pre-recorded talks, student blogs, study skills resources and upcoming live events.
Designed to help secondary school and college students prepare for university life and undergraduate study.
Help your students gain a taste of study at Leeds with our exciting Futurelearn courses and supporting materials for teachers.
Post-16 students can access our online activities and resources to help them excel in their research assignment.
Access to Leeds is our contextual admissions programme that offers additional consideration for applicants based on their personal circumstances.
Visit our Undergraduate pages for information on entry requirements, the admissions process, fees, funding and more.
Pre-recorded talks, student blogs and study skills resources to encourage young learners to think about the benefits of university, how and when to apply.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-parents-carers:
Sign up for tips and advice to help you support your child with their decisions on university, the application process and what to expect along the way.
We understand that as a parent, carer or guardian of someone who is thinking of studying at the University of Leeds, you may have your own questions about the University and higher education.
These pages provide information, advice and resources about the processes and considerations when applying to university.
Get tips and advice to help you support a young person thinking about going to university.
Learn more about the ways you can help, from researching universities, right through to preparing for life at Leeds.
We have compiled a list of questions which are frequently asked by parents.
For legal reasons we do not generally discuss students with their parents or guardians, partners or other family members.
We may occasionally provide family members with general information relating to the types of support we offer but we will not share information about a student unless we have permission to do so.
The decision to share will always be made in consultation with the student involved.
For further information regarding the University, our events and services, parents can contact our Education Outreach Team by emailing educationoutreach@leeds.ac.uk .
Our information for undergraduate applicants covers everything from courses and applying to funding and student support.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/masters-applying/doc/apply-masters-courses:
Applications for Masters courses open in October and are submitted online.
You will be able to track your application at each stage of the process.
This information is for entry in 2025.
Before you apply, we recommend you take some time to read the University of Leeds Admissions Policy 2026-27 .
If you are studying in the academic year 2025-26, read our University of Leeds Admissions Policy 2025-26 .
International applicants: If you are an international applicant, we recommend you use the services of our overseas representatives to make your application.
We also advise that you visit the UK government website to check the visa requirements for studying in the UK.
Our full list of Masters courses can be found in Course Search .
Course start dates and application deadlines vary, so please check the details of your chosen course before applying.
If no deadline is given, we advise applying by July where possible, particularly for international applicants who will require a visa to study in the UK.
If you intend to apply for funding, we advise that you submit your course application at least two months before any specific scholarship deadline.
Before you apply, please make sure that you will be able to meet the following requirements:
If you are still studying for the appropriate qualifications and have not yet met the entry requirements, you can usually still apply for a course.
You may receive an offer of a place on the condition that you meet the requirements before you start your course.
Applications open each October for courses starting in the next academic year.
To apply, submit an application using our online application portal .
You will be able to log in and track the progress of your application at any time.
There is no application fee.
If you experience any difficulties, please email the Admissions Enquiries team on study@leeds.ac.uk .
You can save your application at any point so you do not need to fully complete it in one session.
However, your application may be deleted after 180 days if you do not submit it within this time.
Make sure you have all your supporting documents scanned and ready to upload with your online application.
All documents should be in English, or accompanied by certified translations into English.
Required documents include:
Depending on the course you apply for, you may be asked to provide additional documents, such as:
If your course requires a personal statement, you will find guidance within the application form.
We advise that you write your statement separately and then either upload it as a document or copy the text into the application.
If your course does not require additional documents, there will be no option to provide them in the application form and there is no need to submit them separately.
When you apply, you may be required to nominate two referees who have knowledge of your academic and/or professional ability.
They should usually be a lecturer or supervisor at your last educational institution.
However, if you have been out of education for more than five years or are applying with evidence of work experience, it may be appropriate to choose work-related referees.
It is your responsibility to ensure that the referees you nominate are able and willing to provide a reference for you.
For some courses, you may be required to provide reference letters at the point of application in addition to the details of your referees.
Please check Course Search for any specific requirements for your course.
When reference letters are not required at the point of application, they will not be requested automatically from your referees when your application is submitted.
Instead, the admissions team will first assess your application to see if a decision can be made without references.
If references are needed, the admissions team will then email your referees using the details you provided.
Please note that for some courses we do not require any references, so you will not be asked to provide any referee details when you apply and there is no need to provide them separately.
For a small number of our courses, you will need to declare it when you apply.
Your academic school may contact you directly if they require any further information or wish to invite you for an interview or audition.
You will receive an email asking you to check your applicant portal for more details.
We aim to make decisions within six to eight weeks if all necessary documents have been received.
However, due to a very high volume of applications it may take longer for your application to be reviewed.
We will contact you as soon as an update is available.
If you have a scholarship deadline, please notify your academic school using the My Enquiries section of our online application portal and they will try to make a decision in time, where possible.
We will notify you of the outcome of your application by email and in the online application portal .
If your application is successful, you will be able to view your offer letter in the Decisions section of our online application portal.
Occasionally, the academic school may think that it is more appropriate to offer you a place on a different Masters course.
In this case, we will notify you of a change of course offer and you will be able to see the details by logging in to your applicant portal .
If you receive an offer, you can accept it in our online application portal .
If your offer is conditional, you must typically meet your offer conditions by six weeks before the start date of the course.
If you are an international applicant and you accept an unconditional offer, we will ask you to pay a tuition fee deposit or provide appropriate exemption evidence by four weeks before the start date of your course.
If you will be taking a pre-sessional English language course at our Language Centre before your Masters degree, different deadlines apply.
For more details, please see our deadlines for pre-sessional English courses .
If you are not able to join the course this year and would like to join us for a future intake, you will need to reapply as we do not permit deferrals.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/masters-applying/doc/types-postgraduate-course:
We offer several different types of taught postgraduate courses.
Not all types are available in every subject – please check our Course Search for details.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/masters-fees/doc/tuition-fee-deposits-masters-applicants:
If you are a taught postgraduate applicant who requires a Student visa to study in the UK, you will need to pay a tuition fee deposit of £2,000 in order to receive a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS).
Deposits guidance is subject to change each year.
This information is for applications for entry in September 2025.
For information for applications for entry in September 2024, please see our deposits guidance for 2024 .
We will ask you to pay the deposit after you have met all your academic and English language conditions and accepted your unconditional offer.
The deposit will be deducted from your course tuition fee and included in your CAS, which will ensure that visa officials know you have made an advance payment.
Please note: Taught postgraduate applicants in the School of Dentistry who do not need a Student visa are also required to pay a deposit.
Special rules apply; please see Course Search for details.
You do not need to pay the tuition fee deposit if:
After you have accepted an unconditional offer, the University will email you to confirm your acceptance and request your deposit payment or exemption evidence.
Please do not pay before you have received this email.
If you will be studying a taught postgraduate course only, you must pay the deposit or provide acceptable exemption evidence by four weeks before your course start date.
Please do not pay when your offer is conditional.
If you will be studying a summer pre-sessional English course on campus at the University of Leeds Language Centre before your Masters programme, we may invite you to pay the tuition fee deposit before you have met the academic conditions of your Masters offer.
This is to help you to receive a CAS in good time.
However, we recommend that you only pay if you are certain to meet your offer conditions.
Please refer to our deadlines for pre-sessional courses page for deposit payment and exemption evidence deadlines.
Meeting the deadline does not guarantee that you will be able to arrive in time for the start of your course.
For this reason, you are advised to pay the deposit or provide appropriate exemption evidence as soon as possible after accepting your unconditional offer.
It is your responsibility to ensure that you have enough time to apply for a visa, travel to the UK and commence your studies on time.
You should only pay the tuition fee deposit if you have the funds in place to pay your full tuition fee.
The deposit is not refundable in the event of an unsuccessful funding application.
If you are reliant on a scholarship or sponsorship award, we advise that you do not pay the deposit while you await the outcome of your funding application, as you may not be eligible for a refund.
We will send you an email to inform you of a Deposit and Exemption message in the application portal .
You will need to respond to this message to confirm that you will be paying the deposit.
You will then see a new section in the application portal called ‘My CAS payments’, where you will need to read and agree to the terms and conditions of the deposit process before you can proceed to the payment stage.
You can either pay by credit or debit card using our online payment system or pay in your local currency via Flywire (a payment service for student fees).
Flywire payment options vary between regions but may include bank transfers, card payments and electronic payments.
We do not accept direct bank transfers.
Please do not use third-party agents to transfer payments to the University of Leeds, as this significantly increases your risk of being exposed to financial crime.
It is possible to pay the deposit using more than one card, if needed.
When making your payment, please select ‘Tuition deposit’ as the payment type as this will help us to allocate your payment to your CAS.
Please allow three working days for your payment to be processed.
We will then send you a confirmation email and the payment will be visible in the ‘My CAS payments’ section of your portal.
You do not need to notify us once you have paid.
You can pay more than the deposit if you wish, but please still select ‘Tuition deposit’ as the payment type as this will help us to allocate your payment to your CAS.
Your offer will remain valid until the deadline to pay the deposit or provide exemption evidence has passed.
As the deposit is a non-refundable payment (unless otherwise stated in these FAQs), paying the deposit shows your commitment to the University of Leeds and enables your application to proceed to the stage where you can receive a CAS and register for your course.
You will not need to pay a second deposit towards your Masters course once you have completed the summer pre-sessional.
You may receive an automated message asking you to pay again when your Masters offer becomes unconditional, but a confirmation of payment email will follow shortly.
The deposit is typically non-refundable.
Therefore, you should only pay if you have funds in place for the entirety of your studies and if you are certain that you will be able to arrive in Leeds in time for the start of the course.
This includes allowing sufficient time to make your Student visa application and, if applicable, your ATAS (Academic Technology Approval Scheme) application.
Your right to a deposit refund is limited to the following circumstances:
We may also consider a refund if we asked you to pay the deposit towards a summer pre-sessional course but you then did not meet the conditions of your Masters offer and did not study with us.
However, we recommend that you only pay the deposit if you are certain to meet the Masters offer conditions.
We will not consider a refund request made on any other grounds.
If you have not adhered to the ‘Applicant and student responsibilities’ detailed in our Admissions Policy , resulting in the University withdrawing your place, this does not constitute grounds for a refund.
Unless your fees are being paid in full by a sponsor, if you receive a deposit refund your course offer will be withdrawn and cannot be reinstated.
You must submit your refund request through the Enquiries section of the application portal , along with any supporting evidence, by the deadline of 10 November 2025.
We will not consider any refund requests relating to applications for September 2025 entry received after this date.
If your request is approved, we will try to issue your refund within 28 days, though please note that bank processing times can vary and are out of our control.
A refund can only be made to the account from which the original payment was made.
By paying your tuition fee deposit, you are agreeing to this refund policy.
You will need to respond to this message to confirm that you are fully funded and provide a final award letter or financial guarantee as proof.
We are not able to exempt you on the basis of a scholarship application or conditional award letter.
If you do not have a final award letter at the point of receiving the Deposit and Exemption message, please wait until you are able to provide it before responding.
If your sponsor will be paying the funds to you instead of to the University, we will class you as self-funding and you will need to pay the deposit.
For deposit exemption purposes, your award letter or financial guarantee must:
You must also provide your letter to our Student Fees team when you register as a student, so that your sponsor can be invoiced, and additional criteria may apply at that time.
For more information, please see our fees guidance for sponsored students .
If your scholarship covers only part of your tuition fee, you will need to pay the deposit.
If the amount you will be paying yourself is less than £2,000, you will need to pay your portion alongside providing your sponsor letter in order to receive a CAS.
You can let us know that you will be receiving the US Federal Loan in response to the Deposit and Exemption message in the application portal , but there is no need to provide any evidence.
As this funding is arranged internally by the University, you will automatically be exempted from paying the deposit once your loan is confirmed.
You will need to provide evidence of your alternative immigration status, such as a passport, share code or visa, in response to the Deposit and Exemption message in the application portal .
We will issue your CAS as soon as we can after you have accepted your unconditional offer, supplied any requested information (eg passport details) and either paid your tuition fee deposit or provided appropriate evidence of full funding.
You do not need to contact us to request a CAS.
Under Home Office rules, the earliest that we can issue a CAS is six months before the start of your course.
The University reserves the right not to assign a CAS if there will not be enough time for you to arrive in Leeds by the latest possible start date for your course.
You should not wait for your CAS before starting to prepare the required information and documents, including financial evidence, for your visa application, to ensure that you are able to apply at the earliest opportunity.
For further information about visas, please see our Student visa application guidance .
You can contact us through the ‘Enquiries’ section of the application portal or email the Admissions Enquiries team at study@leeds.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/masters-fees/doc/fees-masters-fees:
Masters fees are set on a course-by-course basis with fees information available on individual course pages.
Postgraduate fees are not regulated by the UK government so decisions on UK undergraduate fees do not apply to postgraduate fees.
Our postgraduate fees are set independently and reviewed on an annual basis.
Find out when to pay your fees and the payment options we offer .
If you are a Masters applicant to Leeds who needs a Student visa to study in the UK, you will need to pay a tuition fee deposit .
If you are a former student of the University of Leeds you may be eligible for a 10% alumni tuition fee bursary .
If you are studying part-time, the full-time fee is generally split so payment is divided equally across each year of study.
For example if your part-time course is two years long you will pay half each year.
However, this is not always the case so please check with the admission team for your course.
If your course is 100% online, you may be able to pay on a module-by-module basis.
Please check with the admissions tutor for your chosen course - contact details are listed for each course.
The majority of part-time postgraduate Masters fees are fixed at the point of entry and will not rise in subsequent years of the course.
This means you can more easily plan your finances at the outset.
You are classified as either a "home" or "international" student for the purpose of assessing tuition fees.
Only certain categories of students will be charged the "home" tuition fee.
Where it is not clear from your application form whether you have "home" or "international" status, we will carry out a fees assessment.
For further information and advice, you can consult the UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) .
The information provided is for general guidance purposes only.
The University believes the information provided is accurate at the time of publication.
The University cannot accept liability for any inaccuracies.
Find out more about how to pay your tuition fees on our website For Students.
Read more about tuition fee liability on our website For Students.
If you have a question about fee payment contact the Student Fees team:
If you are supported by your government, employer, or other sponsor, you should provide a letter from them addressed to the University, confirming that the fees will be paid directly.
Sponsors cannot pay by instalments.
For more detail, see our information for sponsored students on our For Students website.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/masters-fees/doc/paying-online-courses:
This page outlines how to pay for online postgraduate courses with the University of Leeds, including module by module payments, postgraduate loan payment plans, and payments by sponsors.
Fees for each course are available on Course Search .
You will need to confirm how you will be paying your fees before you register for the course.
Some of our online courses allow you to pay your fees module by module.
Artificial Intelligence Postgraduate Certificate
Artificial Intelligence Msc
Data Science (Statistics) Msc
Disability Studies, Rights and Inclusion Postgraduate Certificate
Disability Studies, Rights and Inclusion  Postgraduate Diploma
Disability Studies, Rights and Inclusion Msc
Engineering Management Postgraduate Certificate
Engineering Management Msc
Global Health MSc
Sustainable Business Leadership Postgraduate Certificate
Sustainable Business Leadership Msc
If your course fees can be paid module by module, the fee payments break down as follows:
You can pay for a module through our online store by credit card or PayPal.
You will need your student number.
Please note, if you are receiving a postgraduate student loan, or are being sponsored as a student (for example by your employer) and require an invoice you will not be able to pay your fees module by module.
If you are receiving a postgraduate student loan from the Student Loans Company you can set up an instalment plan in line with your loan payments.
This instalment plan will be available once we have received confirmation from the Student Loans Company that your loan has been approved.
The postgraduate loan instalment plan is three instalments by direct debit from a current account.
Payments are taken on the first of the month:
If your fees are being paid by a third party or organisation (for example employer) and they require an invoice, payment needs to be made upfront for each year of study and you will need to follow the fees process for sponsored students .
If your online course does not allow module by module payments, you cannot make payments through the online store and must follow the standard University of Leeds payment procedures .
Courses that allow module by module payments

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/masters-scholarships-bursaries/doc/university-scholarships-1:
The University of Leeds offers a range of scholarships to help fund your Masters studies.
Worth £7,000, this scholarship aims to help students from under-represented groups to study a Masters qualification and is based on your personal circumstances.
Check your eligibility for Leeds Masters Scholarships.
£6,000 fee reduction scholarships are available for international students from an eligible region commencing studies in September/October 2025.
These scholarships are designed to help ease the cost of living, allowing you to focus on your education and achieve your full potential.
Explore International Masters Regional Scholarships.
Depending on your course, you may be eligible for additional funding from your School or Faculty.
Our subject-related scholarships are offered as full or partial fee waivers, with academic achievement as the main awarding criteria.
Explore subject-related scholarships.
Two sports scholarships programmes are also available to support elite athletes as they combine academic and sporting excellence during their time at the University.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/masters-scholarships-bursaries/doc/alumni-bursary:
To be eligible you must:
The University will review the bursary annually and reserves the right to vary or withdraw this bursary at its sole discretion but changes will not be applied retrospectively.
You must advise the University if at any time (before or after you register on your course) you obtain funding for your tuition fees from sponsors whether this is paid directly to the University or to yourself as a contribution to your tuition fees.
A sponsor is an employer or other industry or business sponsor, government, research council, charity or other third party organisation.
If you are found to be in breach of your commitments, in any way have not acted in good faith, or have not responded fully or accurately to a University request for information, the University is entitled to immediately suspend a bursary.
It may also then recover the 10% previously paid.
The University will pay 10% of the self-funded portion of your tuition fees.
The bursary will not be applied in the overtime (writing-up) period for research degree students, taught students who are re-sitting examinations or student visitors registering and undertaking miscellaneous study.
The alumni bursary can be awarded in conjunction with other University of Leeds scholarships and awards.
If you think you are eligible you need to email the relevant School or admissions contact for the course you have applied for.
If you are a Masters student you can search for these in Course Search .
For PGR applicants please contact the relevant PGR Admissions team .
In the email, you will need to provide information regarding your former studies, the course you have applied for and how you are funded for your tuition fees.
We will need to verify that you are a former student and you will need to confirm that you have read the terms and conditions and are self-financing for your tuition fees.
You may be asked to provide evidence of your former University of Leeds award.
If your course is of more than one year's duration you will not have to re-apply for the bursary each year.
You are not eligible if you:
Yes, you are eligible.
It is the fact that you have a relevant award from the University of Leeds, not where you studied for the award, that makes you eligible.
The admissions team will be able to verify whether the college is/was an affiliated college of the University of Leeds.
The University allows registration on to a research degree if you have completed all the requirements for a Masters degree but have not yet been awarded.
This is on the condition that you supply confirmation of the award at a specific date after commencing your research degree.
If you are in this situation, you are eligible to be considered for an alumni bursary.
No, if your tuition fees are fully-funded by a sponsor (for example, an employer, an industry or business sponsor, a government, a research council, a charity or another third party organisation), you are not eligible for the alumni bursary.
The alumni bursary is subject to annual review, and can be revised or removed at the University’s discretion for subsequent academic cycles.
No, if your course is for more than one year, you will not have to re-apply for the bursary each year.
Yes, you can receive the alumni bursary twice.
For each new programme of study you apply for you will need to reapply for the bursary, as different staff will be responsible for processing the admissions for the courses and the responsibility is on you to provide this information.
It has been agreed that the alumni bursary will not require repaying if you leave part way through your studies; it will be assessed pro-rata, to coincide with the procedure for calculating outstanding tuition fees.
This bursary is aimed at recognising the relationship we have with individual alumni and supporting self-financing students to undertake further study at Leeds.
Browse our University scholarships to see other scholarships and bursaries that may be available for postgraduate study.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/masters-additional-funding-support/doc/scholarships-charities-trusts:
Partners, trusts, charities and organisations may offer additional funding opportunities to support your Masters study.
Check your eligibility and find out how to apply:
A one-year, fully-funded scholarship for candidates applying for one of the eligible Chevening full-time taught Masters courses.
Deadline: Tuesday 7 October 2025, 11.59am UTC/GMT (midday UK time).
Check your eligiblity and apply for Chevening Scholarships .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/masters-additional-funding-support/doc/pglb-government-postgraduate-loans:
If you are ordinarily resident in England or the Republic of Ireland and planning to start your first full-time, part-time or distance learning taught or research Masters course you may be eligible to apply for a UK government Postgraduate Masters Loan to help towards your study-related costs.
The loan will be paid directly to you in three instalments in each year of study, and you can choose to use it towards payment of your tuition fee or to help with living costs.
To check your personal and course eligibility, see how much loan you will receive and find out how to apply for the UK government Postgraduate Masters Loan, visit the government’s Funding for Postgraduate Study page.
It is important to note that the loans are not available for Integrated Masters courses.
If you are funded by the Student Awards Agency for Scotland (SAAS) , Student Finance Wales or Student Finance Northern Ireland , the value, personal and course-related eligibility criteria and method of payment vary.
Scottish and Northern Irish applicants may also be eligible for funding for non-Masters programmes.
After you apply for postgraduate funding and it is approved, the Student Loans Company will notify the University that your funding is in place.
It can take a couple of days to update our student system with this information, so please wait two days before completing step 6 of online registration.
This means that you should be able to register without paying your tuition fee at the point of registration.
You will instead be required to set up an instalment plan to pay your tuition fee over three instalments, to coincide with the payment of your Postgraduate Masters loan.
If you have any problems with registering because your postgraduate funding isn’t in place you should email the Student Funding team via funding@leeds.ac.uk .
If you are having difficulty applying for your funding, please email the Student Funding team via funding@leeds.ac.uk .
Sometimes the inflation-only interest that is paid on study loans for is seen as Riba (although not all Islamic scholars share this view).
Explore more information about Sharia Law and study loans .
You can also search our fund your Masters pages.
Consumer advice site Money Saving Expert has guidance on postgraduate student loans.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/masters-your-career:
Enhance your career with a Masters from the University of Leeds.
We’ll help you build the skills and qualities that employers look for, supporting you during your studies and beyond.
Enhance your employability with industry placements and award-winning careers support, at a university that's the fourth most targeted by employers in the UK 
(High Fliers Graduate Market Report 2024).
We offer guaranteed industry experience for all on-campus students on taught postgraduate courses, giving you the opportunity to apply your learning to real-world challenges.
A Masters degree can help you to stand out in a competitive job market.
Our expert careers advisors can support you to shape your future.
We help you go further at Leeds by offering a range of opportunities so you’re ready for whatever you choose to do next.
I was learning from experts the whole time – at the University and on my work placement – which was a real privilege.
I joined Bentley Motors six years ago.
I was headhunted straight after I’d completed my Advanced Mechanical Engineering MSc at Leeds.
I had set up an online vintage store, so the enterprise element really appealed to me.
I knew everything that I learnt could be applied to developing my brand.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/masters-your-career/doc/industry-experience-boost-career:
Postgraduate study at Leeds develops your academic knowledge and gives you the experience and connections you need to accelerate your career.
We offer guaranteed industry experience for all on-campus students on taught postgraduate courses.
Our Global Industry Programme will give you the opportunity to apply your learning to solve real-world challenges.
With our programme you can gain consultancy experience with a UK or international organisation as part of your postgraduate study.
You’ll work with a business, developing skills to enhance your employability, building connections and gaining the hands-on experience companies are looking for.
Our fully online, flexible programme is designed to fit around your studies and is open to all subject areas, offering practical industry experience before you graduate.
You’ll build international, cross-cultural networks, with opportunities in areas including digital marketing, business growth, sustainability and artificial intelligence.
Working in a student team, you'll help a company solve a real business problem.
You’ll receive a live company brief, then research, analyse and develop solutions before presenting your findings in a professional consultancy report.
You’ll receive feedback on your work to enhance your skills and confidence, and graduate from the programme with a digital badge and certificate to boost your CV and showcase your experience.
These placements are guaranteed for all on-campus students on taught postgraduate courses, from all subject areas.
The programme will help you develop problem-solving, teamwork and other professional skills that will benefit you in any career, and prepare you to make a bigger impact in the world.
It was a really good experience, meeting some great people and interacting with a really interesting sustainability-related startup company.
It also helped me build conﬁdence with my ability to develop reports and professional communication skills with clients and my teammates.
You will have access to a range of career support throughout your studies, including:
Take part in opportunities to build confidence, connections and careers, including:
Learn more about career enhancement opportunities in the Careers section of the Students website .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/masters-your-career/doc/careers:
A Masters degree from Leeds can help you to stand out in a competitive and international job market.
Our courses will help you to develop your professional skills and advance in your chosen career.
A Masters degree can improve a range of skills that are highly sought after by employers.
If you’re thinking of an academic career, the advanced skills you acquire as a postgraduate will help prepare you for your next step as a researcher working towards a research degree , such as Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) or Master of Philosophy (MPhil).
If you study at Leeds you’ll have access to support and advice from our expert careers advisors.
Our Careers Service recognises the skills you’ll gain from a Masters degree and will help you to market yourself to employers.
You’ll be able to get a variety of support at Leeds including:
More than 650 national and international employers target our students and visit campus each year, including Teach First, PwC, Unilever, Leeds City Council, Marks and Spencer, Mars and Jaguar Land Rover.
During your time with us you can take advantage of professional development and networking opportunities such as workshops and academic seminars.
You can also develop industry links through our Alumni Leeds Network – a careers networking tool where you can find out about career opportunities from our alumni across the globe.
We have strong links with industry both in the UK and abroad.
We have close partnerships with leading organisations including Jaguar Land Rover, Opera North, Procter & Gamble, AstraZeneca, Unilever, Volvo and Yorkshire Water.
Many of our academics work closely with business and industry as consultants and practitioners and their knowledge will inform your education, ensuring it is relevant.
If you are considering starting your own business then we can support you.
Spark, our business start-up service , is based at our Careers Centre with a dedicated team of advisors who can help you develop your idea into a viable business.
This support includes:
•    business advice and mentoring •    access to grants and funding •    networking events and workshops.
Leeds has been a fantastic place for me – it’s given me a perfect balance of academic learning and work experience, with friends from all around the world.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/masters-your-career/doc/professional-development:
On your course you’ll gain in-depth subject knowledge.
You’ll also gain transferable skills such as critical thinking, team working, presentation skills and project management – skills that are highly valued by employers.
You’ll develop advanced research skills through your dissertation or final project and become a confident, articulate and highly employable graduate.
We work with you to make the most of your potential, so you have plenty to offer wherever you want to go.
Your faculty or school may run its own employability programme specific to your discipline, giving you access to industry advice, workshops and employer events.
Our award-winning Careers Service also has plenty of resources and support to help you understand your strengths and market yourself to employers.
Work placements, projects or fieldwork opportunities through your course allow you to develop industry relevant experience to boost your employability.
These experiences are a good way to develop professional skills and gain contacts that are relevant to your sector.
The Careers Service could also help you find an internship or work experience placement , allowing you to learn new skills, build your network of contacts and explore different career paths.
Video transcript: Masters internship at the University of Leeds – Ishan Lee
A fantastic way to enhance your employability and develop new skills is by volunteering – and it’s a rewarding way to make a difference.
We have loads of opportunities and thousands of student volunteers.
Check the Read more about the Leeds Volunteering Hub.
.
If you decide to continue onto a research degree after your Masters, we’ll give you the support you need.
You'll be able to access workshops on academic reading, referencing and researching and writing your dissertation.
The Library offers lots of support to help sharpen your skills .
You'll be able to get training in IT skills, time management and presentation skills.
You’ll also benefit from extensive online resources.
Build your connections and enhance your employability through our huge worldwide network of graduates.
As a student at Leeds you'll be able to tap into our community of over 312,000 Leeds alumni in 197 countries.
You’ll have access to a range of benefits and services, including the Leeds Network, an online career networking platform, where you can develop connections and receive advice and mentoring from Leeds alumni.
Our graduates help our students through:
Doing my Masters has allowed me to adapt and develop my design skill set unimaginably.
The University has lots of facilities available to students.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/masters-academic-experience/doc/academic-experience-learning-teaching:
Research is at the heart of your learning and feeds directly into our taught courses.
This means you’ll benefit from the latest knowledge and thinking in your subject area.
You’ll be taught by academics who are leaders in their field and are as passionate about your subject as you are.
They’ll challenge you and encourage you to explore, question and discover.
We're ranked in the top 100 in the world.
Studying for a Masters course will help you prepare for or boost your career.
You’ll develop transferable skills like critical thinking and analysis.
It can also provide you with an excellent grounding for a research degree.
We’re one of the largest research-based institutions in the UK providing a stimulating and exciting learning environment.
Our research expertise means we deliver teaching that’s informed by the latest discoveries, allowing you to deepen your understanding of your subject area.
Extensive research funding means we can invest in the best facilities and staff, to give you an inspiring learning environment.
Video transcript: Masters research at the University of Leeds
We’re a member of the prestigious Russell Group of research-intensive universities , and a member of the Worldwide Universities Network , a partnership of universities working together to drive international research collaboration and address issues of global significance .
Our research tackles big issues – from using microbubbles to fight cancer to developing self-repairing cities at our national robotics centre – this expertise feeds into your teaching.
You can make an impact through your own research and develop advanced research skills to shape your own research project.
The 2021 Research Excellence Framework It rated 90% of our submitted research as ‘world-leading’ or ‘internationally excellent’.
Many of our academic staff are also consultants and practitioners in their disciplines.
This means our courses reflect the needs of business and industry.
One of the ways we do this is through industry consultation through Industrial Advisory Boards.
They provide an employer’s focus on our courses, making sure they’re always up-to-date and relevant to industry.
Work placements are part of some of our courses and a good way to develop professional skills in industry.
If you have a business idea or want to develop entrepreneurial skills, there are a number of enterprise opportunities .
Alongside lectures, seminars and tutorials, you’ll explore your subject through private study and independent projects, laboratory practicals or fieldwork, depending on your course.
We’ve invested in digital technology to improve and support your learning experience.
Use our digitally-enhanced teaching spaces to interact with your lecturers and work with your fellow students.
Access video and audio recordings of some of your lectures to support your independent learning.
You can also study some courses with us through online and distance learning.
Check our course information to see if your course has flexible study options.
All our courses offer the same high standards of teaching and research-driven knowledge.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/masters-academic-experience/doc/academic-experience-facilities:
We’re continually investing in the best facilities to support you in your studies, from new laboratories and lecture theatres to our impressive libraries.
The University library is one of the major academic research libraries in the UK.
We are continually adding to its rich and extensive print and online resources, including some of the UK’s most outstanding collections of rare books and manuscripts.
Our library offers a variety of study environments.
The Brotherton, the Edward Boyle, the Laidlaw and the Health Sciences libraries each house a different subject-based collection.
Almost 4,000 study spaces are available, from silent individual study to vibrant group work areas.
All our libraries have extensive computer facilities and are wireless enabled.
Search our online resources including 35,000 e-journals and more than 500,000 e-books.
The library digitises key reading for modules through the virtual learning environment.
The postgraduate-only research hub in the Edward Boyle Library offers:
Our expert library staff are here to help you too.
They can advise you on searching for information, data management and more.
Their workshops, webinars and one-to-one appointments can help you improve your academic skills, such as critical thinking, dissertation writing, digital skills and time management.
Find out more about our libraries .
As a postgraduate at Leeds, you’ll have access to:
We have invested over £2m in a state-of-the-art lecture capture and multimedia management system.
You’ll be able to access video and audio recordings of many of your lectures through the University’s Virtual Learning Environment (VLE).
Through the VLE, you’ll also be able to view announcements, get module information, take part in discussion boards and check your grades.
Boost your employment prospects, learn another language or develop your academic English through our Language Centre .
It offers independent learning resources, English language courses, and English language and academic study skills support for international students through in-sessional classes and pre-sessional English language programmes.
At our Language Zone you'll find learning materials in more than 50 languages and expert support on hand.
If you want to practise your conversation skills, we have activities to connect you with native speakers and other students learning languages.
When I’m doing my research and reading I come into the library, then I’m not distracted.
I find the environment pleasant to work in especially on the upper levels.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/masters-campus-life/doc/global-university:
Join our global community, meet interesting people from across the world and develop your global outlook.
Our international approach will also feed into your studies, through internationally focused research and projects or teaching led by academics from all over the world.
If you are an undergraduate student you could choose globally-focused discovery modules or study abroad as part of your degree.
Leeds is ranked as the 31st most international university in the world
You can also join our student union societies, and celebrate the diversity of our campus during the annual World Unite Festival.
Learn more about a language, country or culture, and broaden your horizons, developing skills to prepare for your future.
Video transcript: Being an International Student at the University of Leeds
Develop your language skills by talking to native speakers of many languages on campus.
Join a group to practise the language you want to learn or talk to someone one-to-one.
You’ll have the support of our Language Centre , which will help you improve your language skills and develop your cultural awareness.
If you are a UK student or an international student, you could take part in our Intercultural Ambassadors programme.
As part of the programme you could run a project to inspire and connect people from different backgrounds and enrich their experience.
Make new friends and share your cultural heritage.
Get experience of teamwork, developing projects and managing activities.
Make the most of your University experience and prepare for your career with a range of work and volunteering opportunities .
Make friends with people from around the world at our weekly Global Caf é .
Practise a language and meet travelling companions and future holiday hosts.
We also hold themed events throughout the year to celebrate a student society, history month, holiday or to help you to learn a new skill.
You can also take part in the HOST programme , which sends international students into British homes across the UK for weekend or day visits.
It’s an opportunity to meet new people, share your culture and get a taste of what British life is like.
Find out about other intercultural experiences you can have at Leeds.
Visit the ways to meet people web pages , or email the Global Community team via globalcommunity@leeds.ac.uk .
The weekly Global Café in the students’ union was one of the first things I went to.
I met so many people from all over the world.
It’s really lovely – you talk to lots of people over biscuits and tea, and find people with the same interests as you.
Haleemah Alaydi, MA Writing for Performance and Publication

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/masters-offer:
We’re here to support you through your journey to Masters study.
Discover how we can help and what you need to do next.
A Masters degree at Leeds will provide you with a solid grounding for career progression, career change or further study.
Be part of a prestigious, research-intensive university in one of the UK’s most exciting and student-friendly cities.
QS World University Rankings 2026
View and accept your offer.
Learn more about your offer and how to accept.
Find out how we can support you if you're coming to study in the UK.
Find out how to fund your studies and make payments.
Explore accommodation options and find your new home.
Explore our welcoming campus and city.
Find out how we'll help you from the moment you arrive.
My Masters allowed me to learn so much more about the sector and gave me such an advantage in interviews and job applications.
My institute's reputation and my lecturer’s connections made it easier to get the data and information I needed from transport organisations.
Leeds is such a vibrant, engaging environment.
I value having real world challenges to solve and seeing how they are applied in real life.
The University offers a lot of help to international students.
Leeds has a good reputation and the teaching quality is very high.
Prepare for your studies with an online course before you start.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/masters-offer/doc/masters-your-offer-explained:
We're glad you've applied to study with us, and we hope you decide to accept your offer.
A conditional offer from us means you need to achieve the grades or points outlined in your offer letter.
Your offer letter will also explain any English language requirements, if applicable.
If you have an academic offer condition, we may need to see your degree certificate and transcripts as evidence.
If you have an English language condition, you may be able to meet the requirements by taking a pre-sessional course at our Language Centre .
You can upload evidence that you have met your conditions and accept your offer in the application portal .
Please note that you may have to accept your offer again if it becomes unconditional.
If your offer has an academic condition, you will need to include official translations alongside your final academic documents if they were not originally produced in English.
These translations should be signed and dated by an official translator and include their credentials, company details and confirmation that the translation is accurate.
An unconditional offer from us means you have met all the relevant academic and English language requirements.
You can accept your unconditional offer in the application portal.
If you require a Student visa, you’ll then need to pay a tuition fee deposit or provide evidence that you’re fully funded by a University-recognised sponsor or scholarship.
We’ll send you more information about this when you accept your offer.
When you come to Leeds, make sure you bring your original academic documents, or certified copies, and any official translations into English as we may ask to see them.
If you take a pre-sessional English course with our Language Centre to meet your language condition, you may be eligible for a combined offer.
This means that when you pass your pre-sessional, and have met any conditions in your offer letter, you are automatically enrolled on your degree course.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/masters-offer/doc/offer-information-international-masters-students:
You’ll join a friendly and diverse global community here at Leeds.
We provide information and services to help you prepare for Leeds .
You’ll get practical advice on travel, our welcome services, what to bring with you and when to arrive.
Visit International offer holder events and activities for opportunities to connect with the University and other students, both online and in your country.
We have offices in China, India, Malaysia and Nigeria, as well as a global network of representatives who can advise you about studying here.
We offer support and activities to welcome you and help you get settled in your first weeks in Leeds .
As well as the welcome activities run by your school, you’ll be invited to our international orientation , a week-long programme of talks, tours and social events to help you meet people and feel at home.
Find out more about how we'll support you on our arrival pages .
There are lots of ways to make friends at the University.
Through our University Buddy Scheme , you can be matched with another student and start making connections.
You can enjoy interests and hobbies through the many clubs and societies at Leeds University Union , and you can meet students from all around the world at our weekly Global Café .
We also offer support to help international families feel at home.
We offer support to help you throughout your time at Leeds, including visa and immigration advice and activities specifically for international students.
You can find out more about life as an international student at Leeds by chatting to our friendly Link to Leeds student ambassadors or reading their blogs .
If you are coming to the UK to study, there are some additional things to consider.
As an international student, you may need a Student visa.
First, you will need to pay a tuition fee deposit or provide evidence that your tuition fees are fully covered by a University-recognised sponsor or scholarship.
We will send you information about this through the application portal if you accept an unconditional offer.
We will then be able to issue your Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS).
The earliest that we can issue your CAS is six months before the start of your course.
Once you have this, you can apply for a Student visa.
For further information on your visa application and UKVI regulations, visit Applying for a Student visa .
The University has specialist visa advisors who can answer questions about visa applications and advise on documents required at any stage in the process.
Email visa advisors via studentvisaadvice@leeds.ac.uk.
Our pre-sessional English courses can help you meet the English language requirements of your Masters and prepare you for life and study at a UK university.
Our summer courses are tailored to your subject area, so you learn academic English that specifically prepares you for your degree.
Summer courses are full-time over ten or six weeks and entry requirements vary depending on the language requirements and subject area of your Masters course.
Courses are also available online, or for longer periods, but these options may not be tailored to your subject area.
For more information, entry requirements and how to apply, visit Postgraduate pre-sessional English courses .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/masters-offer/doc/masters-fees-funding:
There are many ways you can fund your Masters studies.
The two main costs to consider are tuition fees and living costs.
It’s a good idea to plan your finances before starting your course.
Masters funding
Check your eligibility for scholarships and bursaries at Leeds, and explore a range of external funding sources.
Top tips for funding your Masters
Read our guide to creating a personalised funding package.
Details of your tuition fees are included with your offer letter.
If you have any specific questions, please contact the admissions team in your school or department using the contact details on your offer letter.
For questions about payment, please telephone the Student Finance (Fees) team on +44 (0)113 343 6700 or email the Student Finance (Fees) team at pgfees@leeds.ac.uk .
If you require a Student visa to study in the UK, once you have accepted an unconditional offer you will be asked to pay a tuition fee deposit or provide evidence that you are fully funded by a University-recognised sponsor or scholarship.
For details about this, visit Tuition fee deposits for Masters applicants .
For information on how to pay as a self-funding student, visit our paying fees and charges page .
For information on what you and your sponsor must provide, visit our sponsored students page .
Budgeting is important throughout your studies, and we have guidance and support to help you make the most of your money.
Our Living costs and budgeting page includes a budget calculator to find out how much money you’re likely to spend in a typical week at Leeds.
You can also read our student blogs for a real-life guide to living costs while at university.
Get information on how to budget, save money and where to access financial support on our Money management page.
Leeds University Union also offers independent advice and help with any issues you may face as a student, including money matters.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/masters-offer/doc/offer-accommodation:
You’ll soon feel at home here in Leeds.
We’re sure you’ll find something to meet your needs, whether you’re looking for a flat, a shared house or family accommodation.
We guarantee* an offer of single University accommodation to all new, single international postgraduate students who apply before the deadline.
*Restrictions apply relating to deadlines, residence, academic fee status and level of study.
Our self-catered postgraduate residences include various room types to suit different budgets.
Each room comes fully furnished, and shared facilities include kitchens and launderettes.
Learn more about costs, how to apply, and the benefits of our University accommodation .
If you’re a UK student, we can’t guarantee University accommodation, but there’s plenty of private housing options to explore.
Leeds has a wide range of good-quality private accommodation to suit all lifestyles and budgets, ranging from family and shared houses to studios and en-suite accommodation in private, large developments.
Local suburbs offer family homes, good schools and green spaces.
Costs will depend on the type of property and location you choose.
You can find out about all types of accommodation through Unipol , a student homes charity, which also has information about average rent costs in Leeds.
For independent help and information about all aspects of private accommodation, visit the Leeds University Union advice centre .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/postgraduate-online-events:
Throughout the year we run a number of events to help you take the next step towards postgraduate study.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/masters/doc/postgraduate-fairs:
We regularly attend postgraduate fairs and exhibitions across the UK.
It's a great opportunity to meet our expert staff and ask us anything about postgraduate study at Leeds.
Please check back for details of upcoming events.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/masters-explained:
Make your Masters a reality at the 4th most targeted UK university by top graduate employers (High Fliers, the Graduate Market 2024).
Sign up to watch our online talk to understand your next steps towards Masters study at a world top 100 University (QS World University Rankings 2026).
Our online talk is your chance to:

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/masters-scholarships-bursaries/doc/international-masters-regional-scholarships:
£6,000 fee reduction scholarships are available for international students.
These awards are for international students from an eligible country/region applying to study a taught Masters course starting in 2025.
The scholarships are designed to help ease the cost of living, allowing you to focus on your education and achieve your full potential.
By supporting talented individuals from these regions, we aim to empower you to reach your academic and professional goals while fostering a diverse and dynamic learning community.
The International Masters Regional Scholarship will be awarded as a fee waiver in the second semester.
Check the following eligibility criteria:
To be eligible for an International Masters Regional Scholarship you must:
The scholarship can be combined with any available School or Faculty scholarship, or external funding as long as this does not exceed 100% of your tuition fees.
Please however check the terms and conditions of any other scholarships that you have received to ensure that they can also be combined.
The scholarship cannot be deferred to a future year of entry.
If your country/region is not included, you may still be eligible for one of our other scholarships.
See all Masters scholarships.
You do not need to submit a scholarship application.
If you meet the eligibility and award criteria, you will automatically receive the scholarship.
If you have already been offered a place on one of our courses, you will soon receive an email confirming the award.
If you haven’t yet applied, you will be notified of your scholarship award shortly after you receive a course offer.
We encourage you to confirm your interest by accepting the scholarship via the link provided in the scholarship award offer email.
You will then receive a confirmation email.
The scholarship is a tuition fee discount which will be automatically applied if you are registered at the University on 30 January 2026.
As the scholarship is awarded at the beginning of the second semester, we recommend that you pay your tuition fees via an instalment plan.
The scholarship will be deducted from the second instalment of your tuition fees, due in February 2026.
Further guidance on paying your fees is available on our How to pay page .
No, the scholarship will be awarded as a tuition fee discount, which will be deducted from the second instalment of your tuition fees due in February 2026.
We encourage you to respond to the scholarship award email to confirm your interest, which prompts a confirmation email.
However, the scholarship is automatically applied for applicants meeting the eligibility and award criteria.
No scholarship letter will be issued.
The tuition fee discount will be automatically applied if you are registered at the University at the start of the second semester.
Therefore, as we cannot guarantee future registration status, the scholarship will not appear on your CAS and you will still be required to show you have the means to pay the full tuition fee when you apply for your visa.
We will not update your CAS or issue a new CAS to include the scholarship.
Yes, you will be eligible as long as you are studying a Masters course on the University campus starting in September/October 2025.
The tuition fee will remain at the full amount in your application portal and when you register as a student.
We recommend you set up a tuition fee instalment plan to pay 50% before or at registration and 50% at the start of the second semester.
If you have been awarded a School or Faculty scholarship, this will be deducted from the total tuition fee before it is split into the instalments.
If you have paid a tuition fee deposit this will be deducted from the first instalment.
The International Masters Regional Scholarships tuition fee discount will be automatically applied if you are registered at the University on 30 January 2026, so your second instalment will be £6,000 less than initially arranged.
If you have arranged to pay by direct debit the amount will be adjusted by the University before the instalment date in February 2026, you do not need to cancel it or make any changes yourself.
If you have paid your tuition fee in full, the value of the scholarship will be refunded to you in the second semester of study, subject to the eligibility and award criteria.
Yes, you will be eligible if you are a fee payer at the international fee rate and meet the criteria.
Yes, you can accept the scholarship.
You must then meet the conditions of your Masters offer, accept your unconditional offer and if applicable, you must have paid a tuition fee deposit of £2,000 by the date specified in your offer letter for your Masters course.
Find out more about how to pay your deposit .
You must be registered at the University at the start of the second semester.
No, your scholarship offer is only valid for the 2025/26 academic year.
If you decide to decline your offer and reapply for 2026/27, you will lose the scholarship and will need to re-apply for any scholarships in the 2026/27 year.
Please be aware that scholarship opportunities may vary from year to year.
Yes, for courses eligible for the International Masters Regional Scholarship, tuition fee scholarships can be combined up to but not exceeding 100% of the total course tuition fee.
Each scholarship award is calculated and deducted from the total fee independently, regardless of any other scholarship.
If you are applying through an International Partner Agreement and are offered more than one Leeds scholarship, you can choose to accept whichever award represents the highest value.
Yes, you may still be eligible to apply for our International Excellence Scholarship or Subject-related scholarships offered by your School/Faculty.
No, the scholarships are individually assessed and awarded separately.
You will be notified of the outcome of your International Excellence Scholarship application after the closing date.
The MBA currently offers a generous scholarship scheme: MBA Excellence Scholarships .
No, the scholarship is only available for students who are self-funded or partially funded by a sponsor or external organisation.
Students in receipt of a full tuition fee scholarship from an external organisation are not eligible.
If your question has not been answered in our FAQs, please email the Admissions Enquiries team at study@leeds.ac.uk .
When I was applying, my dad mentioned that I was the first in my family to study abroad.
They are excited and want to hear everything about my studies.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/masters/dir-record/profiles/15194/libby-chilton:
I’ve always been interested in the fashion industry.
After graduating I lived and worked in Paris, then I set up my own accessories business in London before I moved north to Leeds.
I felt I’d lost a bit of direction and was keen to study a Masters and develop my business mindset and get back into an industry that interested me.
The MA Fashion, Enterprise and Society course was the perfect combination.
Before the course started, I had set up an online vintage store with a friend, so the enterprise element really appealed to me.
When I started this course I heard about loads of great opportunities, one of which was SPARK, the University’s business start-up service.
I applied to the SPARK Enterprise Scholarship Programme and, with Chloe my business partner, was lucky enough to be successful and we received £3,000.
We went on a two-day SPARK boot camp, which was intense but really useful.
We met entrepreneurs across all industries.
We got to pitch our ideas, talk about what we are doing, analyse it, break it apart, and learn to write a business plan.
The financial support helped us buy new stock, get our logo redesigned and think about what’s important for the business and how to grow it.
I have to say, balancing Masters study and growing a business is challenging at times, but the resources and support available from the University make it achievable.
I spend a lot of time in the Edward Boyle library.
They have a floor dedicated just to postgraduate study, so it’s a good place to have meetings and do research.
After I graduate I want to continue to grow my business.
I have also been looking into research jobs and the possibility of continuing my studies at PhD level.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/masters/dir-record/profiles/14989/beth-peacock:
Through my Masters, I’ve grown hugely as a researcher and gained skills which I can now apply in industry or further research.
My course involved six months’ intensive study at the University, followed by a 12-month paid placement, working on a research project.
For me this was with Covance, a multinational drug development company.
The taught part of the course gave me an invaluable grounding in the whole biopharmaceutical development process, from discovery to commercialising a drug.
The work placement was a highlight because I got to apply my knowledge and research skills to a real-life context and learned so many things, from raw data recording to virus production techniques.
My project was based on gene therapy, which is quite a new area and one I really wanted to learn more about.
I’ve been involved in developing methods to look at the safety of gene therapy medicines.
Once we have these methods it will mean we can ensure the safety of potentially life-saving new drugs.
I was lucky that I was able to shape my research.
What became my main project was initially a subsidiary project.
That was very satisfying, knowing that my input changed things.
With a Masters everything is more independent.
It’s about going and actively learning things and filling in the gaps – preparing for a lecture, for example, so you know what’s being spoken about and can answer questions about it.
Our assignments weren’t just reproducing something we knew, we had to go and find out about things, even things we had no experience of – like writing a business plan!
That challenges you.
My Masters has taught me a lot.
Professionally, I’ve learned lots of new techniques and practical laboratory skills.
Personally, I’m definitely more confident and independent.
Group work and presentations were a key part of my course, so I got very used to doing them.
I’ve learned about patience too.
When your research project doesn’t go well, you just have to take a deep breath and start again.
My Masters has already helped my career progression – I’m about to start a permanent job with Covance.
When it comes to applying for jobs you’ve got experience behind you but also established research skills and a breadth of knowledge that not many other people have.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/international-students/dir-record/profiles/15145/ishan-lee:
I’d already gained a Masters degree in India.
I was working in a media company in Bombay and doing well, but something was missing.
I needed a new perspective.
I wanted to learn and be immersed in a different culture.
I knew I didn’t want to study for a PhD, so I had to pick a Masters that would give me new skills.
My background was in advertising, working with creative brands and planning campaigns, so I chose MA Advertising and Marketing.
I did my research into Leeds – the course, the university and the campus looked good.
I had a webinar session with the programme director.
That gave me the reassurance I needed.
Leeds was my first and only choice.
The University gives you opportunities for placements and work experience.
I spotted the Leeds Internship Programme, which offers University of Leeds students opportunities with local businesses.
I wanted a hands-on role to complement what I was studying.
My internship was with Leeds City Council, running their social media for Light Night, an annual arts and light festival in the city centre.
Social media is constantly evolving, with newer tools, newer ways to talk to people.
I wanted to strengthen my experience in this area and I wasn’t disappointed.
My work on Light Night built on my existing theoretical understanding and gave me chance to put my learning into practice.
I learned people skills too.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/masters/doc/masters-updates-sign-up:
Please use the following form to sign up for our postgraduate newsletter updates.
We’ll send you information on scholarships, important deadlines and subject information.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/research-academic-experience/doc/research-expertise:
The University of Leeds is one of the largest research-intensive universities in the UK, offering a range of research degrees from Masters to PhDs (full-time or split-site), as well as professional doctorates.
Our postgraduate researchers are a fundamental part of our vibrant research culture.
We’re a member of the prestigious Russell Group of 24 research-intensive universities and are part of the Worldwide Universities Network of 23 research-intensive institutions spanning six continents.
Read more about our research and innovation .
When you come to Leeds, you join a community of postgraduates engaged in world-class research across disciplines.
You'll meet like-minded people, passionate about research, across the entire University.
There are opportunities to attend University-wide seminars and events where you can network and discuss your work.
Our Doctoral College supports you throughout your postgraduate research journey, bringing together all the support services and opportunities to enhance your research, your development, and your overall experience.
The faculty graduate schools within the Doctoral College also support you and provide opportunities for you to interact across schools and departments through conferences, seminars and social events.
Graduate schools have postgraduate research tutors who act as a key contact for you on everything from registration to examination.
We bring together wide-ranging expertise to tackle large and complex global challenges.
Many of our departments and schools collaborate through research centres and clusters.
We are part of the White Rose University Consortium , a strategic partnership between three of the UK's leading research universities of Leeds, Sheffield and York.
The University works closely with a range of partners, including:
Your relationship with your supervisors is a key factor in your research degree.
Your supervisors will be with you from the development of your research plan, through your thesis writing, to preparing you for the viva, the final stage of your PhD.
As a postgraduate researcher you will usually be assigned at least two academic supervisors with relevant specialist subject knowledge – your main supervisor and co-supervisor(s).
They will support and encourage you, challenging your ideas, suggesting training and development, reviewing your progress and giving guidance and feedback on your work.
Our academics are actively engaged in leading research.
Many also have widespread practical experience in consultancy and act as advisors to prominent national and international organisations.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/research-academic-experience/doc/academic-study-facilities:
We’re continually investing in outstanding facilities to support your research, from new laboratories to top-class libraries.
You'll also have your own work space in your faculty.
Explore the specialist facilities in our schools and faculties .
You may also be able to access specialist facilities at partner universities – our fellow-members in the N8 research partnership .
Our University library is one of the major academic research libraries in the UK – a premier resource to underpin your research.
We are continually adding to its rich and extensive print and online resources, including some of the UK’s outstanding collections of rare books and manuscripts.
You'll benefit from:
Explore 360 tours of our libraries .
Through your University account, you'll access the technologies and services to support your studies:
Develop your academic English or learn a new language with our excellent Language Centre .
For international students:
The Language Centre also offers independent learning resources in over 50 languages, for all students, researchers and staff.
Hopefully my research will have an influence on what people know about Zika virus and the lifecycle, and how we can target it with antivirals.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/research-career-professional-development/doc/development-careers-support:
A research degree can expand your skills and employment prospects.
You’ll gain skills that are invaluable, whatever your chosen career.
At Leeds you can tailor your development to match your needs.
With your supervisor, you’ll agree a personal development plan that reflects your experience and aspirations.
Our online record system GRAD helps you record this, with milestones to track your progress right up to completion of your research degree.
The University runs and takes part in several researcher development programmes .
We'll also encourage you to build your research profile .
You’ll have access to a huge range of training development opportunities, including:
Our Doctoral College’s online courses help with all stages of your research, and in developing core skills like project and time management.
Through LinkedIn Learning you’ll have access to Leeds-specific research-related resources, as well as thousands of courses on every topic.
The University's Careers Service offers a range of events, online resources, personal advice and support.
They’ll help you understand your strengths and market yourself effectively.
They offer advice specifically for researchers, about both academic and alternative career paths.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/research-career-professional-development/doc/build-research-profile:
Meeting and connecting with others is vital to advancing your research and building your profile.
You’ll meet academic colleagues and industry experts at research events, national and international conferences.
You’ll have opportunities to present and perhaps publish your research.
The Leeds alumni community – one of the largest of any UK university – offers opportunities to hear from, and connect with, industry professionals through talks and individual conversations.
Our established partnerships with leading organisations and companies offer ready-made connections you can tap into.
You may have chance to widen your professional network by working on industry projects and internships, and on large-scale collaborative research partnerships.
Our commercialisation team identifies, evaluates and develops commercial opportunities for research conducted at the University.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/research-leeds-doctoral-college:
Your community
Leeds Doctoral College guides you through your postgraduate research experience.
We connect our whole researcher community and put you in touch with the services, support and opportunities you need.
Within the Doctoral College, there are seven faculty graduate schools .
Your graduate school is your main point of contact for any questions about your programme or anything relating to your studies.
The Doctoral College can advise you on a wide range of issues and has close links with the services available to you, including the Library , Leeds University Union , the Careers Service , Organisational Development and Professional Learning (OD&PL), Disability Services , and Student Counselling and Wellbeing .
The Doctoral College also advertises opportunities, training and workshops available for postgraduate researchers through Microsoft Teams.
What you can expect as a postgraduate researcher at Leeds
Voice your ideas and influence change through a network of postgraduate researcher representatives.
Please get in touch if you have a query not covered on this website.
Email Leeds Doctoral College via doctoralcollege@leeds.ac.uk .
If you're an existing Leeds postgraduate researcher, join the Leeds Doctoral College Microsoft Teams space for announcements, courses and resources.
Contact your graduate school for more information.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/research-fees/doc/research-degrees-fees:
Postgraduate research fees are not regulated by the UK government so decisions on UK undergraduate fees do not apply to them.
Our postgraduate research fees are set independently and reviewed on an annual basis.
You are classified as either a home or international postgraduate researcher for the purpose of assessing tuition fees.
Where your status is not clear from your application, you will enter our fee assessment process .
The following fees listed are meant as a guide only.
An annual bench fee may be charged in addition to academic fees where the research projects undertaken require a high expenditure on consumables, equipment or other resources.
Please check with the admissions team for your research area for accurate information.
You may also need to pay additional study costs in some instances.
The fee quoted is based on full-time study and shows the fee charged for postgraduate researchers studying in that academic year.
The fee may increase in future years of your studies in line with inflation.
The following fees for international postgraduate researchers are based on full-time study and apply for each year of the course.
These fees are fixed at this level for each year of your course allowing you to plan your finances for the duration of your studies.
Fees quoted are based on full-time study and apply for each year of the course.
If you are studying part-time, the fee is normally 50% of the full rate (with the exception of the overtime fee).
The fees for split-site programmes (see our page on types of research degree for more information) are set as a percentage of the UK or international fees.
There are three ways of studying for a split-site PhD at the University that will affect the fees you pay:
There is an overtime registration fee of £320 for 2024/25 and £340 for 2025/26.
This fee is chargeable should you need extra time to write up your thesis outside the standard period of study.
If you are still undertaking new research in the overtime period, the full fee may be charged.
Your offer letter will state the end of the standard period of study and also the maximum time limit.
The difference is usually the overtime period.
Full-time postgraduate researchers normally have one year of overtime and part-time/split site have two years.
Only certain categories of students will be charged the home tuition fee.
Where it is not clear from your application form whether you have home or international status, the Admissions Operations team will contact you to carry out a fee assessment.
This may be before or after you have received an offer.
For further information and advice, see our fee assessment page .
For more detail, see our information for sponsored postgraduate researchers on our For Students website.
You need to make arrangements to pay your fees before the start of the academic year or you won't be able to register.
Find out more about how to pay your tuition fees and view the tuition fee payment schedule on our website For Students.
Read more about tuition fee liability .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/research-funding:
Find out about University scholarships and funding available to UK and international research degree students from across our schools and subject areas.
Select the ‘Funding’ tab when you search our research opportunities directory .
Read more about fee status and the basics of home and overseas fees on the UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) website.
Search our funding opportunities for UK and international researchers.
Open to former students of the University of Leeds.
Fully funded postgraduate research scholarships for under-represented groups.
If you are a home fee-rated student, you may be able to apply for Research Council funded study through one of our Doctoral Training Partnerships (DTPs) or Centres for Doctoral Training (CDTs).
There are a very limited number of studentships for international fee-rated students.
Explore our externally funded research opportunities .
Read more about fee status on the UKCISA website.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/research-funding/doc/externally-funded-research-opportunities:
You could benefit from a funded PhD place along with enhanced training and development through our Doctoral Training Partnerships (DTP) and Centres for Doctoral Training.
Work experience and placements may also be available through these routes, which are funded by the UK research councils.
We are partners in the following Doctoral Training Partnerships:
Funded by the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC), the White Rose College of the Arts and Humanities (WRoCAH) provides postgraduate researchers with the opportunity to develop their employability skills with a cohort, learning and networking with each other in a unique and tailored training programme, alongside excellent supervision.
Find out about current scholarship opportunities on the Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Cultures page .
Funded by the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC), the White Rose Social Sciences DTP delivers excellent supervision, first class training and a vibrant intellectual environment across fourteen Leeds Schools.
It enables postgraduate researchers to link with national and international networks of industrial partners, opinion formers, policy makers and academics and aims to produce doctoral graduates with outstanding skills and flexibility.
Funded by the Engineering and Physical Science Research Council (EPSRC), the Engineering and Physical Science DTP funds postgraduate researchers across the Faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences , offering them the chance to engage with our vibrant research culture and enjoy the benefits of our outstanding resources including state-of-the-art laboratories, high performance computer facilities and one of the UK's major academic libraries.
The DTP also provides funding for a number of industrially co-sponsored studentships.
Funded by the Natural Environment Research Council (NERC), the Panorama NERC DTP spans the science of earth’s atmosphere, geosphere and biosphere.
Through high quality research projects and training, we attract excellent postgraduate researchers into natural environment science research and train them for future employment and leadership, enabling them to contribute to environmental wellbeing and UK economic prosperity.
Funded by the Biotechnology and Biological Science Research Council (BBSRC), the White Rose Mechanistic Biology DTP offers a four year PhD programme in Mechanistic Biology, aligned with the BBSRC’s strategic priorities in food security, bioenergy and industrial technology and world class bioscience.
It delivers regional PhD training that has interdisciplinary collaboration and placement opportunities, as well as the opportunity to engage with the very best molecular and cellular bioscience researchers.
Funded by the Medical Research Council (MRC), the Discovery Medicine North (DiMeN) DTP is training the next generation of researchers to tackle the major health problems facing the population, with a focus on the themes of genetic influences on health, ageing and disease, and bioinformatics and personalised medicine.
The DTP aims to deliver training in stratified medicine, focusing on the best treatment for every patient.
Funded through a BBSRC-NERC Doctoral Landscape Award (DLA), the Yorkshire Environmental Sciences Doctoral Training Network recruits up to 26 fully funded PhD candidates per year.
YES DTN is a collaboration of 4 academic schools across the University of Leeds and the Wolfson Atmospheric Chemistry Laboratories of the University of York.
We offer associate memberships both at the University of York and the University of Leeds.
YES DTN therefore all environmental science research facing the UK Natural Environment Research Council (NERC) on our two collaborating campuses.
We are also a partner in the Wellcome Trust PhD Programme, which is similar to a DTP , in that it provides a cohort-based PhD programme, focusing on the molecular basis of biological mechanisms.
The programme is based in the cutting-edge Astbury Centre for Structural Molecular Biology .
Centres for Doctoral Training (CDTs) draw on world class and internationally recognised research from a range of disciplines and faculties across the University.
They mostly offer integrated Masters and PhD training and always have a partnerships focus.
Most CDT s at Leeds are funded by the EPSRC .
Our Understanding Uncertainty to Reduce Climate Risks (UNRISK) CDT is funded by NERC.
Our Satellite Data in Environmental Science CDT is funded by the NERC and the UK Space Agency.
Fluid Dynamics sits at the centre of our lives, the weather we experience, the products we use, the food we eat, cars we drive, medical care we receive all depend on fluid dynamics.
As a postgraduate researcher studying at the EPSRC CDT in Future Fluid Dynamics at the University of Leeds you will tackle fundamental and applied problems, with the opportunity to undertake cutting-edge multidisciplinary research.
The Centre for Satellite Data in Environmental Science (SENSE) will bring together expertise in satellite remote sensing, climate change, and advanced data science to nurture the next generation of earth observation researchers.
Join us to transform environmental science in the UK using both advanced data science and earth observation techniques.
Understanding Uncertainty to Reduce Climate Risks (UNRISK) is a Centre for Doctoral Training with fully funded PhD research opportunities at the University of Leeds, University College London, the University of Exeter collaborating with over 40 external partners.
UNRISK will train students with the multidisciplinary knowledge and skills across climate science, data science and decision science to tackle the pressing challenge of reducing the risks associated with rapid climate change.
UNRISK will fund 40 PhD students in cohorts of 12-15 per year over three years, providing them with a stipend, university fees and residential training for 3 years and 9 months.
Find out more about UNRISK projects .
Developing National Capability for Materials 4.0 is an Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) partnered with the Henry Royce Institute , of which the University of Leeds is a founding partner.
Fully-funded PhD opportunities cover fees, a tax-free stipend and a research allowance.
Researchers will be trained in digital materials science, with projects that involve all aspects of Materials 4.0 and span across the Royce Institute research areas .
The centre will train more than 70 PhD researchers to become future leaders in Materials 4.0, with projects supervised by leading researchers and sponsored by industry.
Researchers will be based in one of seven UK Universities:
Visit the Developing National Capability for Materials 4.0 website .
We are also partners in the following EPSRC Centres for Doctoral Training:
This collaborative CDT involving the Universities of Manchester, Lancaster, Leeds, Liverpool, Sheffield and Strathclyde aims to work towards building the skills base needed to support the UK’s Net Zero targets.
Undertake a fully-funded, four-year CDT PhD and take your place among the next generation of nuclear experts.
Find out more about the SATURN CDT .
CEDAR aims to develop the way that cyber-physical systems can help make medicines manufacturing more sustainable, resilient and human-centric.
CEDAR will train 90 future leaders with the multidisciplinary skills essential for advancing next-generation, sustainable medicines manufacturing.
Find out more about the CEDAR CDT .
If you are a UK or EU postgraduate researcher, other sources of funding may be available from the UK research councils.
See the following list of websites for full details of the funding they offer.
You can then contact the school you would like to study with for information about how to apply.
Terms and conditions apply.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/research-funding/doc/government-postgraduate-doctoral-loans:
Find out more about the Postdoctoral Loans on the UK government website .
Eligibility for a Postgraduate Doctoral Loan will depend on:
To qualify for a Postgraduate Doctoral Loan you must meet all of the eligibility criteria .
When completing your Doctoral Loan application with Student Finance England you will be asked to state the course you intend on studying.
This will be formatted as follows:
Doctoral Course in [name of school] [FT/PT - full-time or part-time]
If you were to be studying a full-time doctoral course in the School of English then you would select:
Doctoral Course in English FT
If you were to be studying a part-time course in the School of Geography then you would select:
Doctoral Course in Geography PT
The name of your school is detailed on your offer letter.
If you cannot find a course that is specifically linked to your school in this way then please email the Student Funding team via funding@leeds.ac.uk .
If you apply for a Postgraduate Doctoral Loan, and it is approved, the Student Loan Company will send the University your details and you should then be able to register.
If you are approved for a Postgraduate Doctoral Loan you do not need to pay your fees up front, as you will be able to set up an instalment plan to pay the fee in three instalments.
If you have any problems with this you should email the Student Funding team via funding@leeds.ac.uk .
To receive your loan you will need to have registered, had your identity checked and to confirm you meet all of the eligibility criteria via an online declaration form.
After the University confirms your registration with the Student Loan Company the loan is paid directly to you, and can be used as a contribution towards your course fees or living costs.
The loan payments will be divided equally across each year of your course, excluding any overtime period.
A full-time doctoral course at the University has a duration of three years meaning your Doctoral Loan would be paid to you in full over that period.
A part-time doctoral course at the University has a duration of five years meaning your Doctoral loan would be paid to you in full over that period.
If you go into an overtime period, or are granted an extension beyond these standard durations, then no further government funding will be available to you as you will have received your entitlement in full.
Read about the types of research degree you can study at the University of Leeds.
If you are having difficulty applying for your funding please email the Student Funding team via funding@leeds.ac.uk .
Sometimes the inflation-only interest that is paid on study loans is seen as Riba (although not all Islamic scholars share this view).
Explore more information about study loans and Sharia Law .
Find out more about the funding available for postgraduate students:
You can also search our postgraduate scholarships database or find information on UCAS .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/research-applying/doc/applying-research-degrees:
You can apply for a research degree online and track your application at each stage of the process.
Before you apply, please read the ‘application process’ section of this page and check the admissions process and requirements for your research area.
Some faculties have specific guidance relevant to their area.
Where instructions or advice are different, the faculty-specific guidance should be followed.
If you have any queries, please contact the relevant postgraduate research admissions team .
Take a look at our most recent admissions policy .
Please read the ‘application process’ section first.
If you are a current postgraduate researcher studying at another institution and need to use our facilities, please contact the relevant postgraduate research admissions team .
If you have any difficulties using the online application form, please email our research admissions team via rp_applications@adm.leeds.ac.uk .
International applicants can contact University representatives overseas for support.
You can also review information about visas and immigration and specific entry requirements, including English language requirements .
For specific information about visa and immigration requirements for all types of temporary study and research visits, see the visas for research and study visits page .
We are committed to providing high-quality advice and support for postgraduate researchers.
You can choose to tell us about your disability during the application process.
See how in our information for disabled postgraduate researchers .
Disability information that you disclose on your research degree application form will not be visible to admissions colleagues, but it will be made available to our Disability Services team who will contact you should you accept an offer from us.
You can also register with Disability Services in advance of accepting an offer.
If you require any reasonable adjustments throughout the admissions and scholarships selection process, please contact the relevant postgraduate research admissions team to discuss your needs.
You are not obliged to inform us of any disability, but you will still be covered by the Equality Act (2010) if that disability becomes known to us.
Applying for a research degree is a four-step process:
Visit our research opportunities directory to search for research projects, funding, supervisors and research areas.
Please make sure that you meet the following requirements before submitting your application:
Start dates vary.
For advice on when you can start your research, please see the information on start dates and application deadlines .
Please contact the relevant postgraduate research admissions team for advice on when you can start your research or check individual school websites.
If you would like to start your own research project, we recommend you are up to date with related literature and news so you are ready to discuss the direction you intend your research to take with potential supervisors.
You need to identify the supervisors available to work with you.
They must be experts in the topic you are interested in to ensure that your research is accurate and adding to current knowledge.
You will then need to develop a research proposal for your application.
Please read the procedures for investigating plagiarism in a research proposal (at the admissions stage) (PDF) , which explains the actions taken when plagiarism is suspected when processing an application.
How to search for supervisors:
The University also offers a Master of Philosophy (MPhil) qualification.
For further information on the MPhil please visit the Types of research degree page.
Please note that the MPhil is a stand-alone qualification and there is no progression route to a Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) via this programme.
If you wish to apply for an MPhil degree please contact the relevant postgraduate research admissions team to discuss the application process.
When applying, it is important you state clearly the intended project or programme.
The supporting documents your school needs to process your application may vary but you must provide copies of your academic transcripts or certificates.
You may also need copies of:
All documents should be in English or be accompanied by a certified translation into English.
They can be sent via the online research degree application or can be emailed to the relevant postgraduate research admissions team after you have submitted your application.
Your email should include your student ID number (emailed to you on submission of your application), full name and your intended course of study.
Please do not send original documents at the application stage and only provide documents via email.
In most faculties, you need to provide the names and contact details of a minimum of two academic referees in support of your application.
These should be entered in the referees section of the online application form.
Read more about references for research degree applications .
Some faculties require a brief description of the general research area you are interested in, or a specific research proposal.
Be aware that the faculty may have deadlines for your proposal so be sure to ask before you apply.
Your research proposal is submitted via the application form.
You may not need to provide a research proposal if you are applying for a pre-defined project studentship but please check when applying.
We advise you to apply at least four months before your proposed start date.
This is to allow sufficient time to review your application and undertake any additional checks.
You may also need adequate time to apply for ATAS (Academic Technology Approval Scheme) clearance or a Student visa, as well as making arrangements to travel to Leeds.
For advice on when to apply, please see the information on start dates and application deadlines .
We cannot guarantee that we will be able to consider applications received after this date and, where there is not sufficient time, we may consider you for the next possible start date instead.
If you are applying for a scholarship or funding opportunity, this may require you to apply for a place of study much earlier and in advance of funding deadlines, which can often be up to 12 months before the proposed start date.
If you have applied online you will be able to log in and track the progress of your research degree application .
The school will contact you if it has any further entry requirements and to let you know if your application status changes.
There are many options available for you to secure the funding you need to commence your research studies including scholarships and bursaries.
If your application is successful you will be sent an offer letter that you will need to respond to.
You can accept your research degree offer online using your web login ID and web login PIN.
If you do accept your offer you will be agreeing to the terms and conditions outlined in your acceptance letter and you should only do so if you have secured funding for your studies.
To request a new start date, you should contact the relevant postgraduate researcher admissions team .
If they are able to accommodate this change then a new formal offer letter will be issued with your revised start and end date.
You will have to accept this new offer as outlined previously.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/research-applying/doc/start-dates-application-deadlines:
Find key information on when you can start your postgraduate research degree and the deadlines for applying.
Until 1 August 2026, applicants may be able to start their research degree programme on the first of any month.
There are some faculties, schools and programmes that have fewer start date options available.
Please contact the relevant postgraduate research admissions team for further information.
Start dates for postgraduate researchers, including visiting postgraduate researchers, are fixed and vary by academic school or faculty.
Our entry points are 1 September, 1 October, 1 February and 1 April, though some areas may offer only one or two start dates per year.
October and February are the most common start dates, and most funding opportunities will require an October start.
Guidance on areas with restricted start dates is provided here, though please check with the relevant postgraduate research admissions team for further information on available start dates.
Start dates depend on your faculty and course, and some have fixed intakes.
Check the lists to see which areas have restricted start dates.
Our start dates are aligned with our larger cohort-based inductions, which strengthen our postgraduate researcher community and provide extensive academic, professional and mutual support and access to resources from the start of your PhD.
We encourage all postgraduate researchers to start with their cohort where possible.
Occasionally there may be exceptional circumstances where an applicant is required to start their research degree programme on a different date.
If this occurs, a formal request to start on an alternative start date may be considered by the Head of Faculty Graduate School (or their nominee).
Exceptional circumstances that will be considered include, but are not limited to: a scholarship or sponsorship that is available for use on a specific date or range of dates that do not match any of our fixed start dates; availability of appropriate university resources; or extenuating personal circumstances.
You should contact your supervisor or admissions team in the first instance for exceptional consideration of an alternative start date.
If you experience a delay in arriving to start your studies, we would consider whether this could be accommodated.
If this is not possible, it may require you to change to the next available start date.
Please contact the relevant postgraduate research admissions team if you have any concerns that you may not be able to arrive on time for your start date.
This is to allow sufficient time for us to review your application and undertake any additional checks.
You may also need adequate time to apply for ATAS (Academic Technology Approval Scheme) clearance or a Student visa , as well as to make arrangements to travel to Leeds.
We cannot guarantee that we will be able consider applications received after application deadlines and, where there is not sufficient time, we may consider you for the next possible start date instead.
The application deadlines are as follows:
To request a new start date, you should contact the relevant postgraduate research admissions team .
If they are able to accommodate this change then you will receive a new offer letter with your revised start and end date.
You will have to accept this new offer and should note that there may be additional conditions applied to any new offer.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/research-applying/doc/research-proposals:
Your research proposal is a key part of your postgraduate application.
It’s your opportunity to demonstrate your knowledge of your subject and how you intend to influence your desired research area.
We match your research proposal with the appropriate supervisors to make sure you have the best support during your research degree.
Before you apply, find out which researchers are working in your subject area and contact them with any questions.
You can also review the ‘how to apply’ web pages of the School you plan to apply to, and find specific requirements for research proposals on your intended programme.
If you have further questions, contact the relevant admissions team .
Don’t worry if your research idea isn’t fully formed when you get in touch, you can firm up your ideas as you explore the topic and talk with others in your field.
You may not need to if you are applying for a pre-defined project.
Before you apply you should contact your academic school, or review their web pages, to check:
Your research proposal should normally include the following information, but this may vary according to which school you are applying to:
A working title of your research; this may change over the course of your research as your project develops but it is good to have a starting point.
Set the scene of your research clearly.
Show that you understand the research area and have started to develop an understanding of your research topic.
Make sure that you:
If you have identified academics involved in your research area you should contact them to discuss their work.
This would be a good opportunity to get further advice about your proposal and to potentially start building a supervisor relationship.
Your research aims show the overall purpose of your study and you should consider them carefully.
Keep your research proposal concise, focus on one or two key research aims and how research questions can achieve the aims.
This will help you, and potential supervisors, to decide if they are achievable.
Consider how you will carry out your research, and address this in your proposal.
Plan a realistic timescale for your project to demonstrate that your research project is achievable.
You should consider:
You should explain your potential outcomes to show you have thought through your research and why it is important.
You may include how your research builds on current knowledge and what new understanding you will bring to your field.
Focus your reading so that your references are relevant and up-to-date.
Use Harvard referencing style .
Your research proposal is your chance to show you can present information accurately, coherently and concisely.
When proofreading, ask yourself:
The research proposal you submit is the start of the research process.
Once you are accepted onto a postgraduate research programme, you will refine and develop your original proposal as your knowledge grows and regular discussions begin with your supervisory team.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/research-applying/doc/postgraduate-research-admissions-contacts:
Our postgraduate research (PGR) admissions teams provide faculty-specific admissions support for postgraduate research students.
Faculty PGR admissions teams can give you specialist support about the programmes, schools and subject areas you are interested in applying to.
They can provide advice about entry requirements, English language requirements and provide updates on your application status.
This page contains the contact details for all faculty PGR admissions teams.
Email Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Cultures PGR admissions: ahcpgradmissions@leeds.ac.uk
Email Faculty of Biological Sciences PGR admissions: fbsgrad@leeds.ac.uk
Email Leeds University Business School PGR admissions: phd@lubs.leeds.ac.uk
Email Faculty of Social Sciences PGR admissions: applypgr.socialsciences@leeds.ac.uk
Email the PGR admissions team: phd@engineering.leeds.ac.uk
Email Faculty of Environment PGR admissions: env-pgr@leeds.ac.uk
Email Faculty of Medicine and Health PGR admissions: fmhpgradmissions@leeds.ac.uk
If you are a current postgraduate researcher looking to contact your graduate school visit the graduate school contacts page on the For Students website .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/research-offer:
We’re here to support you through your journey to postgraduate research.
Discover how we can help and what to do next.
View and accept your offer
I really enjoyed the independent study for my Masters and a PhD takes that a step further; you get to direct your interest where you want it to go.
Trying different ways of doing things is exciting – you're working with the best of the best.
Leeds is a fantastic city.
It's a very welcoming place.
I'm from Bangladesh, and I was able to bring my family with me to the UK.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/research-offer/doc/research-offer-explained:
We’re glad you’ve applied to study with us, and we hope you accept your offer.
A conditional offer from us means you need to achieve the grades outlined in your offer letter.
You can accept your unconditional offer in the application portal .
If you are a postgraduate researcher and require a Student visa, you’ll receive an email asking how you’ll be funding your studies.
If you are in receipt of a University-recognised sponsor or scholarship, you may be required to provide evidence.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/research-offer/doc/research-fees-funding:
Check our funding opportunities for doctoral studies.
For questions about payment, please call the Student Finance (Fees) team on +44 (0)113 343 6700 or email the Student Finance (Fees) team at pgfees@leeds.ac.uk .
If you require a Student visa to study in the UK, once you have accepted an unconditional offer you will be asked to provide evidence that you are fully funded by a University-recognised sponsor or scholarship.
For information on how to pay as a self-funding student, visit our paying fees and charges page.
For information on what you and your sponsor must provide, visit our sponsored students page.
Our living costs and budgeting page includes a budget calculator to find out how much money you’re likely to spend in a typical week at Leeds.
You can get support with your finances at Worried about the cost of living?
The page features tips on how to budget, save money and where to access financial support.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/research-offer/doc/international-postgraduate-researchers:
A free airport pick-up service is available for all new international postgraduate researchers arriving in Leeds for the first time.
You will also receive a welcome food box to help you settle in during your first day in Leeds.
If you are arriving before or after September, you can access our international orientation resources , which include information about living in the UK, in addition to on-demand webinars on finance and banking, healthcare and disability support.
Through our University Buddy Scheme , you can be matched with another postgraduate researcher and start making connections.
You can contact our Student Information Service before and after arrival with any questions related to your student experience.
Our friendly team will be able to answer any questions you may have or put you in touch with the right team at our University who can best assist you.
When you accept your offer, we will then issue your Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS).
Email visa advisors via studentvisaadvice@leeds.ac.uk .
Our pre-sessional English courses can help you meet the English language requirements of your postgraduate degree and prepare you for life and study at a UK university.
Summer courses are full-time over ten or six weeks and entry requirements vary depending on the language requirements and subject area of your degree.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/research-degrees/doc/types-research-degree:
We offer a range of postgraduate research degrees which provide training in research, enhanced employment opportunities and the chance to develop advanced skills and expertise.
For more information about supervisory expertise and research projects available, contact the postgraduate research admissions teams directly.
A doctorate is one of the highest degrees awarded by universities in the UK.
You will be required to submit a thesis consisting of evidence of originality and independent critical ability, which is considered suitable for publication.
You will also be required to defend your thesis before a panel of expert examiners appointed by the University.
A PhD is awarded on the successful completion of a programme of supervised research.
It is assessed via a final thesis (of up to 100,000 words) and a viva voce (an oral examination).
The standard period of study for a full-time PhD is three years, and for part-time five years.
The Doctor of Medicine is for fully qualified medical doctors.
It is similar to a PhD, but often contains a component of clinical research and can sometimes be completed more quickly.
This degree normally takes two years full time or three years part time.
Professional Doctorates are specifically designed to meet the needs of practising professionals.
Although they involve a significant number of advanced courses, a major part of the programmes involves undertaking a thesis in a similar way to the more traditional PhD.
The normal duration is three years full-time and five years part-time except for the Doctor of Clinical Psychology programme which is full-time only.
The integrated degree of PhD and Master combines specialist advanced courses, training and skills courses and research study.
This integrated approach gives you a learning environment in which to broaden and deepen your subject knowledge while providing the opportunity for inter-disciplinary study to extend your expertise in new directions.
Integrated degrees normally take four years full time.
Several are part of an Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) funded Centre for Doctoral Training.
Find out more about Centres for Doctoral Training at Leeds.
The Master of Philosophy (MPhil) is awarded on the successful completion of a programme of supervised research.
It is assessed via a final thesis (of up to 60,000 words) and a viva voce (an oral examination).
The standard period of study for a full-time MPhil is two years and for part-time four years.
You will be required to submit a thesis consisting of evidence of  an independent contribution to knowledge and scholarship, and sufficient material which is considered suitable for publication.
This is referred to as a viva.
If you’re intending to pursue a career that requires an understanding of research, then this could be the degree for you.
It gives you the opportunity to experience research within one year full time, (or two years part time) and to present a thesis.
The following Masters degrees by research are available:
The Masters by Research is awarded on the successful completion of a programme of supervised research.
It is assessed via a final thesis (up to 30,000 words) and a viva voce (oral examination).
Candidates of exceptionally high quality are able to apply to study for a split-site PhD, spending some periods of study in Leeds and other periods of study in a research institute or commercial or industrial organisation.
The fees for split-site programmes are set as a percentage of the home/EU or international fees .
In the first instance you must contact your postgraduate research admissions team to find out whether they offer split-site degrees and for full details of their requirements.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/international-applying/doc/international-how-to-apply:
How you apply to study at the University of Leeds depends on the level of course you want to take.
Use the following links to find out how to apply:
We work with a global network of overseas representatives who can provide you with advice, assistance and support throughout the application process.
Contact a representative in your region

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/international-applying/doc/foundation-routes:
If you’re an international student and you don’t currently meet the entry requirements for our undergraduate or postgraduate courses, you can take a foundation course before going on to study for a degree at the University of Leeds.
If you are UK student, our types of course page includes information on Foundation year courses for you.
The Bachelor degree with integrated International Foundation Year begins with the International Foundation Year programme.
It helps to prepare you for the first year of undergraduate study.
Based on our campus, all your teaching will be delivered by University of Leeds academics and you’ll be a full University student with access to all our facilities and accommodation.
Once you have successfully completed the initial foundation year, you’ll progress onto one of more than 150 undergraduate degrees.
The Leeds International Study Centre International Foundation Year delivered by Study Group allows you to progress to year one of a range of undergraduate degrees at the University of Leeds.
It will help you to develop the skills and knowledge you need to succeed at university, providing flexible entry requirements and start dates in September or January.
The Leeds International Study Centre also offers International Year One programmes in certain subjects, allowing progression to year two of some undergraduate degrees at the University of Leeds.
For both of these programme options, you’ll be taught by Study Group staff and will be based at the Centre’s teaching facilities in Leeds.
The University of Leeds is an owner member of NCUK , which delivers undergraduate International Foundation Years and International Year One programmes at teaching centres worldwide.
Successful completion of NCUK qualifications enables progression onto a range of undergraduate courses at the University of Leeds.
NCUK delivers Masters Preparation programmes at teaching centres worldwide.
Successful completion of an NCUK Masters Preparation programme allows you to progress onto a range of postgraduate courses at the University of Leeds.
The Leeds International Study Centre Pre-Masters Programme , delivered by Study Group, allows you to progress to Postgraduate degrees in Business at the University of Leeds.
It will help you to develop the skills and knowledge you need to succeed at university, providing flexible entry requirements, and start dates in September or January.
For this Pre-Masters Programme, you’ll be taught by Study Group staff and will be based at the Centre’s teaching facilities in the city of Leeds.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/international-applying/doc/entry-requirements:
To study at Leeds, you’ll need to meet the academic entry requirements for your course and have a recognised English language qualification.
Use our Course Search to find the academic and English language entry requirements for your course.
Check the accepted qualifications for your country or region .
If you have any questions about your qualifications, email the International Office at internationaloffice@leeds.ac.uk .
We specify English language requirements in terms of IELTS.
We accept both IELTS Academic and IELTS for UKVI (United Kingdom Visas and Immigration) (Academic).
The test must be taken at a test centre.
We cannot accept results from an IELTS test that is over two years old at the start date of the course you intend to study.
You must meet the requirements through a single IELTS test, or via a single test and One Skill Retake.
We also accept a range of other English language qualifications, which are listed in the next section.
The following are the minimum English language requirements for each level of study.
Some of our courses have higher English language requirements.
Check the entry requirements for your course via Course Search or, for postgraduate research programmes, the relevant faculty graduate school website.
We offer pre-sessional English courses to improve your academic English language level and help you prepare for study in the UK.
You may be able to use a pre-sessional to meet the English language requirement for your course.
See the English language requirements for our International Foundation Year .
Check the English language requirements for Study abroad .
If you require a Student visa, you will need to have a Secure English Language Test (SELT) unless you are eligible for a combined Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS).
See our guidance on visas for Language Centre students .
You do not need a SELT if you will study the pre-sessional online.
The minimum grade required in your English language qualification depends on the length of the pre-sessional and the degree you intend to study afterwards.
Please check the Language Centre website for further information about entry requirements.
We accept the following SELTs:
For students who do not need a SELT, we also accept the following qualifications:
If you have taken or plan to take TOEFL iBT (Test of English as a Foreign Language Internet-Based Test), PTE (Pearson Test of English) Academic, LanguageCert Academic, Oxford ELLT (English Language Level Test) Global or a Cambridge English qualification, select the IELTS requirements for your course from the following list to view the equivalent grades that we require.
For other qualifications, check the course entry requirements or contact the course admissions team for guidance.
These scores can only be accepted for pre-sessional English courses offered by the Language Centre .
These scores can only be accepted for pre-sessional English courses offered by the Language Centre or for the International Foundation Year Design, Engineering and Science routes.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/international-fees-funding:
Find out how much your course will cost and read about the funding options available to you.
There are various costs you’ll need to consider when you come to study in the UK.
Costs can include your tuition fees, accommodation fees and living costs for things like food, transport and social activities.
How to finance your studies will be an important part of your decision making.
Funding may be available from government, independent sponsors or other funding bodies.
You might also be eligible for a scholarship from us to help with the cost of studying at Leeds, which doesn’t have to be repaid.
Your course fees depend on your level of study: undergraduate, Masters or postgraduate research.
Find out about our undergraduate tuition fees for international students and what they cover.
Learn about the international tuition fees for our Masters courses and how to pay them.
Read information about our annual fees for international postgraduate researchers.
There are a range of scholarships and funding options available to undergraduate, Masters and postgraduate research students.
We offer a number of subject-related academic achievement scholarships for international undergraduate students.
Find out about funding for international Masters students from the UK government, independent sponsors, the University and other funding bodies.
Up to 50% fee reduction scholarships are available for international Masters students commencing studies in 2025.
Explore University scholarships and funding for international research degree students from across our schools and subject areas.
We offer scholarships for forced migrants to the UK for any undergraduate or postgraduate taught degree.
Information for students in the United States of America who are considering taking out a Federal Direct Loan to fund their studies.
Read about the additional costs you may need to consider as a student.
Find out about living costs you will need to budget for, including accommodation, food, transport and study costs.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/international-meet-us:
Meet us at an event or fair near you to find out all about studying at Leeds.
Book a bespoke campus tour with a friendly student ambassador.
Speak to students from a range of subject areas and countries to find out what it's like to study here.
Whether you’re interested in undergraduate, Masters or research study, there are lots of ways you can find out information about studying here.
You can meet us at an event in your country or region or, if you're able to visit us on campus, you can book a bespoke campus tour or attend an Open Day.
If you can't make it to an in-person event, you can take a virtual campus tour , talk to a student or join an online event to get a feel for life at the University of Leeds.
Our overseas representatives can advise you about applying to study with us.
Join us at one of our Open Days to learn more about our undergraduate courses and explore campus.
Meet our Link to Leeds ambassadors online to learn more about student life in Leeds.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/international-meet-us/doc/representatives-country-region:
We work with representatives worldwide who can provide you with comprehensive support to apply to Leeds.
Use the contact details on this page to find an appointed agent in your city, country or region.
Our representatives, also called agents, are based around the world.
They have been carefully selected and are officially appointed University of Leeds representatives.
They have been provided with information and guidance on our courses, admissions processes and policies.
They will advise you throughout the application process and can help you make an informed decision about studying with us.
Some of our agents will offer face-to-face support and have offices in the town or city where you live.
Others may use digital channels to communicate with you.
The University pays commission to these agents if you receive their support and enrol on a course at the University of Leeds.
If you use their services it won't affect your chances of being accepted for a course.
We work with agents because it extends our global presence and many students find it beneficial to get help with applying for universities.
Please note: If an agent is not listed on this page, the University does not maintain relationships with them or endorse their services.
Agents can help you:
We expect our representatives to be reliable, honest, and trustworthy providers of advice and guidance to you and in all aspects of their business.
Agents:
At the University of Leeds, we are committed to the UK Agent Quality Framework (AQF) and pledge to create and maintain best practice in agent management.
We encourage informed decision-making and transparency for you.
We work together with our agents to ensure the UK remains a leading study destination for you and other international students.
Our teams based in Leeds and overseas can offer you general support and advice about studying at the University.
Find out when we will be attending an event in your country or region.
Chat with a current student to find out about life as an international student in Leeds.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/international-meet-us/doc/visits-country-region:
We regularly travel overseas to meet prospective students and advise them about life as an international student in Leeds.
If you have an offer to study with us, we also have international offer holder events and activities you can attend.
You can view the events we are attending, face-to-face and virtual, on this page.
If you would like to speak to a member of staff in the International Office you can contact our international teams .
If you have any questions, please email the International Office at internationaloffice@leeds.ac.uk .
Manama: Education Zone University Fair
Sao Paulo: QS Discover Masters Fair
Rio de Janeiro: QS Discover Masters Fair
Phnom Penh: Global Education and Career Expo
Toronto: CLFA UK Law Fair and Alumni Mixer
Toronto: SI-UK Autumn UK University Fair
Calgary: SI-UK Autumn UK University Fair
Victoria: SI-UK Autumn UK University Fair
Vancouver: SI-UK Autumn UK University Fair
Toronto: Access MBA Fair
Montreal: Access MBA Fair
Vancouver: Access MBA Fair
Shanghai: China PhD Workshop 2025
Beijing: China PhD Workshop 2025
Beijing: International Graduate Scholarship Fair (IGSF)
Beijing: QS Discover Masters Fair
Shanghai: QS Discover Masters Fair
Chengdu: QS Discover Masters Fair
Bogota: QS Discover Masters Fair
Bogota: StudyIn UK University Fair
Limassol: StudyNet Fair
Nicosia: StudyNet Fair
Cairo: International Student Fair
Paris: Elevate Paris Fair
Munich: International College Day
Frankfurt: International College Day
Cologne: International College Day
Berlin: International College Day
Kumasi: IDP Study World Expo
Accra: IDP Study World Expo
Hong Kong: British Council University Fair
Hong Kong: IDP Top Universities Day
Coimbatore: TC Global Education Interact
Nagpur (IT Park): KC’s UK Admissions Day
Nagpur (Sadar): KC’s UK Admissions Day
Kolkata: TC Global Education Interact
New Delhi: TC Global Education Interact
Pune: TC Global Education Interact
Bangalore: TC Global Education Interact
Mumbai: Access MBA Fair
Mumbai: Access Masters Fair
New Delhi: Access MBA Fair
New Delhi: Access Masters Fair
Pondicherry: KC’s UK Admissions Day
Bangalore: Access Masters Fair
Mumbai: TC Global Education Interact
Bangalore: Access MBA Fair
Mumbai: QS Discover Masters Fair
Bangalore: QS Discover Masters Fair
Jakarta: Access MBA Fair
Jakarta: Unimy Grad Fair
Surabaya: QS Discover Masters Fair
Osaka: StudyIn (SI) Autumn University Fair
Osaka: BEO Autumn Fair
Tokyo: Northern Consortium UK (NCUK) Fair
Tokyo: BEO Autumn Fair
Tokyo: StudyIn (SI) Autumn University Fair
Tokyo: QS Discover MBA Fair
Virtual: StudyIn (SI) Virtual University Fair
Amman: Bridge International Educational Fair
Nairobi: PG Event and Parents Evening
Nairobi: Parents Information Session and Postgraduate event
Ebene: Campus Abroad Fair
Petaling Jaya: IDP Study Abroad Exhibition
Kuala Lumpur: Unimy Grad Fair
Mexico City: QS Discover Masters Fair
Mexico City: Destination Britain Fair
Mexico City: EuroPosgrados 2025
Merida: EuroPosgrados 2025
Merida: EuroPosgrados 2025
Merida: Destination Britain Fair
Abuja: IDP Study World Expo
Lagos: IDP Study World Expo
Lima: QS Discover Masters Fair
Riyadh: UKUni Roadshow
Al Ahsa: UKUni Roadshow
Dammam: UKUni Roadshow
Jeddah: UKUni Roadshow
UKEN UK University Fair
Seoul: International Education Autumn Fair
Seoul: QS Discover MBA Fair
Barcelona: CIS International University Fair
Madrid: CIS International University Fair
Taipei: QS Discover Masters Fair
Taipei: OxBridge Autumn UK EduFest
Seoul: UKEN UK University Fair
Tainan: IDP Study World Autumn Exhibition
Kaohsiung: IDP Study World Autumn Exhibition
Taichung: IDP Study World Autumn Exhibition
Taipei: IDP Study World Autumn Exhibition
Taipei: European Education Fair Taiwan (EEFT) 2025
Bangkok: IDP Study World International Education Fair
Access MBA Fair
Bangkok: IDP Study World Study Abroad Expo
Bangkok: Unimy Grad Fair
Chiang Mai: IDP International Education Expo
Ankara: Education UK Days
Imzir: Education UK Days
Izmir: Education UK Days
Istanbul: Education UK Days (European Fair)
Istanbul: Education UK Days (Asian Fair)
Istanbul: Education UK Days (European fair)
Istanbul: Education UK Days (Asian fair)
Abu Dhabi: DP ME Study Abroad Expo
Dubai: IDP ME Study Abroad Expo
Dubai: UAE Education Fair
Abu Dhabi: UAE Education Fair
Dubai: Global Education Fair

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/international-meet-us/doc/international-campus-tours:
If you’re visiting the UK, our bespoke campus tours are a great way to get a feel for life at Leeds.
Each tour is led by one of our friendly student ambassadors and takes place mainly outside.
Our campus tours are not course specific, so you won’t be able to visit any academic schools but we’ll do our best to tailor the tour to your needs.
When you’re booking a campus tour, you’ll need to give at least a week's notice, so we can make sure everything is ready for when you arrive.
Campus tours are not available at weekends.
Request a campus tour
There’s limited parking available on campus for visitors attending campus tours.
Parking is also available in the city.
Learn more about travelling to Leeds .
We’re looking forward to showing you around in person but if you can’t wait until then, you can explore campus from home.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/international-students/doc/international-students-contact-us:
We can help you with any questions about preparing for your studies at Leeds.
Use the following contact details to get in touch with us.
We have teams based in Leeds and overseas that can offer you general support and advice in your country or region.
Our teams also organise and attend regular overseas events .
The International Office is based in Leeds and covers all countries.
Email the International Office at internationaloffice@leeds.ac.uk .
You can also receive updates by following the International Office Facebook page and International Office Instagram account .
Based in Beijing and Chengdu and covers China.
Visit the University of Leeds' Chinese website .
Email the China team at chinateam@leeds.ac.uk
Based in Leeds and covers Algeria, Bahrain, Egypt, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Morocco, Oman, Palestine, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Tunisia, UAE, Yemen.
Email the Middle East and North Africa Team at middleeast@leeds.ac.uk
Based in New Delhi and Chennai and covers Bangladesh, India, Nepal and Sri Lanka.
Email the South Asia Team at southasia@leeds.ac.uk
For more information visit the Leeds South Asia pages .
Based in Kuala Lumpur and covers Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam.
Email the Southeast Asia Team at seaoffice@leeds.ac.uk
For more information visit the Leeds Southeast Asia pages .
Based in Nigeria and covers Ghana and Nigeria.
Email the West Africa team at westafrica@leeds.ac.uk
You can also contact us for advice about preparing for university, travel, immigration and life in Leeds.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/international-students/doc/future-career:
We offer a broad range of opportunities to help develop your skills, boost your employability, and stand out to potential employers in the UK and overseas.
Here are seven ways to accelerate your future career as an International student at Leeds:
You’ll have access to a wide range of career support services including appointments with career consultants, mock interviews, drop-in sessions and expert guidance on working in the UK or overseas.
Our AI-driven tools will also enable you to perfect your CV, write compelling cover letters and enhance your LinkedIn profile.
Studying abroad, summer schools, research projects, leadership programmes and global industry projects are just some of the ways you can develop your employability skills and experiences while studying at Leeds.
Benefit from our “Exclusive to Leeds” programme, which offers paid internships and placements with companies in the UK.
You can also gain valuable work experience through Student Impact Internships and on-campus jobs.
These opportunities are designed to fit around your studies.
Connect with alumni and professionals for career guidance through our mentoring programmes.
You’ll learn from industry leaders for sector-specific advice on job applications, interviews, and career paths.
Volunteering is a great way to develop skills and meet people while giving back through local and international opportunities.
Volunteering will also help grow your confidence and enhance your communication skills.
You’ll have the opportunity to participate in large career fairs, industry-specific fairs and smaller employer panels.
It’s your chance to network with potential employers and engage with professionals in the fields that interest you most.
You could also engage with globally-focused networking events like the Asia Careers Insight Series, and participate in local and international training and leadership programmes.
Access MyCareer, our online platform for job listings, career events, and digital tools to support job searching and your applications.
You’ll also benefit from career articles, success stories, and helpful resources through the Career blog and International Student Sway app.
All of the latest career enhancement opportunities and events are available in the Careers section of the Students website .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/international-students/dir-record/profiles/15188/keshav-bansal:
After I finished high school in India, I wanted to go to university in another country.
I went to a University of Leeds seminar in New Delhi, where I learned about what Leeds and the UK was like.
The University of Leeds was my favourite choice, so I was really pleased when I was accepted.
Video transcript: Being an international student at the University of Leeds, Studying in a different country – Keshav Bansal .
I was a bit nervous coming to university because I’d never travelled alone before.
It was a big relief when I saw the University of Leeds sign at the airport.
The team were very friendly and helped me to get to my accommodation, where the staff helped me to settle in.
The International Student Office helped me open a bank account and answered lots of questions I had about life in Leeds and the UK – they were very friendly and it was a really smooth process.
It’s a very global, cultural environment.
I joined the Bollywood Dancing Society at Leeds University Union and even performed in a few shows!
I’d recommend the University of Leeds to anyone looking to study in the UK.
You can study anywhere in the world, but the opportunity to meet so many people from different backgrounds is only something you can do in places like Leeds.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/international-students/dir-record/profiles/15110/haleemah-alaydi:
Video transcript: Being a postgraduate international student at the University of Leeds .
You could say it’s the home of international students, with lots of creative things happening in the city.
Applying was very simple and easy and the International Team advised me about the visa process and timescales.
Before I arrived I was worried, but it was fine.
I booked the Meet and Greet service , which meant students from the University met me at the airport, answered my questions and took me to a taxi.
I felt very welcomed.
International Week was good for getting to know the University and the city.
I took some workshops with Skills@library about referencing, note-taking and research skills and writing.
This helped me because the teaching system is different at home, so you need to adapt.
I’ve joined societies that match my interests in poetry and the spoken word and met friends there.
I receive a [British government-awarded] Chevening scholarship too and every month I organise a meet-up with other Chevening scholars studying in Leeds.
I have friends from so many different nationalities.
The University isn’t just British, it’s global – it offers everyone the chance to practise their interests, be themselves, and to become international.
Local people are very friendly too.
I did a Host UK visit, where I spent the weekend with a British family in Sheffield.
My host showed me around the city and I tried some local dishes, including Sunday dinner with Yorkshire pudding.
She introduced me to her daughter and her granddaughter.
I loved every single thing about my visit.
We exchanged so many meaningful conversations and you can see, regardless of the differences people have, we’re very similar – everybody wants to connect and get to know each other.
I’m also a Link to Leeds ambassador .
This is a service to help prospective international students find out about life at the University of Leeds.
We answer their questions in emails and live chats, and I write blog posts for the website.
I really enjoy this work.
I want to share my experience to help other international students.
My advice to new international students is take advantage of everything the University offers you - clubs, societies, volunteering, the city and culture.
Some people focus only on their studies and then go back home, but I think being a student is about connecting and finding out about a different culture.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/international-visas-immigration:
All non-UK or Irish citizens need to hold an appropriate visa to study in the UK.
Use this page to check which type of visa you will need to study at the University of Leeds.
This will depend on the length of your chosen course or research period.
If you need help with preparing your visa application correctly, contact the Student Visa Advice service .
Our immigration experts provide free advice on immigration law and requirements for current and prospective students, and their families.
Read our visa comparison guide to help you decide which visa to apply for.
Discover who to contact and which visa you will need if you want to visit us as a short-term student or postgraduate researcher.
Check which visa you will need to attend a study abroad or exchange programme, or the Leeds International Summer School.
Find out which visa you will need if you are taking an English language course at the Language Centre.
Read our step-by-step guide on how to apply for a Student visa.
Use our handy checklist to see which financial documents you can provide to support your Student visa application.
If you have family members that you want to bring with you to the UK, find out who qualifies as a dependant and how they can apply for a visa.
If you will be studying a postgraduate course and are from outside the European Economic Area, check if you need an ATAS certificate.
Read more about how we will support you before you arrive.
Find out why thousands of international students choose to study with us each year and how we support them.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/language-centre:
Hear from staff and students how a Masters pre-sessional helps you adapt to study and life in the UK in this recorded talk.
Hear from current students about how a Masters pre-sessional helped them adapt to study and life in the UK.
We can help you improve your English language skills, whether you’re preparing to study at Leeds or want to get better at English for everyday situations.
Choose a pre-sessional course to develop your academic English and study skills before starting a degree, or try our General English course to improve your day-to-day communication skills and learn more about British culture.
Study with us and join a university with a global reputation.
We’re ranked in the top 100 in the QS World University Rankings 2026 .
The pre-sessional course gave me comprehensive preparation before my postgraduate study.
My course helped me to be well acquainted with all academic skills related to being a PhD researcher.
What stood out to me the most was the genuine care the teachers had for us.
The University of Leeds has been teaching academic English to international students for almost 50 years.
The Language Centre is part of the School of Languages, Cultures and Societies and our teaching staff contribute to academic research in language teaching .
This research informs our course content, which means you’ll receive high quality teaching designed to help you get the most out of your studies.
Our postal address is Parkinson Building, University of Leeds, Leeds, UK, LS2 9JT.
Find us on our interactive campus map .
You can also email the Language Centre at langc@leeds.ac.uk .
Register to watch our talk about studying a Masters pre-sessional at Leeds.
Sign up now.
Find out more about our staff and their expertise.
Hear from our students about their experience of improving their English language skills.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/international-exchange-and-study-abroad:
Immerse yourself in British culture while studying at a world top 100 university.
Through our study abroad programme you can spend a semester or a full academic year studying at the University of Leeds, then transfer the credits you earned here back to your home university.
You’ll study among inspirational experts who share your passion for your subject at a prestigious Russell Group university.
Tailor your experience by choosing from a wide range of modules and take advantage of life-changing opportunities in a student-friendly city while making new friends from all over the world.
Find out why you should study abroad at the University of Leeds.
Browse the modules that are available for exchange and study abroad students.
Find out how to apply to study abroad at the University of Leeds.
Check if you need to pay any tuition fees and if you’re eligible for any scholarships.
Join an online information event to find out more about our study abroad programme and hear from current students.
Discover what it's like to live in Leeds, a lively, student-friendly city in the middle of Great Britain.
Explore our accommodation and find your new home away from home.
Find out which visa you will need to study abroad at Leeds.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/international-foundation-year:
The International Foundation Year is an initial year of study for international students who want to progress onto an undergraduate (Bachelor) degree at the University of Leeds.
You’ll study a range of subject-specific, study skills and English language modules to fully prepare you for undergraduate study.
Based on our beautiful, single-site campus, all of your teaching will be delivered by our academics and you’ll have full access to all the University's facilities.
We're ranked in the top 100 in the world
Find out all about our International Foundation Year, how it works and the support we offer.
Explore our range of degrees you can study with an integrated International Foundation Year.
Check the academic and English language requirements for the International Foundation Year.
Read about the application process and apply for the International Foundation Year.
Check how much the International Foundation Year costs and if you’re eligible for any scholarships.
Discover all there is to do in Leeds, a lively, student-friendly city in the heart of Great Britain.
Explore our accommodation options and take a look around with a virtual accommodation tour.
Find out from our students how the International Foundation Year prepared them for undergraduate study.
See our step-by-step guide to help you gather key information and documents for a visa application.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/leeds-international-summer-school:
Spend an unforgettable summer studying at the University of Leeds, exploring the UK and making new friends.
Leeds International Summer School (LISS) combines world-class tuition and academic field trips with exciting excursions and social events.
Choose from a diverse range of academic modules, meet interesting people from around the world and immerse yourself in British culture and society.
LISS is open to students or recent graduates from universities across the globe.
Join us for the full four-week programme or a two-week block.
Our next summer school will run from 4 July–1 August 2026 (block one: 4 July–18 July, block two: 19 July–1 August).
Applications for LISS 2026 will open in November.
Receive the latest LISS news by email.
Learn all about the summer school and chat to the LISS team.
Find out why you should study at Leeds International Summer School.
Explore the exciting range of academic modules you can choose from at LISS.
Read about the application process and check our English Language requirements.
Find out what's included in the LISS programme fee and if you're eligible for any scholarships.
Join an online information event to find out more about the summer school and chat to the LISS team.
Discover all there is to do in Leeds, a lively, student-friendly city in the middle of Great Britain.
Check out our draft schedule of events to get an idea of the social activities and excursions we offer.
Watch LISS students and staff members explain what it's like to study at Leeds International Summer School:
Viewing from China?
Watch this video on Bilibili.
Video transcript: Leeds International Summer School (LISS).
Read about previous students' experiences at Leeds International Summer School.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/online-masters-study:
Join our community of online students with a 100% online Masters, PGCert or PGDip at the University of Leeds.
Discover the benefits of studying a 100% online course with Leeds to boost your career.
Learn more about how we deliver flexible online learning that enhances your knowledge and strengthens your career.
Discover a fully online postgraduate course with Leeds — explore our range of Masters courses.
Paying for online study with Leeds can be flexible, including module-by-module course fees.
We offer a wide range of support services for our fully online students.
Graduate at our historic red-brick campus, or choose an online ceremony.
A day you'll never forget.
Top 30 best universities in the UK

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/online-masters-degrees:
Explore the online Masters degrees offered by the University of Leeds and see what tutors and students say about our courses.
Influence AI strategy in your sector with our innovative courses, designed and delivered by computer scientists.
Work on projects in areas including AI, health informatics, urban analytics, statistical and mathematical methods, and visual and immersive technologies — preparing you for the future of data science.
Gain valuable knowledge and skills in the field of disability rights and social justice, learning from experts in an accessible specialised learning environment.
Our online postgraduate courses, designed by engineers, for engineers, will upgrade your knowledge and provide you with specialist management skills.
Led by experts from the Leeds University Business School and the School of Earth and Environment, these courses bring together sustainability and business to prepare you for a range of careers.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/online-masters-study/doc/why-study-online-leeds:
You can gain a University of Leeds degree and support your career goals with flexible online study that fits around your work and life commitments.
The University of Leeds is a world top 100 institution ( QS World University Rankings 2026 ), and we’re ranked 4th in the UK for universities targeted by the largest number of top employers ( Graduate Market Report 2024 ).
Our online courses are designed to meet the needs of online students, co-designed by academics and teaching specialists to deliver a challenging and fulfilling learning experience.
Learn more about online teaching at Leeds.
Online learning with Leeds allows you to study anywhere in the world, with access to top digital resources and, support from leading academics.
You’ll have the chance to collaborate with and learn from a global community of online learners in a range of industries, with online students from more than 90 countries joining our courses.
The opportunity to learn with a cohort of individuals with varying ranges of experience and backgrounds has been great in expanding my critical thinking and perspective.
It has helped me to always consider a number of viewpoints before making decisions.
Study online with the University of Leeds and you’ll gain a degree from a Russell Group university, renowned globally for the quality of our research and teaching.
You’ll be taught by subject experts in a stimulating and collaborative environment, with accessible digital resources to enhance your experience.
You’ll also have access to our full range of student services and expert support , from the first day of your course until graduation and beyond.
Our online courses are accessible from anywhere in the world, for study when it suits you.
Plan your studies around your job, family life or other commitments, and take breaks between modules if you need to.
Online learning could also save you money, cutting the cost of university accommodation and commuting to campus.
Our graduations are also flexible – choose from a virtual ceremony, or graduate in person at our historic red brick campus.
Either way, you’ll meet your fellow students to celebrate your achievements.
The reason I chose this course was based on the relevance, the time commitment for me, the University ranking and reputation.
I wanted people to notice me as having a recognised qualification on my CV.
Your connection to the University of Leeds does not end when you graduate.
You’ll become part of our global alumni community, with more than 300,000 Leeds graduates from more than 197 countries.
As a Leeds alum , you’ll have access to careers support, networking opportunities and the University’s ground-breaking research.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/online-masters-study/doc/how-online-teaching-works-leeds:
Our teaching and learning approach ensures you receive a flexible online education that enhances your knowledge and strengthens your career.
Our postgraduate courses are shaped by research-led academic expertise and the best approaches in online learning for that subject.
If you have any questions we’ll be on hand to support you through the decision-making and onboarding stages.
Online Masters and postgraduate courses with the University of Leeds include:
The discussion forum was one of my favourite features of the online course as it encouraged us to actively apply concepts being learned, observe diverse practical takes from the cohort, and interact in healthy debates.
Our modules are typically planned for 10 guided learning hours and 10 independent study hours per week.
Courses are structured so that you can take breaks between modules if needed.
Studying online meant I was able to work at my own pace, at a time of day that was most convenient for me.
Our dedicated Admissions and Enrolment Team is on hand to answer queries about our courses and how to apply.
They can advise you on:
Email the Admissions and Enrolment Team: onlineadmissions@leeds.ac.uk.
Once you accept your offer to study, you’ll receive welcome information including:
Our bespoke induction course will provide key information and opportunities to meet your peers and the academic and support teams for your programme.
All new students are encouraged to engage with the induction course to get a feel for the learning platform, understand how things work on a University of Leeds online postgraduate programme, and learn about useful resources available to you during your studies.
Once you start your first module, the concise, flexible course structure will guide you through your programme and you can return to the induction course for information at any point.
At Leeds we pride ourselves on the support we offer our students , and we’ll help you to thrive throughout your online studies.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/online-masters-study/doc/student-support:
At the University of Leeds, we’re with you every step of the way.
You will be supported by a range of expert staff and specialist services to help you succeed on your online course .
You will be able to access the same support as our on-campus students, right from your first point of contact with our dedicated admissions and enrolment team , all the way to to life after Leeds with our alumni team.
During your course, you will have a designated academic personal tutor who will support your success, and ensure you feel part of our diverse and vibrant community.
Your tutor will:
My supervisor encouraged me, giving me positive feedback and good energy to continue.
This made me realise 'OK, you are not alone'.
Technology should not be a barrier to online learning.
We’ll provide you with a student IT induction, covering essentials such as your login, security and connecting remotely before you begin your course.
Our team of experts at the IT Service Desk will be on hand to support you with any IT issues you may have with University systems.
Your time with the University of Leeds will offer exciting opportunities and experiences, as well as the chance to meet new people and rise to new challenges.
But we know there may also be times when you need extra support.
Our wellbeing and mental health services can support you throughout your course, helping you balance work, your studies and other commitments.
Read more about support offered by the University of Leeds .
E-books are just the beginning.
Our dedicated staff can help you find what you need, access primary research material and develop your study and research skills
Learn more about services and resources on the Library website .
We’re here to help you figure out what’s next — whether you’re seeking to start your career, land a promotion or break into a new industry.
Our team of careers experts can speak with you online and offer access to a wealth of resources.
Read more about Careers support on our For Students website.
Following your graduation, you’ll join our ever-growing, global alumni community and enter the next phase in your lifelong connection with the University of Leeds.
We’ll provide you with numerous benefits and additional support, from career development to networking, discounts and more.
Find out more about our alumni support and benefits .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/online-masters-study/doc/graduation:
With Leeds, you can study online then choose how you graduate — on campus, or at a virtual ceremony.
Every year our graduates, along with their families and friends, gather to recognise their achievements at a choice of campus, online or relaxed graduation ceremonies.
Celebrate your hard work and success and look forward to new opportunities on the horizon, no matter where you are located.
Video transcript: Flexible graduation options for online students at the University of Leeds
Our on-campus graduations give you the chance to celebrate with your classmates at a ceremony in our historic Great Hall.
You will also be invited to an informal reception where you can chat with staff and students.
Look the part in official University of Leeds academic dress, which you can hire from our supplier Ede and Ravenscroft, and remember your special day with professional photos and University memorabilia.
Our online graduations offer you the chance to celebrate your important milestone, wherever you are in the world.
They are an ideal option if you are unable to travel to Leeds.
Just like our on-campus ceremonies, each virtual ceremony will be streamed from the stage in our Great Hall.
Shortly before the day of your ceremony, you will receive a link to join the live proceedings, where you will be allocated to a breakout room with a small group of other graduates.
As the name of each graduate is announced by the Presiding Officer of the virtual ceremony, you’ll appear on the screen alongside other graduates in your group.
At this point you can turn on your camera, celebrate and wave to any family and friends watching online.
Our virtual ceremonies last between 30 minutes and one hour.
This experience is designed for students or guests with learning difficulties, autism, social anxiety, or sensory processing difficulties, and is also open to anyone who may find this alternative format more comfortable, subject to availability.
The ceremony will follow a similar format to our on-campus graduations, meaning you will be able to wear official University of Leeds academic dress, however, the ceremony is held in a smaller, quieter room in the Great Hall building.
There are accessible routes to all areas of your ceremony, and our friendly staff will be on hand to guide you.
For the comfort of our graduates and guests, relaxed graduation ceremonies don’t include loud music or applause.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/short-online-courses:
Discover our short online courses, designed by leading academics on a wide range of topics.
Learn at your own pace and enhance your employability.
Considering further study?
Sample subjects at Masters level with our introductory courses.
Boost your career and learn new skills with our CPD courses designed for professionals.
Develop your academic skills with our free online courses designed to help you thrive at university.
Get a taste of undergraduate study and explore degree subjects with our Going to University courses.
Take action to tackle the climate crisis and help build a sustainable, fairer world through impactful climate solutions
Learn how to take meaningful action on climate change with this free 4-week online course from the University of Leeds.
Explore the links between climate change and social justice, discover strategies to reduce carbon emissions, and develop your own climate action plan.
The course starts 12 May — join now on FutureLearn.
This new free course is for anyone passionate about climate action and social justice.
You’ll explore how addressing the climate crisis isn’t just about cutting emissions but also about creating a just, fair society.
Learn how climate solutions across energy, transport, food systems, and business can reduce emissions and promote fairness for vulnerable communities.
The Click Start programme helps 16 to 30-year-old UK residents gain essential digital and professional skills to strengthen their career prospects.
Our online courses, hosted on learning platform FutureLearn, will help you develop skills for careers in tech industries and develop digital, professional and problem-solving skills to boost your career.
Access more than 20 courses, assignments and certificates for free.
Over 100 online courses
90.5% customer satisfaction rate
More than 2m online learners
I was really impressed by the academics on the program as they are really committed and I would recommend the Environmental Challenges program to friends and colleagues that want to acquire some more knowledge on the subject.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/click-start:
With in-demand skills including coding, data, web development and more, Click Start courses can enhance your CV and boost your career.
Develop your digital skills with our free Click Start courses, available on online learning platform FutureLearn.
Whether you're interested in coding, programming or web development, Click Start offers short, specialised courses to help you start your dream tech career.
Learn in-demand skills and build your confidence in fast-growing fields including artificial intelligence (AI), software development, cloud computing and more.
Click Start courses can also help you build professional skills including problem-solving, decision-making and communication to help your CV stand out.
Each course takes six to eight hours of learning, which you can complete at your own pace, with no previous experience required.
Developed by the Institute of Coding and funded by Nominet, Click Start has delivered free training to more than 26,500 learners across the UK since its launch in 2023.
Browse the full programme of Click Start courses on FutureLearn.
Video transcript: Unlock next-level jobs with Click Start — free digital skills courses.
Highly engaging, inspiring, and valuable.
I loved the examples used – I felt that it really aligned with my interests.
These courses are all super valuable — they break down concepts and make things really, really accessible for everyone.
I love that it brings in people from diverse backgrounds that are otherwise under-represented.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/short-online-courses/doc/masters-taster-courses:
Our online Masters taster courses are designed for graduates or professionals considering postgraduate-level study.
Our diverse range of courses, offered by online learning platforms FutureLearn and Coursera, are designed by top academics at the forefront of their subjects and informed by the latest research.
Each course or course collection focuses on a specific field of study and some may lead to formal continuing professional development (CPD) accreditation.
Our courses can help you enhance your Masters application and demonstrate an understanding of your chosen subject.
Explore the fundamentals of exploratory data analysis on Coursera.
Gain insight into data types, data cleansing, and data visualisation techniques using R software, preparing you for further studies or enhancing your data analysis skills.
This course, a taster for our Online MSc in Data Science (Statistics) , offers practical examples and real-life applications suitable for learners of all mathematical backgrounds.
Sign up for Exploratory Data Analysis on Coursera .
Explore the basics of programming and familiarise yourself with the Python programming language.
This course is a good introduction for students considering our online MSc Data Science (Statistics) , and Msc in Genomic Medicine with Data Science and offers a solid foundation in programming with Python.
Sign up for Programming for Data Science on Coursera .
Sign up for Python for Data Science on FutureLearn.
Build your statistics and probability expertise with this short course which explores the difference between data and information.
Real-life examples and practical R software skills help you acquire statistical skills by practising techniques and software commands and engaging in discussion with fellow learners.
This course is a taster course for students considering our Online Masters in Data Science (Statistics) .
Sign up for Statistical Methods on Coursera .
This collection of five courses delves into the complexities of interactions between humans and nature and environmental management policies.
You will be introduced to concepts and insights relevant to Masters degrees in environmental management .
This course is accredited by the CPD Certification Service.
Learn more about the courses included in the Environmental Challenges collection .
Explore challenges and innovations within the transport sector, addressing the needs of a modern society.
Ideal for those considering a Masters degree in transport , this course examines emerging technologies and global issues.
Sign up for Transport Systems: Global Issues and Future Innovations on FutureLearn .
Discover how to lead impactful, values-driven change.
This taster course gives you practical tools to lead sustainability initiatives—and is a perfect introduction to our Online Masters in Sustainable Business Leadership .
Sign up for Leadership and Change Management for Sustainability Success on FutureLearn .
Explore how businesses can be part of the solution.
This taster course introduces key models and practices for a greener future—ideal preparation for our Online Masters in Sustainable Business Leadership .
Sign up for Sustainability in Business: Building a Greener Future on FutureLearn.
Consisting of three courses, this Coursera Specialization covers essential aspects of project management, from performance measurement to governance and financing.
You will learn best practices to help you excel in managing large-scale engineering projects.
The courses offer practical insights and a pathway to the online MSc in Engineering Management or can be completed by professionals aiming to improve their project management skills.
Sign up for Managing Major Engineering Projects on Coursera .
Investigate ethical dilemmas surrounding big data and tax avoidance, prevalent in today’s business landscape.
Ideal for prospective students interested in Masters degrees in ethics , this course sheds light on ethical challenges and their implications.
Sign up for Business Ethics: Exploring Big Data and Tax Avoidance on FutureLearn .
Examine the ethics of imprisonment in the context of England and Wales, contemplating alternative forms of punishment.
This course provides valuable insights for prospective students interested in Masters degrees in law or Masters degrees in social sciences .
Sign up for Incarceration: Are Prisons a Suitable Punishment?
on FutureLearn .
Gain insights into the social model of disability, and understand its origins and impact on global perspectives.
Led by Leeds academics and disability activists, this course offers a social lens on disability studies, aligning with our online Disability Studies, Rights and Inclusion MSc .
Sign up for Social Model of Disability on FutureLearn .
Learn more about how our short online courses work, including enrolment and certificates: Short online courses guide: how to enrol and access courses .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/short-online-courses/doc/online-continuing-professional-development:
Boost your career with our online continuing professional development (CPD) courses.
At the University of Leeds, we understand the importance of staying relevant in today’s ever-evolving professional landscape.
That’s why we offer a diverse selection of high-quality, accredited CPD courses tailored to meet the needs of professionals across various industries.
With our CPD courses you can keep your skills up to date and ensure your qualifications do not become outdated, studying at a time that suits you.
External investment and philanthropy have always been crucial for arts and culture organisations.
As the sector recovers from the pandemic, fundraising is more important than ever.
This online course, led by experts in the area of arts fundraising, will let you pick up practical skills to help you fundraise from a variety of sources and build resilience, even in times of crisis.
This course will be useful to anyone working in the arts and culture industry who wants to take their first steps in fundraising or requires a refresher.
Sign up for Essentials in Arts Fundraising on FutureLearn .
Effective leadership is vital for successful fundraising in the arts and culture; a sector that heavily relies on external funding as part of its income mix.
This three-week course delivered by industry experts is designed to help you understand your role as a leader in developing and embedding fundraising with your arts organisation.
You’ll learn how to evaluate the effect of your organisational culture and stakeholders' roles on the effectiveness of your current fundraising and explore techniques that help you develop organisational resilience and economic growth at all times.
This online course will be of interest to anyone working or aspiring to work as a senior decision-maker in the arts and cultural sector.
Sign up for Leadership in Arts Fundraising on FutureLearn .
Enhance your problem-solving abilities with this three-week course offered by the University of Leeds and the Institute of Coding.
Learn how to identify and prioritize the right problems to solve in both personal and professional contexts.
Sign up for Decision Making: How to Choose the Right Problem to Solve on FutureLearn .
Enhance your decision-making and problem-solving abilities with this insightful two-week course offered by the University of Leeds and the Institute of Coding.
Learn how to use data to make informed business decisions and solve real-world problems.
Sign up for Evidence and Data Collection for Problem Solving on FutureLearn .
Designed to enhance your design thinking and human-centered design approach, this course is perfect for those looking to solve problems by understanding and addressing the needs of people.
Sign up for Get Creative with People to Solve Problems on FutureLearn .
Discover the art of computer programming and learn what code can do.
In this course, you’ll find out how and why people programme computers.
Using an introductory block-language for coding, you’ll discover the kinds of problems that computers can help you solve.
You’ll explore different types of coding languages and discover a variety of useful applications of code.
Sign up for Computer Programming for Everyone on FutureLearn .
Elevate your digital marketing expertise with our focused course on user experience for mobile apps.
Designed for those interested in app design and UX, this two-week course from the University of Leeds covers the essentials of smartphone interaction, app design, and prototype testing.
Sign up for Digital Marketing: Creating a Great User Experience for Mobile Apps on FutureLearn .
Unlock the potential of social media with this two-week course from the University of Leeds and the Institute of Coding.
Perfect for marketers looking to enhance their digital strategy, this course will guide you through the essential steps to planning and launching a successful social media campaign.
Sign up for Create a Social Media Marketing Campaign on FutureLearn .
Enhance your digital marketing skills by mastering online content creation.
This two-week course from the University of Leeds will guide you in crafting engaging content that aligns with your business goals.
Explore the essentials of effective messaging, tone, and media formats to enhance your online presence.
Sign up for How to Create Great Online Content on FutureLearn .
Learn the basics of web development with this essential coding course.
Over two weeks, you'll gain practical skills in HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, crucial for building and styling web pages.
Sign up for Learn to code for the web  on FutureLearn .
This course is designed to help scientists, researchers, as well as ecology enthusiasts, develop skills in using radar to explore biodiversity.
You will explore the origins and evolution of radar from a military technology to a powerful tool with multiple scientific applications, including aeroecology.
You will then be introduced to studying global biodiversity trends and learn how to evaluate traditional methods and emerging technologies used by scientists to monitor the natural world.
Sign up for Aeroecology: Exploring Biodiversity with Radar on Coursera .
Even small climate changes can have large-scale consequences in agriculture and food systems with devastating effects on the people and their economies.
In this course, you will learn strategies designed to mitigate the impact of climate change, develop resilient food systems and create sustainable development in local communities.
Sign up for Climate Change and Resilience in Food Systems on FutureLearn .
This course will help you understand the principles of bioenergy, one of the most diverse and readily available sources of renewable energy.
You’ll learn how to harness this form of green energy to achieve sustainability.
You will also explore the social, economic and environmental implications of bioenergy and get to know how it is used around the world.
This skills-based course will enable you to create real-life energy solutions and help you develop as a professional.
Sign up for Renewable Energy: Achieving Sustainability through Bioenergy on FutureLearn .
This course explores global approaches to electrification via a national grid, off-grid, micro and mini-grids and reflects on the barriers to affordable, clean and fair access to electricity.
You will then delve deeper and discover microgrids.
You’ll learn how and when to use them, how to plan for one and consider the socio-economic and environmental implications of their usage.
This skills-based course will enable you to conduct a feasibility study for creating your own microgrid in a small village and accessing its impact.
The course was interesting and I learnt lots of new ideas.
The technological aspects of planning microgrids and how to implement them was great.
The case studies made the case very interesting.
Sign up for Renewable Energy: Sustainable Electricity Supply with Microgrids on FutureLearn .
Discover versatile special educational needs and disabilities (SEND) strategies to support diverse learners and foster inclusive classrooms in this four-week introductory course.
Learn how to approach supporting individuals with disabilities in education contexts, with practical case studies to deepen your understanding and help you to apply your knowledge in the real world.
Sign up for Inclusive Education: Exploring SEND Practice and Strategies on FutureLearn .
Modern agriculture and global food systems have become very complex and do not always provide people with affordable and nutritious food.
This course presents current research, which aims to place nutrition at the heart of the food system and will help you to develop skills to implement and evaluate nutrition-sensitive interventions yourself.
This course is based on research led by experts in agriculture, nutrition and environmental sciences from the University of Leeds, the University of Pretoria and the Food, Agriculture and Natural Resources Policy Analysis Network (FARNPAN).
Sign up for A Nutritional Approach to Agriculture and Food Security on FutureLearn .
Explore the human abdomen and its many complex structures through stimulating discussions on surgical procedures.
This will help you to apply your understanding of basic anatomy to common clinical scenarios and introduce you to research being undertaken at the University.
Sign up for the Exploring Anatomy course on FutureLearn .
This three-week course explores some of the key challenges of ensuring food safety faced by researchers, policymakers and individuals worldwide.
You’ll investigate some well-documented food scandals and scares as well as hidden or chronic exposures to contaminated food before you learn about innovations designed to counter food safety risks.
This course draws from innovative research into food safety and nutrition conducted by the University of Leeds, Jiangsu University in China, and the Nelson Mandela African Institution of Science and Technology in Tanzania.
Sign up for Food Safety and Nutrition: A Global Approach to Public Health on FutureLearn .
Explore how medical treatments are discovered, tested and evaluated to improve healthcare for all.
You will work through case studies and examine how research contributes to the treatment of major diseases, such as cancer and dementia, examining the process of conducting research and the ethical questions raised.
This course has been certified by the CPD Certification Service as conforming to continuing professional development principles.
By completing the course you will have achieved 16 hours of CPD time.
Sign up for the Improving Healthcare Through Clinical Research course on FutureLearn .
Learn how to manage innovation in this course developed by world-renowned academics in strategy and innovation from the Leeds University Business School and IBM.
Understand why organisations need to establish an innovation process and manage innovation systematically.
Sign up for the Innovation Management course on Coursera .
Master remote collaboration with this two-week course.
Designed for the evolving digital workplace, this course will help you excel in remote working environments.
Sign up for Collaborative Working in a Remote Team on FutureLearn .
Improve your communication skills at work and learn how to navigate positive collaboration in the modern workplace.
In this course, you’ll learn the importance of matching your communication style with your work and project goals and learn how to manage and control challenging conversations.
Sign up for Communication and Interpersonal Skills at Work on FutureLearn .
Boost your employability with this two-week course from the University of Leeds and the Institute of Coding.
Designed to help you refine your digital identity, this course ensures your online presence enhances rather than hinders your professional image.
Sign up for Create a Professional Online Presence on FutureLearn .
Take charge of your career development and identify the skills you need to plan and achieve your career goals.
Sign up for Essentials Skills for your Career Development on FutureLearn .
Study the evolving landscape of technology and its impact on the workplace with this two-week course from the University of Leeds and the Institute of Coding.
Gain insights into how digital trends shape our professional lives and future-proof your career.
Sign up for Learn about Current Digital Workplace Trends on FutureLearn .
Elevate your presentation skills with this two-week course.
Ideal for anyone needing to communicate ideas clearly and effectively, this course will help you make an impactful impression in any setting.
Sign up for Presenting Your Work with Impact: Presentation Skills Training on FutureLearn .
Training online or completing online courses as part of your work is very different to face-to-face learning as it often involves independent study and a different set of skills.
This online course has been developed to help you to develop effective online learning strategies that work for you.
Discover how to learn from different media, how to communicate online or contribute to online discussions and how to effectively collaborate with others.
Sign up for Training and Learning Online on Coursera .
Learn how to thrive in today’s dynamic work environment with this two-week course from the University of Leeds and the Institute of Coding.
Develop the resilience and adaptability needed to excel in the digital workplace.
Sign up for Wellbeing and Resilience at Work on FutureLearn .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/short-online-courses/doc/online-courses-academic-skills:
As a university student, you may come across new ways of learning, studying, and communicating.
To help you thrive at university, we have developed a series of free online courses.
Enroll and boost your academic skills.
These online courses have no prerequisites and are available on FutureLearn.
This two-week course will help you to understand the importance of active listening and show you practical strategies to help you improve your listening skills for academic success.
Sign up for listening skills to succeed at university on FutureLearn
Prepare for university and master academic skills essential for undergraduates studying in the UK.
In Skills to Succeed at University, you will pick up top tips and first-hand advice on how to start and thrive at university from current students who came to the University of Leeds through different routes, such as after completing a BTEC, A-levels, or as mature students.
Sign up for skills to succeed at university on FutureLearn .
Learning to work in an online environment is an essential skill not only for the university but also later on in life.
In this course, you will explore different approaches to online learning and develop practical skills that will enable you to become an effective online learner at a university level.
By the end of the course, you’ll have mastered the independent study skills and tools for online learning that work for you.
Sign up for the preparing to learn online at university course on FutureLearn .
Critical thinking is a vital skill at university and later in life.
University study introduces you to new concepts, and ways of learning and requires you to think critically.
This course will show you what critical thinking skills you need at the university level, how they can be applied to different disciplines and how to use practical strategies to develop these skills for a successful academic life.
Sign up for the critical thinking course on FutureLearn .
Real-life problems are too complex to be solved by a single field of study.
That’s why learning to work across different disciplines is a vital skill in our modern society.
Join this course to understand what interdisciplinary learning is, the challenges of working in an interdisciplinary environment, and practical strategies to overcome them.
This is an essential course if you are doing or thinking of starting an interdisciplinary degree or research.
Sign up for the interdisciplinary learning course on FutureLearn .
Research ethics is vital when using social research methods like questionnaires or interviews.
Non-ethical research may put research subjects at risk and could jeopardise the validity of your findings.
Join this course and learn the principles of ethical research and how to manage people in sensitive and appropriate ways.
You will consider issues like gaining consent and making sure personal information is handled safely.
Sign up for the ‘introduction to research ethics’ course on FutureLearn .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/short-online-courses/doc/undergraduate-taster-courses:
These free online courses, part of our Going to University collection, are specifically designed for students at high schools or colleges.
They provide a taster of undergraduate study at the University of Leeds.
Each course or collection of courses (FutureLearn Program) is focusing on a specific field of study.
The online courses will help you pick up key skills that would enable you to study online and will extend your knowledge in a specific topic.
This way you will be able to decide which subject to study at university.
If you are a teacher, find out how you can use these online courses in your teaching on our pages with additional guides, resources and support.
The courses are delivered on FutureLearn, where you will join a community of online learners from around the world.
See the courses included in the following categories and find the right course for you:
Shaped by the latest research from the University of Leeds and delivered by leading Leeds academics who are experts in their field, our online courses offer many benefits if you are considering university including:
The courses take place entirely online, providing opportunities for interactive learning through videos, articles, quizzes and discussions.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/short-online-courses/doc/short-online-courses-guide-enrol-access-courses:
Our diverse range of short online courses can be accessed through our partners FutureLearn and Coursera.
Here’s how our short online courses work including enrolment, access to course materials and certificates.
There are four collections of courses, depending on your academic level:
Most of our courses have no entry requirements and are open to learners of all backgrounds and experience levels.
However, some advanced courses may require specific knowledge or skills — this information will be included in the course page.
Once you have chosen your course, you will need to enrol through either the Coursera or FutureLearn website.
Information on how to enrol can be found on the course page.
All of our online courses are available for free for a limited time, allowing you to explore different subjects and course materials without any financial commitment.
The length of time you will have free access may differ between Coursera and FutureLearn, and the different courses.
This information will be provided when you enrol.
Our short courses include pre-recorded video lectures, readings and interactive activities.
You can also interact and collaborate with fellow learners in discussions, forums and group activities.
Course materials can be accessed via web browsers and using the Coursera and Futurelearn mobile apps, compatible with smartphones and tablets.
If you wish to earn a certificate once you have completed your course, you can upgrade to obtain a course certificate, for a fee.
Upgrading will also provide you with unlimited access to the course materials and assessments.
Both FutureLearn and Coursera offer advanced online learning options to help you further your education.
The University of Leeds offers these advanced course options:

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/online-courses/doc/phd-distance-learning:
The faculties of Environment and Arts, Humanities and Cultures offer PhD by distance learning across most schools.
PhD by distance learning allows you to study at a time and place that suits you and, with a part-time option available, you'll have the flexibility to gain an advanced degree alongside work and other commitments.
Through completing a PhD, you will become an expert in a specialist area and gain high-quality research training.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/online-courses/doc/video-transcript-online-learning-leeds:
Video transcript for ‘Online learning with Leeds’, embedded on the Online Courses homepage .
(The Marjorie and Arnold Ziff building on the University of Leeds campus is shown, with the text ‘online learning’ imposed on the building.
Dr Margaret Korosec, Dean of Online and Digital Education, is shown walking towards the building, carrying a laptop.
She is shown walking into the Great Hall, and through the Brotherton Library, then entering a recording studio and sitting on a chair in front of a camera.)
Dr Margaret Korosec: Online learning offers a flexible opportunity to achieve a degree at the University of Leeds.
It's about part-time engagement balancing your own work life.
It's about progressing your career, and it becomes a very dynamic space to learn.
(Dr Margaret Korosec is shown entering the Helix learning hub.)
Dr Margaret Korosec: Our academic community inform everything.
(Dr Jonathan Muir, Programme Lead for Sustainable Business Leadership, is shown in the Helix building.
He sits on a chair in front of the virtual reality omnideck facility.)
Dr Jonathan Muir: We're involved with the design, the development and the delivery of our modules.
So when students are studying, they are getting that research-intensive expertise.
(Dr Margaret Korosec is shown sitting in the recording studio.)
Dr Margaret Korosec: We also have our industry partners and industry boards those inform the curriculum.
(Dr Graham Murphy,  Programme Lead for Data Science Statistics, takes a seat in Helix, where Dr Muir was previously sitting.)
Dr Graham Murphy: So that students are experiencing the same kinds of project challenges that is out there in the real world.
(Online students are shown taking part in video calls on their laptops.
A tutor is shown entering a room with recording equipment, before Dr Margaret Korosec appears on screen.)
Dr Margaret Korosec: How do you learn online?
It's a mix of theory, practical application, independent learning.
(Dr Graham Murphy appears on screen.)
Dr Graham Murphy: The University has a wealth of online resources to support our students.
(Dr Margaret Korosec appears on screen.)
Dr Margaret Korosec: Academically and from a student success perspective.
(A tutor is shown hosting a webinar, using a computer and recording equipment.)
Dr Graham Murphy: Live webinars every week.
(Dr Jonathan Muir appears on screen.)
Dr Jonathan Muir: Readings, videos, podcasts, formative tasks, case studies.
(The screen shows Dr Margaret Korosec being filmed in a studio.)
Dr Margaret Korosec: Live engagement is also recorded so there's an opportunity to return to it.
Dr Graham Murphy : We have online discussion forums where you can talk to your peers.
You can talk to your tutors.
Dr Jonathan Muir: The online community is truly global.
(The screen shows the faces of different students, and an online student taking part in a video call with nine people shown on her computer screen).
Dr Margaret Korosec: We have early career individuals.
Dr Jonathan Muir: Others who are already at a good level but want to get to that next level.
Dr Margaret Korosec: Those at the end of their career looking for a shift in what they want to do next.
Dr Jonathan Muir: Not only is there a sharing of work related experience, they also share experiences from their own countries and from their own cultures.
Dr Graham Murphy: It's a really active and engaging learning environment.
(The screen shows the University of Leeds campus and the Parkinson Building.
Dr Margret Korosec is shown in the recording studio.)
Dr Margaret Korosec: There's something about the cohorts themselves.
You only need to come to graduation, where our online learners have the opportunity to come onto campus and they're meeting each other for the first time.
(The screen shows students in graduation robes with their friends and family, smiling and taking pictures outside the Great Hall on campus.
Dr Margaret Korosec appears on screen.)
Dr Margaret Korosec: And, you know, the dynamic there is so tangible, the community that they have the bond that they have.
(Dr Graham Murphy appears on screen).
Dr Graham Murphy: That's a happy event, it's the end of your time with us in one way, but it's only the start of your time as a Leeds alumni.
(Students are shown working on laptops and taking part in video calls.
Dr Jonathan Muir appears on screen.)
Dr Jonathan Muir: We provide a really high quality learning experience.
(Dr Graham Murphy is shown taking part in a video call.)
Dr Graham Murphy: We're really looking at trying to blend practice and theoretical understanding.
So that they're in a really good position to then progress their career and move to the next level.
(The screen shows tutors working in a recording studeo.
Dr Margret Korosec appears on screen.)
Dr Margaret Korosec: If you're considering applying to an online degree at the University of Leeds, you will engage directly with an academic community at the forefront of research to encourage you, to support you and to achieve the success and ambition that you have for yourself.
(Dr Margaret Korosec gets up from her chair and walks off-screen.
The video ends showing the empty chair with the University of Leeds logo and the words ‘online learning’ on screen.)

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/online-masters-ai:
Our Artificial Intelligence (AI) courses offer specialist learning in high-demand skills, exploring innovative technologies such as machine learning, data mining and robotics.
Influence AI strategy in your sector with our innovative courses, designed and delivered by expert tutors from the School of Computer Science .
Study specialist modules developed in response to market needs at this crucial time for businesses navigating AI and its work-related challenges.
Our courses are tailored to the specific needs of technical professionals, and could help you become an AI developer, manage and plan AI solutions in your current organisation, and develop your academic knowledge of the field.
Visit the course pages for detailed course information, fees, how to apply and more.
99% 'world-leading' or 'internationally excellent'
Partner of the Alan Turing Institute
"I learned a lot.
And it's a supportive environment, which is maybe harder to find elsewhere."
"Studying online meant I was able to work at my own pace, at the time of day that was most convenient for me."
"I would definitely recommend this course.
I believe it is a good entry point for anyone who wants to understand the role of artificial intelligence and help to prepare themselves for any kind of job in the data science industry."
"The best aspect of the course is that it’s very much practically oriented and you will learn very new topics including those explored in research papers that have only just been published."
"I chose to study this course online because it allowed me to keep my job while being able to pursue the Masters."
Learn more about the Artificial Intelligence industry and how our courses could help advance your career.
Can the application of Artificial Intelligence in healthcare administrative tasks reduce financial outgoings, while increasing job satisfaction for professionals?
From travel developments in the form of autonomous vehicles to changes in education such as teaching via virtual tutors, artificial AI is rapidly changing our everyday lives.
AI is revolutionising the workplace, but it brings ethical challenges like bias, accountability, and reliability.
We explore how they can be addressed to ensure fairness and safety in AI applications.
AI is already transforming businesses across the world, regardless of size and scope, including helping to create opportunities for developing nations to grow.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/online-masters-data-science-statistics:
Our interdisciplinary online course brings together applied research groups and data scientists, developed in collaboration with the School of Mathematics and the Leeds Institute for Data Analytics.
Our course will help you gain the skills needed for essential senior roles in healthcare or environmental science.
Visit the course page for detailed course information, fees, how to apply and more.
Catch up on our recent webinar to explore the MSc in Data Science (Statistics).
Learn about the curriculum, career opportunities, and how this programme can help you develop in-demand skills in data science.
Watch a Q&A with our Data Science (Statistics) MSc programme leads.
Our expert academics discuss key topics such as the expertise you will gain, statistical modelling, project integration and career paths.
Video transcript for Insider Insights: Data Science (Statistics) MSc Expert Q&A
These short online courses offer an introduction to our Data Science (Statistics) online Masters course and are created from modules taught on the degree.
Available on online learning platform Coursera each course provides a taste of Masters-level learning, designed by academics.
Delve into Python programming, and creative data analysis techniques and master statistical methods with courses designed to develop your data science knowledge and skills.
Covering the fundamentals of exploratory data analysis, our online short course includes data types,data cleansing, and data visualisation techniques using R software.
It takes nine hours to complete.
Learn programming basics and introduce yourself to Python programming language with our short course, which takes eight hours to complete.
Exploring the difference between data and information, this course uses real-life examples and software skills to develop your statistics and probability expertise.
It takes 11 hours to complete.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/online-masters-disability-studies:
Our fully online Disability Studies, Rights and Inclusion courses will help you develop specialist skills that enhance the well-being of individuals and communities.
Build the confidence to become a change-maker and build more inclusive societies.
Our School of Sociology and Social Policy is ranked in the top 15 for UK social policy by the Complete University Guide (2024) and delivers our pioneering, 100% online Disability Studies, Rights and Inclusion Masters course, as well as postgraduate certificate and postgraduate diploma courses.
Learn more about how you can make a difference in the field of disability rights and social justice with our ground-breaking online degree, MSc Disability Studies, Rights and Inclusion.
Video transcript: Studying MSc Disability Studies, Rights and Inclusion.
Audio described version of Studying MSc Disability Studies, Rights and Inclusion .
"The fundamental advantage of online learning is the ability to learn in my own surroundings, at my own pace, and at a time that is convenient for me."
"I think the majority of people on the course were disabled themselves.
I'm not disabled, so it was really helpful to have that the sort of personal insight and reaction to what we were learning."
Learn about the social model of disability and its transformative impact on society with our two-week course developed by experts at the University of Leeds.
The course offers a fresh perspective on disability studies, focusing on its historical roots, societal barriers, and ways to foster inclusion.
Delivered on online learning platform FutureLearn, this online short course is ideal for anyone seeking to deepen their understanding of diversity and equality.
Sign up for our Masters taster course on FutureLearn.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/online-masters-engineering-management:
Our Engineering Management Masters degree will enhance your practical and theoretical knowledge of modern engineering with a technology-focused perspective, alongside valuable management techniques.
Our shorter Engineering Management Postgraduate Certificate, a Level 7 qualification, is ideal for engineers looking to progress their career but unable to commit to a full Masters degree.
Top 100 in the world for chemical engineering
Top 10 in the UK for civil engineering
Top 100 in the world for engineering and technology
Top 10 in the UK for mechanical engineering
"This course helped me discover an interest and a career path that I would not have discovered if not for my postgraduate certificate at Leeds."
"It was really good because we were used to just working on our own steam and at our own pace.
It was great to interact with people in other parts of the world."
“I really enjoyed the amount of different subjects the course covered, and the perspectives we could all bring."
Our online learners share what it's like to study engineering management at Leeds.
The course is designed to serve engineers at different stages in their careers, especially those that want to shift to managerial positions and obtain technical skills and experiences that make their work more successful.
Learn more about the latest trends in engineering and how our courses can help you grow your career.
we share our top reasons to study Engineering Management, its importance and how it could help you progress in your career.
Taking the leap to integrate your technical skills with management skills is the perfect way to progress an engineering career.
The need for engineering companies to invest in socially responsible initiatives continues to rise amid fluctuations in legislation and demands from consumers, stakeholders, and pressure groups.
In an era defined by rapid innovation, disruptive technologies are reshaping the engineering landscape and challenging traditional business models at an unprecedented pace.
Explore the more of the key benefits of possessing a CMI-accredited Masters in Engineering Management.
Effective engineering project management requires a blend of strategic planning, strong leadership, and the ability to manage complex constraints.
Learn more about four key strategies.
Our online specialization, Managing Major Engineering Projects, offers experience of Masters-level study and provides a pathway to our online Engineering Management MSc.
Consisting of three courses delivered on the online learning platform Coursera, this collection covers best practice in managing large-scale engineering projects, from measuring performance to governance and financing.
The courses — Major Engineering Project Performance, Major Engineering Projects: Governance, Risk and Scope, and Financing and Initiating Major Engineering Projects — can be taken individually and in any order.
The specialization provides a comprehensive overview of the Managing Major Engineering projects module taught in our Masters programme.
Sign up for Managing Major Engineering Projects on Coursera
At the core of these programmes is Leeds University Business School, which holds major accreditations from leading international bodies in recognition of our research and teaching excellence.
We are one of a small number of business schools worldwide to be triple accredited by the three leading bodies: the AACSB Global Business Education Network, the Association of MBAs (AMBA) and the EFMD Quality Improvement System (EQUIS).

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/online-masters-genomic-medicine-data-science:
Our fully online Genomic Medicine with Data Science courses will prepare you for the future of discovery and development of medicines.
We will unlock your potential in shaping understanding of diseases such as cancer using bioinformatics and large data sets.
Designed to fit around your commitments, you’ll gain the skills to use large volumes of complex data, encompassing genomics, proteomics, metabolomics, phenotypic data, epidemiology and clinical trial investigations, to improve the understanding of disease mechanisms.
This will include the use of bioinformatic tools and statistical principles and methods that are foundational to artificial intelligence.
Watch our on-demand webinar to discover how the MSc in Genomic Medicine with Data Science can prepare you for roles in the pharma industry, NHS, and beyond.
Dr David Starns walks through the course structure and skills you’ll develop.
Video transcript for Revolutionise medicine online: MSc in Genomic Medicine with Data Science
Meet two of the experts who teach on this course.
Learn about their backgrounds in the subjects, interests and what you’ll learn.
Right now, the idea of using genetics as a routine part of clinical practice is just starting to open up.
It’s an exciting time!
Four of our world-renowned schools have collaborated on this truly interdisciplinary programme, with the aim of upskilling you to transform data into discovery.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/online-masters-global-health:
Our fully online Global Health courses will help you to tackle worldwide challenges with an interdisciplinary approach to policy, politics, and public health.
These programmes are designed for ambitious students looking to shape and contribute to the future of global health.
Gain a 100% online postgraduate degree from the University of Leeds, which is ranked 22nd globally for Development Studies in the QS World University Rankings 2025.
If you missed our recent webinar, watch the recording to learn more about the Global Health MSc, including employability outcomes, the admissions process, and insights from the academic team.
Learn more about how the University of Leeds online Masters in Global Health equips you to tackle today’s most pressing health challenges – from strengthening systems and using AI to shaping policy and driving global change.
Watch the audio described version: Transform global health: Study the Online MSc Global Health at University of Leeds .
Read the transcript: Transform global health - Study the Online MSc Global Health at University of Leeds .
Meet the experts who teach on this course.
This programme caters to those interested in improving global health policy and overall population health.
It is designed to give students a comprehensive understanding of global health, its key determinants and dynamics, and potential solutions.
“The online Global Health MSc at the University of Leeds will prepare students to tackle issues around environmental, social, commercial, and digital determinants of health.”
Two of our world-renowned schools collaborate on this transformative programme to deliver an interdisciplinary approach which will equip you with the skills to shape and influence global healthcare.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/online-masters-sustainable-business-leadership:
Led by experts from the Leeds University Business School and the School of Earth and Environment, these online courses bring together sustainability and business to prepare you for a range of careers.
Learn sustainability concepts and techniques and how to develop strategies to lead organisational change with our Sustainable Business Leadership Masters degree.
Or study specialist modules that equip you with the skills today's employers are looking for with our Sustainable Business Leadership Postgraduate Certificate, with the option to continue to complete the full Masters degree.
Our courses could help you advance your career as a sustainability analyst, project manager, compliance manager, sustainability marketing manager or corporate social mobility manager.
"I truly appreciated the support from my supervisor.
She was brilliant and she's very professional and she's very good at encouraging me to go further in my research."
"The cohort was very global.
It was really interesting to have that global perspective in the class.”
"Leeds spoke to me because it was about business, leadership and sustainability.
I think that approach to business leadership really helped me."
"Each module tackles a different theme and makes us consider a variety of topics from a sustainability perspective, from business solutions to contemporary economics and governance policies."
You will be taught by and learn alongside subject matter experts at the top of their fields in both academia and industry.
You will learn from the latest research to put you at the forefront of sustainable business leadership.
"Develop skills in policy, governance and sustainability, while taking a critical look at the relationship between business and sustainability." Learn more about Dr Smith's background and research.
"Sustainability isn’t a luxury; it’s a survival strategy — a commitment to safeguard our planet for us and generations to come." Learn about Dr Sigaroudi's background and research.
Lean more aboiut the latest trends in sustainability and how our courses could help you to advance your career.
Explore three examples of sustainable business models and consider how you can leverage business model innovation as part of your company’s sustainability strategy.
Doughnut Economics offers a fresh perspective on realistically balancing the needs of people with the limitations of our planet.
Legislative changes such as The Environment Bill, political policies such as G7 pledges and consumer demand are dramatically shifting sustainability from a nice-to-have to a critical consideration.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/dir/student-profiles:
Engineering Management
"Online, I feel more confident, I have seen good participation from my colleagues in the class as well."
"I chose the online option with Leeds so that I can tackle my learning in small chunks in my own time to keep my work-life and academic balance in check."
Disability Studies, Rights and Inclusion
"There was such a mix of experiences in the group.
I think the majority of people on the course were disabled themselves.
“I found studying online really convenient as it was quite flexible to manage alongside my full-time role.
It also presented an opportunity to learn alongside an international cohort diverse in experience and perspectives."
"With the online interaction aspect of this course, I hope to see what innovations and design adaptations from other engineers/industries may be beneficial to my current role and industry."
Sustainable Business Leadership
Artificial Intelligence
"I have really valued the way in which the course content incorporates interviews with experts in the field of study as this gives me a good perspective of the real world and a balance between academic and practical elements."
"What really stood out for me is the course content; it truly will give me an edge in my practical work."
"I would say it is a fantastic course.
I have developed a lot intellectually and intelligently, I understand things better in the wider business workplace, and I can look at things with a more mature perspective."

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/directory-record/22375/anaz-abbas:
I chose the University of Leeds because of its prestigious reputation as a member of the Russell Group, known for its excellence in research and teaching.
The university's position in the top 100 global rankings was a significant factor, reflecting its commitment to high academic standards and international recognition.
Specifically, the Engineering Management course offered a comprehensive and well-structured curriculum, with a range of modules that perfectly aligned with my career aspirations.
The blend of engineering principles and management practices provided a unique interdisciplinary approach which further helped me define my career aspirations down the line.
I found the course materials very up to date and covering challenges of both present and future.
The weekly catchups and breakout groups with the instructors and my cohort was very useful to clear doubts, discuss concepts learned, and improve critical thinking.
I was surprised by the age group in my cohort.
I had the opportunity to discuss, debate, and learn from a cohort that included professionals at varying career stages, from junior engineers to directors.
I was also pleasantly surprised by the number of practical case studies on leading multinationals and interviews with leadership figures in these organisations, which was a great addition to visualising the real world application of the concepts learned.
I faced mainly three challenges: getting used to studying completely online coming from a classroom experience, getting used to critical thinking and referencing systems critical to the assignments, and finally managing a full-time role alongside the demands of learning and assignments.
But I was able to overcome these due to the extensive support provided by the online learning platform in getting used to navigating it, support by my personal mentor and instructors in practicing critical thinking and referencing correctly, and the organised and structured nature of the programme.
Since finishing my studies I have gone on to do a full time Masters in Business Analytics and Big Data and currently work as an Innovation Analyst.
I see the course I did at Leeds as the origin point for my current position as it introduced me to the subject of business analytics and concepts of decision making.
This helped me discover an interest and a career path that I would not have discovered if not for my post graduate certificate at Leeds.
My experience of utilising critical thinking, referencing and learning under a UK higher education programme helped to excel further in my masters.
The strong industry led programme design has also helped immensely solidify my understanding of concepts and knowledge of best practices.
I would advise anyone interested in pursuing postgraduate education to be really sure about the subject they pursue — research and ensure the modules in the programme are of interest to you, and never shy away in asking questions.
Questions never asked are opportunities to excel missed.
Learn more about our online Engineering Management Masters and postgraduate courses.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/online-courses/blog:
Dr Laura Smith is a lecturer on the online Sustainable Business Leadership Masters and teaches topics such as sustainability, business, policy and governance, and sustainability.
The number of careers in sustainability management continues to grow in a variety of sectors including technology, healthcare, and finance.
Progressing into Engineering Management is a natural step for many professional engineers, no matter the specialisation you work in.
In this blog, we explore how to become an engineering manager and the four key routes you can take to progress.
Artificial Intelligence (AI) is one of the most quickly evolving and promising technologies currently in development across multiple industries around the globe.
Whilst we are still far from knowing the impact AI will have on the future, developing
Dr Abdulrahman Altahhan is the Programme Lead for the online Artificial Intelligence MSc delivered by the University of Leeds, and a Senior Teaching Fellow in Artificial
In this blog, we’ll explore three examples of sustainable business models and consider how you can leverage business model innovation as part of your company’s sustainability strategy.
In this blog, we’ll assess four of the most disruptive technologies that
In this blog, we explore four key strategies that can help engineering managers successfully navigate
Artificial Intelligence (AI) is shaping many global sectors.
Degradation of the natural environment and the climate crisis are complex issues requiring the most advanced and innovative solutions.
But how much can AI really contribute to resolving

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/doc/researcher-development:
We continually invest in academic talent and provide an environment that enables our researchers to thrive and succeed.
We run the Crucible Programme at Leeds which is designed as a development programme for early career academics.
Participants are sought from across the University to break down barriers between disciplines.
Time and space away from the ‘day job’ allows people to develop novel ideas and methods.
External speakers are invited to provoke challenge-led research ideas using creative thinking approaches.
The outcomes are wide-ranging and include:
We have recently recruited 180 University Academic Fellows (UAFs).
These are future research leaders who follow a structured five year development and induction programme leading to a permanent position at the level of Associate Professor and Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy.
The UK Research and Innovation Future Leaders Fellowships is an initiative to grow the strong supply of talented individuals needed to ensure a vibrant environment for research and innovation in the UK.
University of Leeds researchers have been awarded Future Leader Fellowships in each of the cohorts so far.
This unique 12-month fellowship programme aims to build innovation culture and develop the next generation of academic entrepreneurs at the University of Leeds.
The fellowship will help early to mid-career researchers to contribute to the strategic direction of research and innovation within their faculty; deliver impact through their research on society, policy and business; and further their personal development.
Fellows will have access to an inspiring network of trusted business experts, senior academics and University of Leeds alumni, through our Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) based mentoring programme, which matches a dedicated group of three mentors to every one fellow.
In becoming a Michael Beverley Innovation Fellow, not only will these academics be accelerating their own research journey, they will also be a part of the creation of an outward facing and entrepreneurial culture which will become a USP for the University, and will build the reputations of both the University and the city of Leeds as destinations where entrepreneurs can thrive.
Find out more about the Michael Beverley Innovation Fellowship Programme .
Through our ‘top performers’ scheme, we recruit academics who excel in their field, are recognised for their first-rate research reputation and lead research groups or institutes.
These research leaders share our commitment to solving global problems and are instrumental in growing key research areas.
In addition, they often chair prestigious committees, research council panels or editorial boards and provide professional guidance by being trustees or members of external bodies.
Our research leaders include Professor Helen Gleeson , Head of Physics.
Leeds Doctoral College creates a real sense of community and shared endeavour among our 3,000 postgraduate researchers.
It brings together support and opportunities to enhance the postgraduate experience at Leeds.
At a local level, we have graduate schools within our faculties; they provide training and host conferences, seminars and social events for research students.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/doc/partnerships-collaborations:
We have been developing our partnerships with research institutes, governments, businesses, charities and other universities, as well as a wide range of stakeholders, over many years.
Nexus, the University’s £40 million innovation hub , demonstrates our commitment to building collaborations with businesses to help them innovate and grow.
Our strategic relationships with KPMG and NorthInvest ensure the business community within and through Nexus receives a wealth of support including: commercial advice, investment connections and funding opportunities.
As an anchor institution, we strive to bring economic, health, environmental and social benefits to our local communities.
We place ourselves at the heart of the region, but with an outward looking aspect that reflects our international standing.
We value our strong partnerships with local and regional stakeholders including:
The University is also a partner in a number of prestigious national institutes representing excellence in specific disciplines:
We are also a founding member of the Met Office Academic Partnership which aims to develop the atmospheric science leaders of the future.
Further afield, we have developed relationships with global university networks that enable us to work closely with research-intensive universities in order to help meet the United Nations sustainable development goals.
The University is a member of a number of international networks including:
As well as working with other higher education institutes and networks, we have an established track record of working with businesses of all sizes from start-ups through to large corporate organisations.
We transform academic research into commercial success, we support our academics to do this and have an impressive track record in creating innovative spin-out companies.
Six of our spin-out companies are listed on the Alternative Investment Market (AIM) and employ over 1000 people in high value jobs.
Commercialisation of the University’s intellectual property through spin-outs and licences benefits the businesses, social enterprises and operations we work with by generating impact and economic growth.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/doc/rai-join-us:
We are looking for talented academics to push the frontiers of knowledge and discovery to shape a better future.
There are a number of ways you can work or collaborate with us:

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/doc/research-culture-statement:
Our University Strategy, Universal Values, Global Change: University of Leeds Strategy 2020 to 2030, provides a blueprint for a values-driven university that harnesses its expertise in research and education to help shape a better future, working through collaboration to tackle inequalities, achieve societal impact and drive change.
Focusing on three core themes – Community, Culture, and Impact – it sets out our ambition to offer a collaborative, supportive and safe environment for the entire University community and emphasises the importance of teamwork and diversity.
Our Statement on Research Culture reflects these values.
Our research culture initiatives – starting formally in 2021 – will be key to delivering the University strategy.
Research culture describes the environment in which research and innovation happens.
It includes the ways in which we collaborate, communicate and interact; the behaviours, expectations, attitudes and values that shape how our research is developed, conducted, disseminated, and used; and the mechanisms by which our work is recognised and rewarded.
Video transcript: University of Leeds Strategy – Research Culture .
At the University of Leeds, we recognise and value everyone involved in research.
Participants; our collaborators and partners; academic, research and technical staff; colleagues in professional services; students, and those in many other diverse roles within the University all make essential contributions.
Together we arrange, enable, conduct, and participate in research.
Equally, we believe that all members of our research community have a role to play in developing and promoting a positive and inclusive research culture, and that a good research culture benefits everyone involved in the research endeavour and has a positive impact on our research.
We have a collective responsibility towards all research stakeholders to strive to be good citizens, locally, nationally and globally.
We believe that Leeds is well known for its collaborative and collegiate approach, which facilitates outstanding interdisciplinary research that in turn supports both innovation and enterprise, as well as research-based education and teaching.
We also acknowledge that our research culture is not perfect.
We recognise that our research environment is not as diverse as we would like it to be, that we inherit a hierarchical culture in which contributions to the research endeavour have not been equally recognised, and that we need to do better to provide a safe and supportive environment that enables individuals or groups within our research community to tell us when things are going wrong.
In December 2020, we began running a series of Culture Cafés to gather views from across our research community on the challenges they face, what we are doing well as an institution, and what a better research culture might look like at Leeds.
These Cafés form part of an ongoing project to promote a positive research culture, and the discussions have helped us to propose solutions for change.
In autumn 2021, the University appointed its inaugural Dean for Research Culture.
This post is key to developing and implementing our research culture strategy, in collaboration with the Deans for EDI, Pro-Deans for Research, senior Professional Services colleagues, and colleagues from across the University.
Our Research Culture Statement is our commitment to achieving positive change.
It sets out as series of actions to promote a more supportive, inclusive, and collaborative research culture across five broad themes:
Our Research Culture statement is also a starting point.
We recognise that building an inclusive and supportive Research Culture at Leeds will be a dynamic process.
We are committed to embedding good practice as it emerges, to embracing new opportunities, and to continuously reviewing our progress.
2021/22 is our discovery phase, during which we are running extensive consultations with research stakeholders.
We are holding conversations with diverse individuals and groups, spanning academic and Professional Services colleagues from across the University.
We are forming strategic groups such as the Responsible Metrics group, the Open Research group, and the Research Culture steering group, and forming allegiances with external bodies such as the N8 Research Culture group.
We are also working to ensure our initiatives are adequately resourced as we develop a full strategy and action plan for research culture in 2022/23.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/main-index/news/article/5654/graduate-start-ups-boost-leeds-business-engagement:
Helping graduates start their own businesses and upskilling partner companies has boosted Leeds’ placing in this year’s Knowledge Exchange Framework (KEF).
The University has long held a strong position in the framework, which measures how the higher education sector has a positive effect on the wider world.
Areas examined range from the numbers of members of the public attending events, to income from research partnerships with businesses, public sector organisations and charities.
Other measures include success in continuing professional development (CPD) in which universities enhance the skillset of employees at organisations they work with.
Leeds works with a wide range of regional, national and international companies including Spanish multinational clothing company Inditex – whose brands include Zara – with staff taking part in CPD courses run by the University’s School of Design.
The University retains the highest score possible for intellectual property (IP) and commercialisation, as a result of attracting very high levels of income from IP as a proportion of research income, alongside attracting high levels of external investment for University spin-outs.
Leeds has also maintained its position in the best possible grouping – the top 20% – for income from consultancy work, contract research and use of facilities by the public and other sectors in the framework published by Research England, which is part of UK Research and Innovation – the country’s largest public research funder.
Professor Nick Plant, Deputy Vice-Chancellor: Research and Innovation at Leeds, said: “The results of this year’s KEF are testament to how the strength of our collaborations with partners and communities across the region, nationally and internationally enable the dissemination of our world-leading research, innovation, and knowledge for significant socio-economic benefit.
“By working in close partnership with innovators, we can support our entrepreneurs to turn their research into new technologies, spinouts and start-ups that make a positive difference to people’s lives.”
Seven areas are considered as part of the KEF : CPD and graduate start-ups; IP and commercialisation; local growth and regeneration; public and community engagement; research partnerships; working with business; working with the public and third sector.
Over the last three years at Leeds, the number of graduate start-up companies has risen from 55 to 65 created each year.
This includes SPARK scholar Lyndon Timings-Thompson.
The SPARK programme offers free support to enable University of Leeds students and graduates to set up their own business.
A SPARK Enterprise Scholarship comes with a £3,000 grant and tailored business support including access to office space and advisers for current students.
Lyndon became a SPARK scholar after he learnt he could apply for the scheme even as an alumnus.
He said the help and support received through the scheme had been invaluable.
Lyndon, alongside his business partner James McBride, run their company We Are Social Enterprise, from NEXUS , the state-of-the-art innovation business hub on campus.
We Are Social Enterprise is a construction recruitment agency that specialises in supporting disadvantaged groups with employment through both skills and financial support.
The firm has placed more than 500 individuals into work with companies such as Willmott Dixon and Morgan Sindall Construction since its launch.
Both Lyndon and James have been recognised as some of Europe’s top young entrepreneurs following inclusion in Forbes’ 30 under 30 Europe list for 2024.
By working in close partnership with innovators, we can support our entrepreneurs to turn their research into new technologies, spinouts and start-ups that make a positive difference to people’s lives.”
Other significant strengths at Leeds include a very high proportion of paper co-authorship with non-academic partners, and high levels of income from contract research with both big business and SMEs.
In its local growth and regeneration activities, Leeds has significant strengths which are not necessarily covered by KEF, including its work with Yorkshire Universities, the N8 Research Partnership, and the White Rose Consortium.
These partnerships have led to influential regional activity led by Leeds including Y-PERN and YPIP, which bring researchers and policy makers together to support evidence-based policy making that drives regional growth and productivity.
Alongside Research England’s KEF findings, a new report from investor Parkwalk and analytics firm Beauhurst places Leeds in the top rankings for investment into university spin-out companies in 2023.
Based on the number of equity deals secured by spin-out companies, Leeds placed 13th in the UK, with total equity investment of £25.3m.
And in an international survey, commissioned by Leeds Academic Health Partnership, Leeds was ranked second for investment into innovative wellness companies, and third internationally as a location for healthtech companies.
The University also pursues its support of spinout companies through Northern Gritstone – an independent investment company founded by the universities of Leeds, Manchester and Sheffield.
Professor Plant said: “Our partnerships that support the city’s Innovation Arc and Investment Zone drive regional innovation and economic growth through a place-based approach.
“We leverage research and innovation expertise, student talent, and collaborative partnerships to further enhance how we share knowledge to create a healthier, greener and inclusive future for Leeds, the region and across the globe, and to create a talent pipeline at the forefront of technological advances.”
KEF aims to increase efficiency and effectiveness in the use of public funding for knowledge exchange and to further a culture of continuous improvement in universities’ economic and collaborative impact.
For more information, please contact the University of Leeds Press Office .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news/article/5831/global-networks-advance-wildlife-research:
Yuri Njathi and Lorna Mugambi from Dedan Kimathi University of Technology in Kenya, presented their research findings to AI and ecology experts at the University of Leeds, illustrating how knowledge can be shared across borders to make a difference in the world.
Yuri and Lorna’s work looked at the development and use of camera traps, which provide valuable wildlife data that could answer questions about animal species, population sizes and animal interactions.
The two students have used machine learning-based methods to explore camera trapping data at scale.
The animals captured in these images include zebras, hyenas, lions, ostrich, warthogs, elephants, aardvarks and cheetahs.
The work showcased evolved around the need to detect the endangered Grévy's zebra and to estimate its relative population.
90% of Grévy's zebras are thought to be present in Kenya.
They previously presented their research at an AI in ecology workshop at Deep Learning Indaba X Uganda last year .
Presenting our research at the conference was pivotal.
Without the work we put in and the platform that conference provided, this visit simply wouldn't have happened.
Yuri Njathi, who is studying his MSc in Electrical and Electronics Engineering, said: “The beauty of the visit was that it will enable students who have skills in applied AI, like us, and experts in ecology to work together.
This will ultimately enable quicker answering of ecological questions and working towards goals more efficiently.”
“The visit has connected us to more researchers and ecologists who have a strong background in Zoology which is the kind of collaboration we would love to be involved with.
“After the presentation we received questions about how we can integrate this system with work in crayfish detection.
We also met with a postdoc from Ethiopia based at the University of Leeds working on bioacoustics and camera trapping in the Omo River valley (on the border with Kenya) where other Grévy's zebras are expected to be present.
This opportunity has been fantastic for providing us with the kinds of connections that can be mutually beneficial for the future.”
The duo’s AI analysis ensures more accuracy and speed by analysing up to 30,000 camera trap images to quickly identify which image holds the answer to research questions.
The images found that for one Grévy's zebra, there were typically three Plain zebras at that conservancy.
These findings are encouraging for the students and would lead to deployments over a longer period to analyse more data and to integrate their models with the systems at the conservancy.
The images the students have captured are in partnership with the Dedan Kimathi University Wildlife Conservancy next to the Dedan Kimathi University of Technology as well as the Mugie Wildlife Conservancy .
They also spoke about work on monitoring insects by analysing images, a partnership between their centre, the Centre for Data Science and Artificial Intelligence and the UK Centre for Ecology & Hydrology .
Lorna, who has completed her MSc in Telecommunication Engineering, explained that the fantastic opportunity began at the Deep Learning Indaba X Uganda conference in 2024, where the Leeds Africa Hub for Data Science and Artificial Intelligence sponsored their attendance.
She said: “Presenting our research at the conference was pivotal.
“It's been incredibly beneficial to talk through the problems we all face, particularly in the ecology field.
Despite working with different species – from our mammalian focus to their deer and crayfish research – many of the challenges with camera trap data proved to be remarkably similar.
“We even found that some of our solutions could be readily applied to their datasets, like those for crayfish, bridging a significant gap in our shared work.
“I’ve really enjoyed this visit and meeting with Professor Richard Mann and the ecologists at the University of Leeds.”
Richard Mann, Professor of Mathematical Ecology and Evolution at the University, said: “It has been a real pleasure to host Lorna and Yuri in Leeds, where they have showcased their research in applying Data Science and AI to a range of disciplines.
“Lorna and Yuri are great examples of the exciting work that is being done in Data Science and AI across Africa, and especially the potential of early career researchers to contribute to their own societies and also to the global development of Data Science and AI research.”
Yuri and Lorna were given the opportunity through the Leeds Africa Hub for Data Science and Artificial Intelligence which has enabled them to connect with different researchers from different places.
During their time in the UK, the two students also visited Swansea University and gave a similar presentation to ecologists.
For more information, please contact Rebecca Hurrey at r.hurrey@leeds.ac.uk in the University of Leeds press office.
Deep Learning Indaba X Uganda was organised by the University of Leeds and Deep Learning Indaba—a group that aims to spread knowledge and help more people across Africa to contribute to machine learning and AI conversations.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news-1/news/article/5739/health-researchers-changing-lives-early-in-their-careers:
Health and medicine researchers who are changing lives with cutting edge research early in their careers are being celebrated in a special exhibition at the University's Parkinson Court.
Edward Taylor ignored the first bowel cancer home test kits he had received; he felt fit and healthy so thought he had nothing to worry about.
It was when his wife Linda encouraged him to send off a sample that the 71-year-old learnt he had advanced bowel cancer, which had already spread to his liver.
The news came as a huge shock to Edward, from Rawdon, and his family, after he’d felt no symptoms, but after an urgent referral to Leeds Cancer Centre he was successfully treated with chemotherapy and surgery, and was even able to play a part in research making treatment safer for patients in the future.
Edward said: “The trial was something simple I could take part in but has the potential to transform outcomes for future patients, trials like this are the only way to push things forward.”
Image: Edward Taylor, 71, took part on Dr Alexios Dosis' research trial.
Image: Ruby Lee @ruby.angelaleephoto
While he was in hospital receiving chemotherapy treatment, Edward was approached by Dr Alexios Dosis who invited him to take part in a clinical trial funded by Leeds Hospitals Charity.
Now their story is featured in a special exhibition about the inspirational work of early career researchers, funded by Leeds Hospitals Charity, on display in the university’s Parkinson Court.
The trial Edward took part in looked at using innovative wearable devices to assess people’s fitness at home ahead of their surgery – which is key to reducing complications after surgery - instead of using more traditional tests like riding an exercise bike.
Edward said: “Although I was fit and well enough to use the traditional bike test, I understood that many patients who are frail or have limited mobility would really struggle.”
Understanding a patient’s fitness helps doctors plan their care, and understand what complications they might face, but traditional methods like the exercise bike test are difficult for people with limited mobility.
Dr Alexios Dosis, a clinical fellow in the Leeds Institute of Medical Research , was part of the research team led by Professor David Jayne in the School of Medicine .
He said: “The trial conducted in Leeds is the largest of its kind in the world using wearable technology in the preoperative setting in clinical trials.
Leeds Hospitals Charity funding has enabled Leeds to become one of the first to use innovative medical grade technology in research to make major abdominal surgery safer for patients.
“We are now analysing the results and hope that this will enable us to create new models with prediction scores, helping us to better understand risks that patients may face.
It’s been amazing to see how willing our patients are to support research that will benefit future generations of cancer patients.”
Dr Dosis hopes that in time the technology can be used for “prehabilitation” for patients having surgery, and could be rolled out for other patients, for example people waiting for transplants.
These inspiring stories really showcase the impact early career researchers and their transformative research can make to patients and their families.
The exhibition, Our Research Story, is a collaboration between Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust and the University of Leeds to showcase the work of early career researchers funded by the Leeds Hospitals Charity.
Professor Nick Plant, the deputy vice chancellor for research and innovation, said: “At the University of Leeds our community of researchers work in collaboration to deliver transformational, fundamental and challenge-led research to advance knowledge and create solutions to local, national and global challenges.
“We recognise and value everyone involved in research, and these inspiring stories really showcase the impact early career researchers and their transformative research can make to patients and their families now, and in the future.
“The exhibition will bring prominence to how the funding from the Leeds Hospital Charity has enabled this amazing community of researchers to push the boundaries of medical knowledge and discovery to improve the health and well-being of our community in Yorkshire and beyond.”
This exhibition is a way for us to show the people behind the projects and shine a spotlight on the incredible difference they are making.
Over the last five years the charity has invested £7.06 million in research projects across Leeds Teaching Hospitals.
The charity’s head of grants Rebecca Baldaro- Booth said: “We’re proud to support the work of early career researchers in Leeds, unlocking opportunities for them to progress in their career and spearhead life-changing research.
This exhibition is a way for us to show the people behind the projects and shine a spotlight on the incredible difference they are making.”
Our Research Story celebrates eight early career researchers who have worked on groundbreaking studies thanks to funding from the charity.
It also shares the perspective of six patients, like Edward, and their families.
The exhibition features beautiful images captured by Leeds Arts University student photographer, Ruby Lee, and is on display in Parkinson Court South all week from February 24 to March 2 2025.
Alternatively, you can view the full exhibition online on the charity website.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/research-32/news/article/5829/world-s-largest-tropical-peatlands-revealed-to-be-more-than-40-000-years-old:
An international team of researchers has shown that the tropical peatland complex, which is the world’s largest, began forming about 42,000 years ago, more than 20,000 years earlier than previously thought.
Dr Greta Dargie of the University of Leeds, School of Geography , led the study.
She said “These peat swamp forests are a globally important carbon store, holding the equivalent of three years of global fossil fuel emissions.
We now know that they are among the most ancient tropical peatlands on the planet”.
Peat is a type of soil that forms in wet environments.
Made up of dead plant litter, it is an important part of the carbon cycle.
While it is well known that the Congo Basin’s forests store a lot of carbon in the biomass of the living plants, the work of Dr Dargie and others over the past decade has shown that Congo Basin peatlands store a similar amount of carbon out of sight below ground.
This realisation has revolutionised scientific understandings of the importance of the region for the global carbon cycle.
The new study, published today (29 July) in the scientific journal Environmental Research Letters, began with teams of scientists trekking through remote and inaccessible peat swamps in both the Congo and Democratic Republic of the Congo, using hand-operated equipment to collect samples of the peat from up to six metres below the forest floor.
Back in the laboratory, tiny amounts of the peat were dated using radiocarbon, to determine when the peat began to form in each sampled location.
Over a period of 10 years the scientists collected and dated more than 50 cores from across the central Congo Basin, from which they were able to build up a picture of the development of the peatlands through time.
It is not just the great age of the peatlands which came as a surprise to the scientists.
Professor Ifo Suspense from the University of Marien Ngouabi, Brazzaville, in the Republic of the Congo, said: “One of the most unexpected findings which came from our new data is that some of the older peatlands in central Congo Basin began forming during periods of the past when we think that the regional climate was a lot drier than it is today.
“Our previous working hypothesis was that the peat began forming in response to a wetter climate at the start of the Holocene epoch, around 12,000 years ago.
But we now know that factors other than climate must have made the soils wet and waterlogged enough for peat to form.
This raises questions about how the peatland landscape, and the large amount of carbon it stores, will respond to 21st century climate change.”
Where peatlands have been disturbed by people around the planet, they have released huge amounts of carbon to the atmosphere, exacerbating global warming.
The Congo Basin peat swamps provide important resources for local communities such as fish, bushmeat and building resources.
Their remoteness means that the swamps are important refuges for species such as forest elephants, dwarf crocodiles, lowland gorillas and bonobo chimpanzees.
Compared to many tropical regions, the Congolese peatlands have largely escaped threats such as deforestation and drainage, although the drive to improve local livelihoods and extract resources such as timber and oil for export could potentially come into conflict with the goals of biodiversity and carbon conservation.
“The great age of the peatlands drives home how valuable they are,” said Dr Pauline Gulliver of the University of Glasgow, a co-author of the study.
“There has been peat here, quietly drawing carbon out of the atmosphere, and safely storing it for at least forty millennia.
The peat can’t be replaced on any timescale that’s meaningful to society.
“Where peatlands have been disturbed by people around the planet, they have released huge amounts of carbon to the atmosphere, exacerbating global warming.
The carbon in the Congo basin peatlands requires careful treatment so that the same thing does not happen here.”
‘Timing of peat initiation across the central Congo Basin’ is published today (29 July) in the journal Environmental Research Letters
Top image: A swamp forest in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Credit: Dr Greta Dargie
The work was lead from the University of Leeds, in collaboration with Aix Marseille University, France, Christian-Albrechts-Universitaet zu Kiel, Germany, L'Institut Supérieur Pédagogique Mbandaka, DRC, Space Intelligence, UK, Université de Kisangani, DRC, Université Marien Ngouabi, Congo, Université Pédagogique Nationale, DRC, University College London, UK, University of Bremen, Germany, University of Glasgow, UK, University of Leicester, UK, University of Nottingham, UK, University of South Florida, USA, University of St Andrews, UK.
For media enquiries, please contact Kersti Mitchell in the press office via k.mitchell@leeds.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/doc/interdisciplinary-research-areas:
Our environment allows interdisciplinary research to flourish, creating fresh ideas and approaches to problem solving.
In the following list are some of the areas where we are working across disciplines to tackle global challenges:

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/research-and-innovation-contacts:
Advancing knowledge and creating solutions to local, national and global challenges
The University's research and innovation senior leadership team is made up of the Deputy Vice-Chancellor: Research and Innovation, Pro-Deans for Research and Innovation and the Directors of the Research and Innovation Service (RIS).
Pro Vice-Chancellor: Research and Innovation
Phone Professor Nick Plant: +44 (0)113 343 7109
Email Professor Nick Plant via N.Plant@leeds.ac.uk
The University’s research and innovation strategy is led by Professor Nick Plant, Pro Vice-Chancellor: Research and Innovation.
He promotes partnerships in a number of key sectors, accelerates collaboration across academic disciplines and drives the recruitment of the very best academics.
Professor Nick Plant's profile
Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Cultures: Professor Matthew Treherne
Faculty of Biological Sciences: Professor Andrew Macdonald
Faculty of Business: Professor Yingqi Wei
Faculty of Social Sciences: Professor Jack Holland
Faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences: Professor Catherine Noakes
Faculty of Environment: Professor Ed Manley
Faculty of Medicine and Health: Professor Samuel Smith and Professor Lucy Ziegler
Members of the Research and Innovation management team at Leeds.
Executive Director for Business Engagement and Enterprise
Phone Dr Martin Stow: +44 (0)113 343 6978
Email Dr Martin Stow via M.W.Stow@leeds.ac.uk
Dr Martin Stow is responsible for implementing a culture of enterprise and industry collaboration across the University of Leeds.
Working closely with stakeholders across city and region, he is responsible for the co-creation and delivery of a university-wide strategy for engaging with businesses and entrepreneurs.
He has over 25 years’ experience working in senior worldwide research and development and strategic leadership roles within the healthcare and life science industries.
He has brought more than 25 products to market, most of which were launched globally.
Martin has experience working in both multinational businesses and start-up organisations, and understands the challenges faced by both.
He is a biochemist by training and holds a PhD from the University of York.
Academic Institutional Research Excellence Framework (REF) Lead
Email Professor Amanda Bretman via A.J.Bretman@leeds.ac.uk
Professor Amanda Bretman’s role is to promote and support high quality research across the University.
Leeds’ reputation as a world-leader relies on our ground-breaking research; innovative insights that push the boundaries of knowledge, which we translate to address global challenges.
Our vision is to recognise and support high-quality research that leads to academic and non-academic impact and innovation.
To deliver this we need to support colleagues to achieve ambitious research goals within our strategic framework, and identify how we value all aspects of our research activity.
Amanda is a Professor in Behavioural Ecology.
Her research uses the classic model species Drosophila fruit flies to investigate the biology of social and sexual interactions.
Her current projects seek to understand how individuals cope with environmental stress at a molecular level, such as how social stress alters ageing profiles and how male fertility particularly is sensitive to rising temperatures.
Director of Research Development
Phone Dr Rachel Curwen: +44 (0)113 343 6050
Email Dr Rachel Curwen via r.curwen@leeds.ac.uk
Dr Rachel Curwen works with senior stakeholders to develop and deliver a successful and sustainable research portfolio aligned to the University Strategy to generate impact and value to society and the economy.
The teams that she leads support the development of strategic research and innovation proposals to a wide range of funders in the UK and internationally, working closely with academic, industry, public sector and civic partners and developing global research collaborations.
Rachel and her teams act as the institutional lead for the relationship with key funders, including UKRI, enabling the effective exchange of insights between them and the University.
Alongside the other RIS Directors, she ensures strategic utilisation of HEIF, impact accelerator awards and other national and internal funds to address university priorities.
Working with the Governance and Compliance, Finance and Risk Management, Rachel is responsible for the creation of a trusted research environment across the University to ensure researchers and the University are supported to comply with export control regulations and the National Investment and Security Act.
Rachel has over 15 years of experience in university research management in a wide variety of roles.
Most recently, she was Deputy Director of Research, Innovation and Knowledge Exchange at the University of York, where she headed up the ‘Development Pillar’ of the Directorate and led an institution-wide initiative on building business engagement and income.
Her research background is in drug- and vaccine-target discovery for parasitic diseases using proteomics and mass spectrometry.
Director of Commercialisation
Phone Andy Duley: +44(0)113 343 0918
Email Andy Duley via A.J.M.Duley@leeds.ac.uk
Andy Duley is responsible for overseeing the University’s research and innovation contracts, intellectual property portfolio, and commercialising research through licences and spin-outs.
He has a background in marketing and has worked in both commercial and academic organisations.
Andy has over 20 years’ experience of developing collaborations between universities and industry and has worked with a wide range of investment partners.
He has established and managed spin-out companies and negotiated licenses across a broad range of technologies including therapeutics, drug delivery systems, data, engineering, automotive components, telecommunications, computer gaming and healthcare.
Director of Strategy for Research Impact
Email Sarah Hall via s.m.l.hall@leeds.ac.uk
Phone Sarah Hall: 07963 269992
Sarah provides strategic direction and oversight for the University on issues related to research impact, working to ensure the University’s research makes a difference in the wider world.
Working with other senior stakeholders, she helps to shape the direction of the University’s strategy, setting out priorities for research impact at Leeds, at regional, national and international scale.
Sarah acts as lead for the University’s relationship with Research England and is responsible for the monitoring and evaluation of institutional knowledge exchange and impact activities.
She heads a team with specialist expertise in research impact, knowledge exchange and regional, policy and public engagement.
Before joining the Higher Education sector, Sarah worked in print and television journalism and ran her own marketing and media consultancy.
She has 13 years’ experience in Higher Education, working across enterprise, knowledge exchange and impact, including the management of translational funding and delivery of research impact submissions to REF2014 and REF2021.
Nexus Director
Email Gareth Scargill via G.Scargill@leeds.ac.uk
Gareth leads our innovation community at Nexus.
He heads up our team of business engagement and collaboration experts to help more businesses connect to the University of Leeds and wider support networks, in order to help them innovate and grow.
Gareth has over 20 years’ experience in commercial, operations and business development roles in the leisure and innovation sectors, including with Oxford Innovation Space.
He is a University of Leeds graduate and holds an MBA from Henley Business School.
Director of the Horizons Institute
Phone Professor Stuart Taberner: +44 (0)113 343 2019
Email Professor Stuart Taberner via S.J.Taberner@leeds.ac.uk
The Horizons Institute provides a shared platform for tackling global challenges.
These challenges are too complex to address in a single academic discipline or sector.
As Director of the Horizons Institute, Stuart Taberner leads on promoting interdisciplinary research, bringing together colleagues in Science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM), Social Sciences and Arts and Humanities to address complex global challenges that require expertise and understanding from varied perspectives.
He is responsible, with Head of Interdisciplinary Research Samantha Aspinall, for encouraging and embedding collaboration across faculties, schools, themes and platforms.
He is keen to demonstrate and further develop the University’s interdisciplinary excellence, promoting both blue-skies and challenge-led research to address pressing societal problems such as climate change, anti-microbial resistance or mental health, as well as the new opportunities from Artificial Intelligence (AI), advances in design and technology, and rethinking social and economic models.
Stuart is both an active researcher in the fields of German Studies, Holocaust Studies and Memory Studies and an experienced research manager, most recently as Director of International and Interdisciplinary Research at UK Research and Innovation.
Dean of the Leeds Doctoral College
Email Professor Luke Windsor via w.l.windsor@leeds.ac.uk
Luke Windsor is Dean of the Leeds Doctoral College (since September 2020) and Professor of Music Psychology in the School of Music, which he joined in 1998.
As Dean, he works with academic and professional colleagues across the University, as well as in partnership with Leeds University Union and individual postgraduate researchers.
He chairs Graduate Board, which reports directly to the University Senate on academic matters related to postgraduate research, and leads on researcher development for both postgraduate and early career researchers.
The Doctoral College coordinates across the eight Faculty Graduate Schools and the pan-University services that support postgraduate research.
It also guides the development of the Leeds Doctorate, our shared vision for the future of postgraduate research at the University, which aims to facilitate a holistic and equitable approach to supporting and developing postgraduate researchers.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/business-partnerships-access-expertise/doc/work-with-academics:
We provide specialist academic advice and consultancy services to businesses, charities and organisations of all sizes.
Whether you’re looking for expert advice or want access to cutting-edge facilities, we have a range of opportunities to work with our academics on a short-term or long-term project.
We’ll translate the latest research in your sector into practical solutions for your organisation.
Email Glenn McCauley at G.McCauley@leeds.ac.uk for more information about working with our academics.
We’ll work with you to identify the right academic team for your needs and the best way for you to collaborate with us.
We can develop bespoke services to suit the requirements of individual businesses.
Working with Leeds University Business School has been refreshing.
In many ways, the multi-disciplinary team of business and research experts works like a traditional consultancy.
Here are a few examples of the ways we can work with your business.
Our academic consultants can bring the latest insights and thinking into your organisation to help you navigate complex challenges and stay ahead of industry and academic trends.
Whether you’re looking to implement new technologies, optimise processes, or develop strategic initiatives, our experts can provide tailored advice and expertise.
Many or our academics are highly recognised in their fields and can offer expert witness services.
They can assist in preparing reports, offering opinions, and delivering testimony.
Before embarking on a new project, it’s essential to assess its viability.
Our academic consultants can conduct feasibility studies that evaluate the potential success of your projects.
By providing an informed assessment, we help you make data-driven decisions and mitigate risks.
Innovation is key to staying competitive and our academic consultants can contribute to your product development process.
From concept development to final design, we provide expertise in various stages of product creation, including research and development, prototyping and testing.
Our Innovation hub, Nexus , connects businesses looking to innovate and grow to the academic expertise of the University.
Interpreting complex data is crucial for informed decision-making.
Whether you need to analyse large datasets, conduct statistical analyses, or interpret qualitative data, we can provide rigorous academic insights that can guide your strategic decisions.
Our expertise ensures that you gain actionable insights from your data.
We can provide access to advanced testing facilities and specialist laboratory equipment, as well academic support to help with a wide range of testing and analysis.
Whether you need to test materials, validate processes, or conduct experimental research, our facilities provide the technical resources required.
Our experts can also collaborate with you to design and execute testing protocols, ensuring that you achieve precise and reliable results.
The partially funded Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) scheme is a cost-effective way to work with our academics.
Through the scheme, a qualified graduate or postgraduate, supported by a team of experts from the University, can work on a strategically important project in your organisation for one to three years.
If you’re collaborating with us on research, we work with many funding bodies who can financially support the project.
These include UK Research and Innovation , Innovate UK Smart grants and a range of sector/technology-specific innovation funding programmes.
A team of academics from Leeds University Business School worked with leading finance provider, Novuna Consumer Finance to explore using Artificial Intelligence (AI) technology to make improved credit decisions for customers and safer business decisions.
Read more about our collaboration with Novuna Consumer Finance .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/business-partnerships-access-expertise/doc/knowledge-transfer-partnerships:
Funded partly by UKRI Innovate UK, Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTP) are a cost-effective way for organisations to tackle strategically important challenges, leveraging world-leading academic expertise and global talent.
Through the KTP scheme, a suitably qualified KTP Associate (graduate or postgraduate level) with relevant experience will be embedded in your organisation.
Supported by a team of leading academic experts from the University of Leeds, they will translate the latest academic research into practical, real-world solutions that will accelerate growth and commercial or non-commercial success.
You can also access the University’s specialist research facilities through the KTP scheme.
Through KTPs, we have partnered with over 150 organisations, including Asda , THIS and VET-AI , to innovate and increase their competitive edge.
For more information about collaborating with us on a KTP, email the KTP team at ktp@leeds.ac.uk .
To be eligible for a KTP, your organisation needs to be UK registered and of sufficient size (absorptive capacity) to support the project.
This typically means your organisation would have at least four full-time employees.
We have worked successfully on KTPs with both large companies and small to medium-sized enterprises (SMEs).
Not-for-profit organisations, social enterprises, charities and some public sector organisations can also apply for a KTP.
Please email the KTP team at ktp@leeds.ac.uk to discuss if your organisation is eligible for a KTP.
There are a few types of KTP:
KTPs can last between 12 months and 36 months, depending on the project needs.
Management KTPs typically last 24 months.
Accelerated Knowledge Transfer projects are funded for three to four months.
UKRI Innovate UK fund part of the cost of a KTP with a grant.
Your organisation will fund the remainder of the project cost as a cash contribution.
The percentage of the project cost you need to provide depends on the type and size of your organisation:
You may be eligible for Research and Development (R&D) tax relief on your contribution to the cost.
Find out more about KTP costs on the UKRI Innovate UK website.
When you collaborate with us on a KTP, we provide you with full lifecycle project development and project management support to get the most from our partnership.
The KTP scheme runs throughout the year with an application window opening every two to three months.
Email the KTP team at ktp@leeds.ac.uk to discuss collaborating with us on a KTP and find out more about the application process.
The UKRI Innovate UK website also has more information on applying for a KTP and deadlines for KTP applicants .
We have a strong track record of success with our KTPs.
We have:
Watch our KTP video to hear how our academics collaborated with Asda, LBBC Technologies and Southern Broadstock to solve key challenges and make a difference to their customers:
Video transcript: Knowledge Transfer Partnerships

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/business-partnerships-apprenticeships:
Find the right apprenticeship for your organisation with guidance from our dedicated team.
Apprenticeships are employment-based training programmes designed to develop the skills, knowledge and behaviours needed for the workplace.
We can work with your organisation to shape training around your business needs, so you can minimise skills shortages and access new talent with a significantly reduced recruitment cost.
The report highlighted a supportive culture and a well-resourced professional learning environment.
Video transcript: Alumni Perspectives - Leeds Executive Leadership Apprenticeship
"I had prior skills and experience and the course has augmented my technical and academic knowledge."
"I’ve gone on to have the career I wanted and have never looked back."
"It was reassuring to have good quality teaching and to know that we would all reach a certain standard by the time we finished."
"I’ve been able to apply so many things I’ve learned to my job – I’ve used it to look at new directions I can take work projects."
"The course content is really interesting and useful.
Everything is relevant to my job and the business, for example digital transformation, innovation, leadership skills and finance."
These are some of the partners we work with to deliver our higher and degree apprenticeships.
AdareSEC Apave TIV UK Ltd Astonish Bradford Teaching Hospital NHS Foundation Trust Leeds & York Partnership NHS Foundation Trust Dutton Facilities Management European Metal Recycling Masternaut Ordnance Survey Paragon Traffic Management Phoenix Dance Theatre South and East Leeds GP Group Springfield Healthcare Trenchless Group
In line with the rules set out by the Education Skills Funding Agency (ESFA) for apprenticeship funding we have published the University of Leeds rationale for subcontracting within apprenticeship programmes (PDF) .
In addition to delivering apprenticeship training, the University is also an End Point Assessment Organisation (EPAO).
For a number of integrated degree apprenticeships, we deliver both the training and the final assessment to confirm the apprentice’s occupational competency.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/business-partnerships-apprenticeships/doc/setting-apprenticeship:
Find out how the process works and what you need to do.
First, find an apprenticeship that meets the skills gaps and business needs of your organisation.
The University of Leeds offers higher and degree apprenticeships at different levels:
On some apprenticeship programmes, apprentices will be required to complete a qualification before being able to sit their final assessment.
If you are interested in apprenticeship opportunities for your staff that aren’t listed, please email the Apprenticeships team at apprenticeships@leeds.ac.uk to find out if we can help you.
You can also use the Institute of Apprenticeships website to find other apprenticeships and training providers.
There are a few ways to fund your apprenticeship.
The method you choose depends on the size of your annual wage bill.
All funding is managed by the Government via the Apprenticeship Service ​​​​​, which also arranges all apprenticeship training, managing your training providers and recruiting apprentices.
You will need to set up an Apprenticeship Service account before you get started.
A few important things to remember are:
If you would like further information on funding and incentives, please email the Apprenticeships team at apprenticeships@leeds.ac.uk .
You will need to find somebody to undertake the apprenticeship.
This could be:
The University will work with you to make sure:
Apprentices must meet the eligibility criteria in the Government’s Apprenticeship Funding Rules .
This includes individuals having a valid and eligible residency status.
Apprenticeships are available to anyone of any age who has finished compulsory education.
If they don’t have a GCSE Maths and English at Grade C/4 or above they will need to achieve Functional Skills during the apprenticeship.
See the Maths and English section on this page for details.
If you are unsure if an individual would be eligible after reading through the rules, please email the Apprenticeships team at apprenticeships@leeds.ac.uk .
Every apprenticeship is tailored around the individual.
Our team will complete an initial needs assessment with every potential apprentice to understand their previous experience and qualifications.
This allows us to determine a suitable starting point and make sure each apprentice receives training that is useful to them, enabling them to gain new skills and knowledge.
Those with significant experience may be able to obtain Recognised Prior Learning, which may reduce the duration and cost of the apprenticeship.
As the employer, you will need to sign paperwork, which the University will prepare for you.
You will also need to create an apprenticeship agreement with your apprentice.
This document will accompany the training plan and will detail the required ‘off the job’ hours and duration of the apprenticeship.
The Government have developed an apprenticeship agreement template for employers to use.
Your apprentice will learn in a research environment and be taught by academics who are specialists in their fields.
Our research strengths and teaching excellence are ranked among the best in the UK and our provision is rated as good by Ofsted.
All our apprenticeship programmes involve scheduled teaching sessions with academic staff (both on site and remote):
At least 20% of an apprentice’s total paid hours (6 hours per working week) should be spent on ‘off-the-job’ training.
The majority of this will be covered during the teaching sessions with the University, but it should also include activities in the workplace such as:
All off-the-job hours must be logged to create records of learning, progression and achievement.
You will have a named contact from the outset who will guide you through the enrolment process and can any questions or deal with any concerns that may arise throughout the programme.
Their role is to maintain service excellence.
Every apprentice will have a personal tutor who will organise meetings with them to discuss their academic progress.
They will listen to any issues the apprentice may face and signpost them to relevant services and support.
They may also complete the termly progress reviews.
Our academic staff are specialists within their fields and may have written books and research articles that your apprentice will be using as part of the apprenticeship.
Our teaching standards are internationally recognised and undergo thorough quality assurance processes.
The University has a network of support and pastoral care to help your apprentice make the most of their time with us and to assist with any difficulties they may have.
Our services will work together to ensure any problems are dealt with as quickly as possible.
If your apprentice has an impairment, physical or mental health condition or a specific learning difficulty, like dyslexia, it’s important they contact our Disability Services as soon as possible, ideally before they start their apprenticeship, so we can get the right support in place.
This is an impartial service within the University to assure the quality of your apprenticeship programme.
They may contact you for feedback.
This will help us to continuously improve our apprenticeship provision.
If you would like to explore other ways we can help you with your organisation’s recruitment needs, our Careers Centre can help you to advertise job vacancies to our students, arrange for your organisation to attend our careers fairs and more.
Our quality assurance policies and practices make sure your apprentice gains knowledge and skills useful in their chosen career and to your business.
Please email Apprenticeships team at apprenticeships@leeds.ac.uk to provide feedback at any time.
You and your apprentice may also be asked to provide feedback about the service you have received from us to the University of Leeds or to external bodies, for example, if we are subject to a formal inspection by Ofsted (the Office for Standards in Education, Children’s Services and Skills).

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/business-partnerships-apprenticeships/doc/apprenticeship-programmes:
Find out what apprenticeships we offer and read about some of the apprentices that have studied with us.
We provide a range of higher and degree apprenticeships at various levels:
Our Apprenticeships are rated ‘Good’ by Ofsted and our research strengths and teaching excellence are ranked among the best in the UK.
Email the Apprenticeships team at apprenticeships@leeds.ac.uk to discuss how our programmes can meet your business needs or to find out about developing a new apprenticeship.
We can provide guidance on the process, next steps and the support available.
BSc Computer Science (Digital & Technology Solutions) Apprenticeship (Level 6) (open to PwC employees) (not currently recruiting)
MSc Geotechnical Engineering Degree Apprenticeship (Level 7)
Watch alumni from the Executive Leadership Apprenticeship discuss their experiences on the programme and how it has benefitted their career development.
If you are interested in offering apprenticeship opportunities to your staff not listed on this page, please email the Apprenticeships team at apprenticeships@leeds.ac.uk to find out if we can develop and offer a new apprenticeship.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/training-development/doc/CPD-courses-businesses:
Develop your team’s specialist skills, enhance the productivity of your business and retain talent through continuing professional development (CPD) courses.
Our CPD courses and training programmes are informed by leading experts across a broad range of disciplines using the latest academic research.
To find out more about our CPD courses, email the Professional Development team at professionaldevelopment@leeds.ac.uk .
As well as sector-specific CPD courses for businesses, we also offer a series of short online courses , specially designed for professionals, that lead to formal CPD accreditation.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/business-partnerships/doc/recruit-students:
We can help you recruit students and graduates and run internships.
Whatever the size of your organisation, we can work with your business needs and available resources.
We have more than 40,000 students from more than 140 countries and a vast alumni network who can bring creativity and unique insights to benefit your company.
We’re one of the top five most targeted universities by graduate employers – High Fliers Research: The Graduate Market in 2024 (PDF)
To advertise your jobs, internships and volunteering opportunities to our students and alumni, register on MyCareer to post on our vacancies board for free.
It’s a quick and easy way for you to promote new roles and attract potential candidates.
We also provide a premium service for employers looking to make a bigger impact and build their brand awareness.
Using targeted emails, student newsletters and social media, we can maximise the number of students that you reach so you can find the right people for your organisation.
To find out more about advertising and our premium service, email the Employer team at employerteam@leeds.ac.uk .
All opportunities advertised on MyCareer need to comply with our vacancy advertising policy .
Every year, we host more than 1,000 local, national and international employers and organisations at virtual and on-campus events.
These are a great way to raise awareness of your organisation and showcase the range of opportunities you offer.
These include careers fairs, employer-led workshops, presentations, podcasts and insight days.
To find out more and to register for our events, email the Employer team at employerteam@leeds.ac.uk .
If you want to offer a paid year-long, part-time or summer internship, you can take advantage of our free recruitment service.
We’ll manage all advertising and promotion, shortlisting and interview scheduling, as well as helping you develop projects and job descriptions.
We can also provide advice around the logistics of recruiting interns and how to target the best students for your internships.
SMEs, charities and third sector organisations can also benefit from subsidies to support an internship.
Please email the Employer team at employerteam@leeds.ac.uk for more information about internships and placement years.
Our students are passionate about making a positive difference in their local community with thousands volunteering each year.
We work in partnership with third-sector organisations in Leeds and the surrounding area, connecting our students with volunteering opportunities for the benefit of everyone.
If you’re a UK-based charity, we can offer you additional support to advertise your volunteering opportunities to our students.
Whether you've already got a role in mind or you'd like to find out more about student volunteering, email the Volunteering team at volunteer@leeds.ac.uk .
Student volunteers bring energy and expertise to everything they do.
We learn from them as much as they learn from us and we couldn’t be more grateful!
As a start-up business, we were able to offer a range of projects and experiences.
Interns contributed to marketing, social media work, provided extra capacity on many projects and their energy was contagious.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/business-partnerships/doc/use-facilities:
We have a range of research, innovation and events facilities that bring together specialist equipment and staff and are available for researchers, organisations and businesses to access.
We offer a range of versatile venues on campus and in Leeds city centre for your events, and support from experienced events professionals.
Visit our Leeds Conferences and Events website .
HELIX is a learning innovation hub for students, staff and the local community which offers cutting-edge digital provision including immersive technologies, cutting-edge multimedia production studios and a physical makerspace.
Future Fashion Factory
Leeds Insitute of Textiles and Colour

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/business-partnerships/doc/support-small-businesses:
Small businesses play a vital role in driving innovation, investment, and jobs in the region.
The University can support small businesses along that growth journey; from initial start-ups to those ready to scale and take their business to the next level.
We offer specialist expertise, training, and access to talent and flexible workspaces in order to give your business all the support it needs to realise its ambitions.
Nexus is the University of Leeds’ innovation hub and it provides a community for innovators, entrepreneurs and small businesses who want to benefit from working with the University.
You can become a member of Nexus and access support from our expert team to help turn your big ideas into reality.
You can also choose to base your operations in our high-quality flexible office and lab space.
Hear from Paul Hallett, CEO of Vet-AI, one of the most exciting health-tech companies in the UK, about how Nexus has helped them grow rapidly, going from no employees to over 100:
Video transcript: The future of the vet industry – VET-AI
Receive in-depth training and mentoring to grow your business quickly with the Help to Grow: Management course .
Aimed at senior leaders in SMEs, the 12-week programme is 90% funded by the government.
It includes 50 hours of in-depth training and one-to-one business coaching.
Hear how the Help to Grow course helped Steve Brooke, Managing Director of Anglo Stainless Ltd, plan to expand their business operations and double their turnover:
Video transcript: Our Help to Grow programme helps Leeds stainless steel specialist target major expansion
The University of Leeds and Nexus are leading a collaborative programme funded by the West Yorkshire Combined Authority to support local entrepreneurs in building global businesses.
Apply for the Innovative Entrepreneurs programme – we welcome interest from anybody who has a groundbreaking idea.
Leeds University Business School supports an active network of small businesses through its Small Business Hub .
With access to training, talent and events, it helps you to engage with like-minded businesses and find opportunities for to learn and collaborate.
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) are ideal for small businesses.
A KTP allows businesses to access knowledge, technology or skills within the University to resolve a strategically important business issue.
KTP projects are jointly funded by a government grant and the business.
An SME (a business with less than 250 employees) would only need to contribute 33% of the total project cost.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/business-partnerships/doc/business-partners:
Collaboration between academia and industry can drive innovation, foster growth, and create a lasting impact on society.
We can work with your large organisation on a tailored programme of activity, which is co-created to address your organisation’s unique challenges and strategic objectives.
Email the Corporate Relationships team at corporates@leeds.ac.uk to discuss how we can partner with you to unlock new opportunities, drive innovation, and create value for your organisation.
Find out how we’ve collaborated with a number of large organisations and corporates to provide the knowledge, skills, and facilities that help them transform their businesses:
Following a series of collaborations between Asda and the University, we’ve joined forces to work on a range of research projects as part of a strategic data partnership .
Data scientists at the University are working with Asda to gain further understanding of customers’ habits and preferences to guide decisions such as future store locations and improve the efficiency of food supply chains.
The research projects will help to inform food strategies on a city and national level, including ongoing efforts to make healthier and more sustainable food choices more accessible.
Our partnership with Cisco , a global leader in digital communications technologies, drives mutual benefit and opens up unique opportunities for students and researchers at the University, with a focus on key sectors including health and healthcare, transport and education.
One of the key areas of collaboration is the use of Cisco Spaces – a new technology that helps monitor the use of space – to help us innovate our campus and University spaces.
We have strong collaborative links with partners across the NHS.
Our principal NHS partner is Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust, one of the largest teaching hospitals in the UK.
Find out about how we work with Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust to develop our students, enhance our research and find novel solutions that help tackle local and global health challenges.
We’re collaborating with KPMG on various learning, skills and thought leadership projects to drive value for businesses and entrepreneurs in our region.
Through our partnership with KPMG , we’re supporting entrepreneurs and scaling businesses in Nexus , connecting students and academics with real-world opportunities (including placements, internships, and mentoring), inspiring the next generation of family business leaders and encouraging confidence with numbers amongst school-aged children.
Our well-established partnership with Santander Universities enables students to receive business support and access fantastic networking opportunities.
Since 2007, Santander Universities, has donated more than £2 million to support student success and progression among those from under-represented groups at Leeds.
Through the partnership, students have benefitted from internships with small and medium-sized enterprises, access to mentors, help with business start-up costs, overseas volunteering and summer schools and invitations to Santander events.
We have a strong relationship with PwC and have been collaborating for over 20 years.
Our jointly-developed PwC degree apprenticeship programme allowed apprentices earn a BSc in Computer Science with the University while building practical skills through work placements with PwC.
The programme had noticeable benefits to teams across PwC and allowed them to build an pipeline of early talent technologists for their organisation.
Our partnership with Marks & Spencer (M&S) began in 2012 with the relocation of the M&S Archive to a purpose-built home on our campus.
More than a co-location, the partnership represents an opportunity for academic-industry collaboration that supports student opportunity, contributes to local cultural and civic life and generates impact.
By connecting the breadth of M&S’s operations—including food, textiles, sustainability and heritage—with the University’s world-leading research and teaching expertise, the partnership helps connect knowledge with real-world application.
Through the Knowledge Transfer Partnership scheme, we’ve helped over 100 companies solve key business challenges and make a difference to their customers.
Read how we helped Asda , THIS , Vet-AI and LBBC , to grow, innovate and stay competitive.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/directory-record/21728/a-knowledge-transfer-partnership-with-vet-ai:
A key player in a revolutionary wave of automated healthcare, Vet-AI operates through its consumer-facing platform Joii, a petcare app.
Using online symptom checkers and phone-based consultancies, the company aims to keep pets and their owners out of veterinary practices aiming to reduce both practitioner burn-out rates – an issue facing the industry –  and the financial burden on pet owners.
In a move towards using artificial intelligence in symptom diagnosis, Vet-AI initially chose to focus on a single common issue: the recognition of gait abnormalities amongst dogs.
Could the business create a tool that would triage an animal exhibiting lameness, establish the severity of that lameness and possibly prevent unnecessary visits to the veterinary practice?
The project team faced numerous challenges including the gathering and labelling of sufficient data to create an accurate model, and the programming of the model itself.
This project needed to demonstrate robust scientific methods before it could progress towards commercial application.
Through a Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) with the University of Leeds, the Vet-AI team collaborated with academic specialists including David Hogg, Professor in Artificial Intelligence and an internationally acclaimed expert in computer vision, Dr Derek Magee, an expert in computer vision and Dr Robert Cooper,  who initially joined as the KTP Associate and is now senior AI developer at Vet-AI.
David and Derek used their expertise in three-dimensional geometric modelling for tracking flexible structures to help identify healthy and abnormal gaits among dogs.
The Vet-AI team collaborated with charities including The Dog's Trust to amass sufficient footage for analysis.
They also employed canine biomechanics experts to help catalogue and label the data, describing the extent and severity of an animal's lameness.
Using this variety of complex data and under the University's supervision, Dr Robert Cooper created an algorithm using convolutional neural networks that would form the basis of the petcare app, Joii.
Collaborating with the University has enabled Vet-AI to create a working model that identifies and analyses problematic dog gaits with an impressive 70% accuracy to date, reducing the need for veterinary intervention.
As CEO Paul Hallett points out, ‘the same visual computing methodology can be applied to other common animal issues, including the recognition of skin lesions and pain experienced by cats’.
Vet-AI's partnership with the University means that findings have been tested rigorously in an academic environment and this rigour has helped Vet-AI attract over £12m investment since its inception.
Vet-AI looks forward to additional future collaborations with the University and following this ground-breaking project they have secured two more KTPs to further drive R&D and innovation in pet health.
Video transcript: University of Leeds KTP with Vet-AI .
Find out more about Knowledge Transfer Partnerships
To discuss how working with us on a KTP could help your business, email the Knowledge Transfer Partnership team via ktp@leeds.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/directory-record/22824/partnership-with-kpmg-aims-to-support-innovation-in-the-region:
The University of Leeds and KPMG have agreed a partnership that centres around innovation and entrepreneurship.
Working together, we will collaborate on new projects in the areas of learning, skills and thought leadership, with the aim of driving significant value for both organisations as well as businesses and entrepreneurs in the region.
At Leeds, we understand the key role that universities have as drivers of talent and innovation, and regional prosperity and economic growth are key drivers to the partnership.
Strengthening the bond between academia and industry remains a priority for regional prosperity.
The University of Leeds and its innovation hub – Nexus – supports regional economic growth by fostering an innovation-driven business network.
KPMG’s physical presence within the Nexus building demonstrates their commitment to supporting innovation-led founders and University spinout companies in the region.
They contribute to the wrap-around support offered by Nexus to ambitious businesses looking to grow and collaborate with the University.
KPMG’s partnership extends beyond Nexus to the wider university.
Ongoing and new projects focus on areas such as learning, skills development, and thought leadership.
This collaboration aims to empower students and academics by connecting them with real-world opportunities, including research and consultancy, placements and internships, and mentoring and coaching.
Since the partnership began, 10 experts from KPMG have delivered industry insight sessions to students across faculties, and more than 15 have acted as mentors.
In 2023, KPMG and the School of Mathematics, worked together to bring nearly 200 school-aged children onto the University of Leeds campus for National Numeracy Day which aims to build brighter futures through confidence with numbers.
The children travelled from schools in Leeds and Rochdale and spent the day working on numbers based activities, with the help of the Digital Makers team at the University of Leeds, and also got to experience the university campus.
Designed jointly by KPMG and the University of Leeds, the Family Business Leadership Academy is a programme that supports the next generation of family business leaders.
It combines practical, real-world KPMG experience with the latest academic theory, providing a powerful stepping stone for the leaders of the future.
KPMG collaborates closely with a number of the University’s leading schools, centres and institutes, including the Institute for Transport Studies and the Leeds Institute for Data Analytics.
These interdisciplinary partnerships and industry collaborations help us to drive research and develop knowledge that can make a real difference.
They underscore both organisation’s commitment to helping solve real world challenges.
Find out about more of our business partnerships .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/city-life/doc/things-leeds:
Get inspired by some of our suggestions of things to do in and around Leeds.
In Leeds you can enjoy eating world foods, whatever your budget.
Try something new or enjoy old favourites at restaurants, cafes and market stalls around the city.
Tasty street food is on offer at Kirkgate market and Trinity Leeds food court.
There's a huge selection of restaurants, cafes and pubs around the city.
For up-to-date listings check out Visit Leeds .
Food and drink events take place all through the year, including the annual Leeds Food and Drink Festival and Leeds Indie Food Festival, where businesses all over the city (from fine dining restaurants to coffee shops, independent cinemas and art galleries) collaborate to run innovative events.
The German Christmas market on Millennium Square is a festive favourite.
Of course, there are also lots of places to eat and drink on the University campus.
Leeds is a shopper’s paradise.
Victorian arcades with quirky individual shops sit alongside the global chain stores you’d expect in any big city.
The city centre is compact and easy to walk around.
Briggate is the main pedestrianised shopping street, where you’ll find many familiar high-street shops and the Trinity Leeds shopping mall , offering fashion, food and drink and a cinema.
Victoria Leeds shopping centre offers high-end and luxury brands in the stylish historic and modern surroundings of Victoria Quarter and Victoria Gate.
Leeds Corn Exchange , opened in 1863, is now home to independent boutiques and cafes.
You’ll find more independent retailers in the Grand Arcade.
Pop-up shops and events appear around the city throughout the year.
At Leeds you’ll have access to a thriving theatre and cinema scene.
The city is home to one of the largest producing theatres in the north, Leeds Playhouse .
The atmospheric Leeds Grand Theatre shows major touring productions, as well as acclaimed productions from Northern Ballet and award-winning Opera North .
The Carriageworks has an exciting mixture of drama, musicals, dance, pantomime, exhibitions and community events and City Varieties is a rare surviving example of a Victorian music hall.
As well as city centre multiplexes, you could visit smaller independent cinemas including the Hyde Park Picture House – located close to campus and one of the country’s last remaining gas-lit cinema.
The Leeds International Film Festival runs every November and is chance for film fans to enjoy premiere screenings, world cinema, theme nights and more.
Find out about theatre on the University campus.
Leeds City Museum takes you through the city's 800 year history with hands-on and audio-visual displays, exhibitions and interactive games.
The city is also home to the Royal Armouries which displays part of the national collection of arms and armour and holds many treasures including the world's only suit of elephant armour.
Kirkstall Abbey is a 900 year-old ruined monastery that sits in a park you can visit just a few miles from campus and the city centre.
Leeds City Art Gallery has a world-class collection of 20th century British art with works by Francis Bacon, Stanley Spencer and Barbara Hepworth.
The Henry Moore Institute owns a number of works by Henry Moore and has regular exhibitions from other sculptors.
Find out about galleries and collections on the University campus.
Leeds’ First Direct Arena and the O2 Academy attract world-famous acts.
The city also has a thriving underground network of smaller venues which showcase the best in new music, including Brudenell Social Club , Belgrave Music Hall , and The Wardrobe .
If classical music is more your taste, Leeds Town Hall regularly hosts some of the finest classical musicians in the world as part of the annual Leeds International Concert Season, as well as regular orchestra performances.
The Howard Assembly Room has a diverse calendar of jazz, world music, folk and classical concerts.
Find out about live music on the University campus .
Leeds has several major sports teams.
Headingley Carnegie Cricket Ground is just a 30-minute walk from campus and regularly hosts international Test matches and Twenty20 games.
Leeds United Football Club is one of the longest established teams in the country, and its stadium is a short bus ride from the city centre at Elland Road.
Leeds also has a rugby league team Leeds Rhinos , whose home ground is also in Headingley and a rugby union club Yorkshire Carnegie.
If you want to take part in sport yourself, Leeds has a wide range of sporting facilities and gyms including sports facilities run by Leeds City Council in local communities.
Find out about sports facilities on the University campus.
Leeds has plenty of green space that you can easily reach on foot, bike or public transport.
There are many parks dotted around the city, such as the beautiful Roundhay Park, or Woodhouse Moor right next to campus.
There are woodland walks, or the Leeds Liverpool canal, a haven for walkers and cyclists.
Outside of the city, some of the finest cycling, walking and climbing routes in the UK are right on our doorstep, including the beautiful Yorkshire Dales .
This location makes Leeds perfect for international competitions, such as the World Triathlon series , which brings a great atmosphere to the city centre.
It's not hard to find green space in Leeds.
Roundhay Park is one of my favourite places to get away from my books.
It's the perfect place to de-stress, walking around the lake with friends and having a picnic when the weather's good.
To find out more about what’s on offer in Leeds and Yorkshire visit the Welcome to Yorkshire website .
For more inspiration read 10 things you can’t miss in Leeds .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/city-life/doc/feeling-home-leeds:
Leeds is a welcoming city for international students and University staff and home to lots of different nationalities and communities.
Because it's quite a compact city, you can get around easily, but it's big enough to offer plenty of things to do in the city centre and the surrounding area .
There's a large student population and many different sport, religious, community and social groups, where you can meet new people.
We're sure you'll soon be calling Leeds home.
I've loved living in Leeds.
It's such an easy place to get around, everything is walkable, the public transportation is really good, and it's also a very safe city.
Our Link to Leeds student ambassadors can help answer your questions about Leeds.
As current international students at the University, they are able to share their experiences of living and studying here.
As a multicultural city, Leeds is home to people of many faiths.
You'll find places of worship across the city as well as other people who share your beliefs.
The University Chaplaincy has representatives from different faiths, who can help you find a local place to worship.
They also welcome everyone for a friendly chat, whether you follow a religion or not.
Leeds University Union also offers a number of faith societies , where you can meet other people of the same faith.
Finding a place of worship was important to me, for spiritual and social reasons.
But I didn't need to worry.
There are lots of different faith groups around the city and on campus.
There's accommodation to suit all lifestyles and budgets – from city centre apartments to shared houses and family homes.
If you're moving from another country to work at the University, check out Relocate Leeds .
If you're coming to Leeds as a student, there is University of Leeds accommodation and high quality private accommodation.
Whether you prefer living on campus, in the heart of the city or in a local, student-friendly neighbourhood, there will be a great place for you.
Get free, independent advice from:
Finding international food and ingredients in Leeds is easy.
There are several specialist Asian and other international supermarkets in the city centre and most regular supermarkets sell world food.
You'll also find shops and restaurants selling kosher and halal food.
Historic Kirkgate market in the city centre is one of the largest covered markets in Europe.
It sells fresh vegetables, fruit, spices and food from all over the world.
Famous British chain store Marks & Spencer began here in 1884, as a market stall where everything cost one penny!

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/around-campus/doc/music-theatre-festivals:
Find out about our music and theatre venues and the festivals that are held on the University of Leeds campus.
The University has a number of venues on campus hosting live music from a range of genres.
Home to instrumental concerts, the Clothworkers Centenary Concert Hall is one venue where you can enjoy performances by the School of Music and visiting performers.
It provides a programme of free Friday lunchtime recitals and occasional 'rush hour' and Sunday afternoon concerts.
The University of Leeds International Concert Series covers almost every musical genre, from period instrument performances to the avant-garde including European art music, world and popular music, contemporary music and jazz.
The University is a principal partner in this prestigious international event, which takes place in the city every three years.
The University campus has been a venue since the first competition in 1963, and today the University’s Great Hall provides the venue for the second and semi-final stages of the competition.
Designed by Alfred Waterhouse and part of the Yorkshire College, which pre-dated the University, the Great Hall is one of the finest buildings on the campus.
Previous prize winners across five decades have come from 28 countries.
The competition has helped start the careers of some of the world’s greatest pianists: artists such as Murray Perahia, Radu Lupu and Dimitri Alexeev launched their careers by taking first prize at 'the Leeds'.
Find out more on the Leeds International Piano Competition's website .
Since the late 1960s the Refectory has hosted some of the most important acts around, including Led Zeppelin, Bob Marley and the Rolling Stones.
Perhaps one of the most famous live recordings ever made, The Who Live at Leeds, was recorded in the Refectory.
More recently, it has played host to the likes of Simian Mobile Disco, Muse and Arctic Monkeys.
The union has its own nightclub, Stylus , and smaller venues playing host to gigs and regular club nights.
There are a number of theatres on campus which hold regular live performances.
stage@leeds is our public licensed theatre complex, dedicated to artist development and supporting new work.
The complex, which can be found in our performance and cultural industries building, includes:
Visit the stage@leeds website to see what’s on.
The Workshop Theatre is home to Theatre Studies in the School of English.
It's an intimate space that provides opportunities for all the different student communities to work with each other and study theatre.
The University hosts a number of free events for members of the public each year.
Following are the details of two events held on campus.
Every October, Leeds plays host to an evening of offbeat and creative cultural events including magical light installations and storytelling, much of it held at the University.
Learn more about Light Night.
Ever been curious about what studies and research are taking place at the University of Leeds?
Every year, Be Curious allows members of the public to visit the University to learn about our research with free, interactive and exciting activities.
Previous events have included guided tours of campus, theatre shows and activities for children.
Learn more about Be Curious .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/around-campus/doc/galleries-museums:
Find out about the galleries and museums on the University of Leeds campus.
We have a wide range of artwork and a number of galleries on campus.
Phone: +44 (0)113 343 9803
We have one of the finest collections of rare books and manuscripts in the world in our Special Collections, housed in the Brotherton Library.
Some of these are on display as part of The Treasures of the Brotherton Gallery, part of the Leeds University Library Galleries , situated beneath the Parkinson tower.
The gallery features permanent and temporary displays along with workshops and talks to bring the archives to life.
Phone: +44 (0)113 343 2778
The Stanley & Audrey Burton Gallery, part of the Leeds University Library Galleries, features innovative contemporary exhibitions and displays treasures from the University’s art collection and the library's Special Collections .
It also offers a changing programme of exhibitions, as well as a space for private study, research and teaching.
The Friends of University Art and Music (Leeds) raise funds to buy further works for our art collection, which now runs to more than 3,000 items.
The organisation supports the Stanley & Audrey Burton Gallery and the International Concert Series , and hosts a regular programme of events.
For more information about what’s on across the University, see our University events calendar .
The University has a number of museums and archives on campus that are open to visitors.
Phone: +44 (0)208 718 2800
The M&S Company Archive has more than 70,000 items dating back from the earliest days of the business to the present day.
Along with the collection, the Michael Marks Building hosts the Marks in Time exhibition which celebrates the role M&S has played in British cultural history since it first opened a stall at Leeds Kirkgate Market in 1884.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/around-campus/doc/eating-drinking:
We will make sure you are well fed during your time at Leeds, whether you are working, studying or just visiting us.
We have a fantastic variety of places to eat, thanks to Leeds University Union and Great Food at Leeds .
There are many places for you to try on campus.
Opening hours quoted are during term time.
For more information contact the venue.
Here are some of our favourites.
As well as being a major gig venue in the evenings, the Refectory is the main catering outlet on campus, offering a variety of hot and cold food.
We cater for a range of dietary requirements and our award-winning head chef sources local ingredients as much as possible.
Hugo is our camionette café which sells fresh baguettes, coffee and patisseries.
This little van is usually to be found opposite Old Bar and is fantastic when you are looking for a sophisticated bite to eat between meetings or lectures.
Take in the opulent surroundings of the renowned Parkinson Court while you enjoy your lunch at the Parkinson Court Caf é .
Find all our cafés on campus on the interactive map, or download the map as a PDF.
Leeds University Union also has some wonderful places to eat and drink, see the following list for some inspiration.
Quirky café, Common Ground , is a great place to meet friends or colleagues, study over coffee and cake or take a break from the office.
Our on-campus bar, the Old Bar is a great place to unwind after a busy day at work or studying and kick start the weekend.
They also offer a high-quality and varied menu, suitable for most dietary requirements, including an all day breakfast.
If you’re looking to host an event at the University that requires fine dining, we can help you.
You can find out more about the Great Food at Leeds catering services .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/around-campus/doc/green-spaces:
If you want to get out into the great outdoors there are a number of public green spaces on campus for everyone to enjoy.
A highlight is our sustainable garden with fresh food intended to be picked.
Instructions of what to pick and how are available around the garden, which can be found next to the Roger Stevens Building.
Anyone can join in with regular gardening sessions - you can find details on our sustainability site .
Other green spaces on campus include:
Leeds has 62 community parks, with facilities including playgrounds and sports pitches.
The nearest to the University is Woodhouse Moor, a 26 hectare park just on the edge of campus.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/around-campus/doc/conference-facilities:
Our campus is an expansive and diverse destination for conferences, meetings and events, located in Leeds’ vibrant city centre.
Our award-winning venues offer a wide selection of versatile event spaces to choose from both on campus and in the city centre at Cloth Hall Court .
With a mixture of Gothic revival, Art Deco and postmodern architecture, our facilities are ideal for both corporate and private events for up to 2,000 guests.
We cater for all your event planning and delivery needs.
Our offer includes:
When booking the University of Leeds for your conferences, meetings and events, you will be supported every step of the way by a dedicated team of passionate events professionals, with decades of industry experience.
We have specialists in both sales and operations, so our service is tailored to ensure that you get the best from the wealth of options we have available.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/around-campus/doc/information-disabled-visitors:
We aim to make our campus as accessible as possible.
Here you can find useful information for visiting campus.
We also have a page for disabled students and a page for disabled staff .
We list all accessible building entrances on our interactive campus map .
You can find these by clicking on the Facilities tab at the bottom of the map and choosing Disabled Building Access .
The majority of Central Teaching Space Rooms are fitted with Hard of Hearing systems using either Infrared Transmitters or induction loop systems.
For more detailed information about building accessibility visit our entry on AccessAble .
This programme was compiled by trained surveyors and includes text descriptions and images for a range of accessibility issues for every building on campus.
We have an accessible route through campus marked on our interactive campus map .
To view it, click on the Walks/Routes tab at the bottom of the map.
This accessible route provides a step-free path across campus.
The route begins at the main entrance of the University near the Parkinson steps, and ends at the Worsley building.
It's marked by signs and involves the use of lifts at some points.
The route is open during working hours at the University.
You can also download our campus map (PDF) and download a large print version of the map (PDF) .
We list all of our disabled toilets on our interactive campus map .
Click on the Facilities tab at the bottom of the map and then choose Disabled Toilets .
If you’re visiting campus with a guide dog, here are the locations of our dog spending facilities:
If you’re coming to campus to visit our museums and galleries, we have detailed accessibility information:
If you have any feedback or advice on how we can make our campus more accessible and inclusive, please email the Estates Office via esoffice@leeds.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/donate:
Make a donation today.
With your support, we can continue to use our expertise in research and education to help shape a better world.
We’re delighted that you’re considering joining our worldwide community of donors.
Whether you choose to make a single donation or give regularly, your gift matters to us.
With your support, we can continue to use our expertise in research and education to tackle inequalities, drive social change and make the world a better place for future generations.
If you'd like to speak to us about your donation, please email the Give to Leeds team at give@leeds.ac.uk .
From developing groundbreaking research to helping exceptional students get on the path to a university education – your gift can make a difference in so many ways.
Thanks to our charitable status, your gift to Leeds can be enhanced through tax-efficient giving, Gift Aid and more.
Find out how you can make your gift go further.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/donate/doc/donate-now:
We’re delighted that you’re considering joining our worldwide community of donors.
Donate now

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/donate/doc/why-your-gift-matters:
Your gift can make a difference in so many ways.
By giving to Leeds, you could help us to:
You can rest assured that one hundred percent of your donation will support the University of Leeds.
Read more about how your gift support students .
Every single donation matters, however large or small.
Since the University was established in 1904, the generosity of our donors has helped us to fund vital research and award scholarships to exceptional individuals who may not otherwise have the chance of a university education.
When you give to Leeds, you join a worldwide community of donors who are working with us to tackle inequalities, generate new knowledge and make a positive impact on society.
With your support, we can continue to use our expertise in research and education to help shape a better future for humanity.
Watch Emilie Barron (Social Work 2004) talk about the difference donor support has made to her life - and to that of her four-year-old son Ronnie:
Video transcript: Emilie Barron talks about the impact of receiving a Leeds scholarship .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/donate/doc/make-gift-go-further:
Find out how to make your gift to Leeds go further through tax-efficient giving.
Learn about the benefits of Gift Aid or how to make a tax deductible donation from outside the UK.
The University is an ‘exempt charity’ under Schedule 3 of the Charities Act 2011, which means your gift to Leeds could be enhanced through tax-efficient giving.
The University doesn’t have a registered number issued by the Charities Commission but is in law a charity by Royal Charter, granted in 1904.
UK taxpayers can make their donations to Leeds go further with Gift Aid which can increase the value of your gift by 25% at no extra cost to you.
Gift Aid is a government scheme that allows charities like Leeds to claim back the basic rate tax that donors have already paid on the money they donate.
By claiming Gift Aid, for every pound that you donate, we receive an extra 25p from HM Revenue and Customs.
It’s a great way to make your gift go further – and only takes a minute to set up.
If you pay tax above the basic rate, you can claim the difference between the rate you pay and basic rate on your donation.
When you give shares, you qualify for tax relief on both income and capital gains tax.
Share gifts qualify for tax relief equal to the market value of the shares on the day the gift is made, including associated costs such as broker fees.
The Government website has further information on UK tax law in relation to charitable donations and tax relief on charity donations .
If you’re in the US, you can give a gift to the North American Foundation for the University of Leeds (NAFUL), which is a non-profit 501(c)(3) organisation.
If you're a US tax payer, you can make tax deductible donations to the full extent allowable by law.
The Foundation seeks to secure the support of both individuals and private foundations in the pursuit of furthering education.
The Foundation is operated exclusively for charitable and educational purposes and is an independent organization that was incorporated in 1989.
It is actively involved in building links with alumni as well as supporting and promoting the University of Leeds in the United States.
You can donate online via our giving platform .
Alternatively, you can write a check, making it payable to 'North American Foundation for the University of Leeds', and post it to:
North American Foundation for the University of Leeds 1350 Avenue of the Americas Floor 2 Suite 266 New York, NY 10019
To make a wire transfer to NAFUL, please contact us and we’ll provide you with the details of the Foundation's bank account.
Got a question about giving from the US?
Email NAFUL at naful@leeds.ac.uk .
The University of Leeds is listed as a prescribed University under section VIII of the Canadian income tax regulations.
If you're Canadian, this means you can claim a non-refundable tax credit when you make a gift to Leeds.
The University is recognised as a charitable body by many European states.
Gifts from donors living in these states can be made through Transnational Giving Europe , a partnership of Foundations and Associations which facilitates tax-efficient cross-border giving.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/donate/doc/gift-support-students:
Find out how, when you give to Leeds, you support a wide range of people from different backgrounds to benefit from higher education.
Some students experience barriers, which mean they need help to take advantage of every opportunity and put them on a level playing field with their peers.
Your generosity enriches a wide range of support offered by the University, starting before they arrive at Leeds, through to the day they leave.
The students who will benefit are from low-income households, where families struggle to afford to support a student studying away from home.
They may also:
Make a single or regular donation via our Giving platform
Join the hundreds of alumni volunteers who support the next generation of Leeds graduates to succeed every year.
By giving to Leeds, you support students like these through scholarships and a wide range of student support initiatives.
Scholarships provide financial security to students so that they can realise their full potential.
Scholarships are granted to students with the greatest need based on eligibility criteria, and provide £3,000 a year to cover living and other associated costs of being at University.
Students tell us that scholarships help them pay for essentials like rent, food and bills, but also provide them with a sense of certainty and financial freedom.
This allows them to get more involved in University life, for example through:
These activities enrich their time at Leeds and provide the skills, confidence and experience that help with graduate job applications and further academic study.
Our students also tell us that knowing that someone, like you, believes in them and their abilities is life-changing.
It gives them a sense of wellbeing and confidence that frames their university experience and drives them to succeed.
81% of scholarship recipients received a 2:1 or higher in 2021, despite often starting university with lower entry grades than their peers.
Your support has provided me with an incredible level of confidence – and for this I am forever indebted to you.
The fact that alumni believed in me enough to back me financially has been life changing.
Your gift will also enable us to support students as they transition into university, progress through their studies and go onto great things beyond graduation.
Much of this is channelled through the Plus Programme, which supports around 4,500 students each year.
The support is tailored to their specific needs and includes:
Opportunities at university are so important.
Part of our role is helping students to take advantage of them without finance being a barrier.
It’s about levelling the playing field – helping students to know they are as deserving as any other student.
The programme constantly adapts to meet the needs of our diverse student community; their work informed by a student-led steering group.
Positive feedback from students confirms the programme’s value:
The team really helped me fit in and feel part of Leeds.
It made me feel that I’m surrounded by people who can relate to where I’ve come from to get here.
Find out how a scholarship helped open doors for Fabiha at Leeds.
Find out how supporters help students like Emilie to secure the future they've always dreamed of.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/leaving-a-gift-in-your-will:
“I wanted to leave a legacy to Leeds especially if I can help make life better for students in generations to come.”
Making a will is one of the most important things you will ever do.
Your gift could make a huge difference to the lives of our students or push forward research in an area close to your heart.
Talk through your legacy wishes with our team.
Explore different ways to give in your will.
An exclusive community for those who have pledged.
How to give if you’re a US citizen.
How to inform us of a pledge or bequest.
Why leaving us a legacy can be tax efficient.
For more information or a confidential discussion about leaving a legacy to Leeds, please email Jessica Mifsud-Bonnici, Senior Development Officer (Legacies), at give@leeds.ac.uk .
You can also contact us by post: Advancement Team, University of Leeds, Leeds, LS2 9JT.
Read about why our supporters have chosen to leave a gift to Leeds in their will.
“We decided we wanted to help students less fortunate than ourselves.”
“I hope to support young people who, in turn, by virtue of their education, will be in a position to support others.”
“I wanted to leave a legacy to Leeds, especially if I can help make life better for students in generations to come.”
“I read about the Brotherton Circle and the legacies which have been left to the University in the past and thought ‘what a brilliant idea’.”
“I want to do all I can to encourage future medics to study at Leeds.”
“We wanted our wealth to go the place it could do the most good, and we wanted to leave something behind after we’re gone that we could feel proud of.”

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/leaving-a-gift-in-your-will/doc/how-we-can-help:
We always recommend that you visit your solicitor or other professional advisor to draw up or make changes to your will.
However, we are happy for you to get in touch with any questions you may have to ensure your legacy fulfils your wishes.
This is especially true if you have in mind a specific purpose or form of commemoration for your gift, such as funding and naming a scholarship in honour of someone important to you.
We want to ensure that we fully understand what you would like to achieve through your legacy.
We welcome the opportunity to discuss particular needs and priorities within the University which could benefit from your support.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/leaving-a-gift-in-your-will/doc/which-type-of-legacy:
Because everyone’s circumstances are different, we recommend you seek professional advice about which type of legacy to gift to the University of Leeds.
If you’d like to give a specific sum of money, choose a pecuniary legacy.
Because inflation can erode its value over time, it’s good practice to review your will regularly.
Better yet, specify a percentage of your estate rather than a fixed sum, or index-link your legacy.
You can give the remainder of your estate (or a percentage of the remainder) after all pecuniary legacies, debts and other expenses have been paid.
This is a residuary legacy and its main advantage is that inflation does not erode its value.
Your family or friends can be provided for while also benefiting the University when you gift a reversionary legacy.
You’ll leave assets to a chosen beneficiary to enjoy during their lifetime, with the whole, or a proportion, passing to the University at their death.
When you choose a conditional legacy, you would name the University as a beneficiary should any, or all of, your other named beneficiaries die before you.
You can bequeath specific assets such as property, valuables, works of art or stocks and shares.
The University may sell non-financial gifts and use the proceeds in keeping with your wishes.
You can nominate the University of Leeds as a whole or joint beneficiary of a pension fund or life insurance policy.
If you’re thinking about supporting the University in this way, we recommend that you seek professional advice.
See our suggested wording for pecuniary and residuary legacies for general purposes.
If you’d like suggested wording for a legacy for a specific purpose, email Jessica Mifsud-Bonnici, Senior Development Officer (Legacies), at give@leeds.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/leaving-a-gift-in-your-will/doc/brotherton-circle:
The Brotherton Circle recognises the special commitment made by those who have pledged a gift to the University in their will.
It’s named after one of the University’s most significant benefactors, Lord Brotherton of Wakefield.
We invite everyone who has included a gift to Leeds in their will to join the Brotherton Circle.
As a member, you’ll receive invitations to special events, an exclusive Brotherton Circle lapel pin, and an annual newsletter showing how legacy gifts are benefiting the University.
In August 2024, members of the Brotherton Circle returned to campus for guided tours of the Leeds Institute of Textiles and Colour.
They heard about our long history in textiles and visited labs working at the cutting edge of the field.
Watch a slideshow of images from this memorable day.
Lord Brotherton’s remarkable philanthropy helped to create one of the UK’s great academic libraries at the University of Leeds, and means we can continue to expand our collections, even today.
As well as funding the building of the Brotherton Library during his lifetime, Lord Brotherton bequeathed his own magnificent collection of rare books and manuscripts to the University in his will, providing the basis for the Brotherton Collection’s English literary section .
Lord Brotherton and his family also made bequests to create an endowment fund to support the growth of the Brotherton Collection.
Thanks to their foresight and generosity, the Collection has more than doubled in size and continues to grow, and our Treasures of the Brotherton Gallery showcases unique items from this remarkable legacy.
If you would like to join the Brotherton Circle, please email Jessica Mifsud-Bonnici, Senior Development Officer (Legacies), at give@leeds.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/leaving-a-gift-in-your-will/doc/leaving-bequest-in-US:
The University of Leeds welcomes bequests of any size.
Including a gift in your will is easy to do and an opportunity to help shape the future of a great University.
You can make a bequest to the University of Leeds directly, or through the North American Foundation for the University of Leeds.
Making a bequest via either of these channels may reduce your estate tax liability, if your estate will be subject to US estate tax.
Please note: this information does not constitute legal or tax advice.
Always seek advice from your legal and tax advisors regarding your estate and tax liabilities.
Please see our suggested wording for your bequest to the University of Leeds or the North American Foundation for the University of Leeds.
The University of Leeds is an ‘exempt charity’ under Schedule 3 of the Charities Act 2011.
It does not have a registered number issued by the UK Charity Commission but is in law a charity by Royal Charter, granted in 1904.
The University’s reference number with the charity division of HM Revenue and Customs is X6861.
The North American Foundation for the University of Leeds (NAFUL), is an organisation exempt from taxes under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code.
Jessica Mifsud-Bonnici, Senior Development Officer (Legacies), will be pleased to discuss any wishes you have for your bequest, and provide information about areas of the University that are of particular interest to you.
Email Jessica at give@leeds.ac.uk
If you require information about setting up a Charitable Remainder Trust or other planned giving vehicle, please contact Jessica in the first instance.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/leaving-a-gift-in-your-will/doc/information-solicitors-executors:
Information for solicitors and executors administering a will or enquiring on behalf of a client who wants to leave a gift to the University in their will.
The University should be referred to as ‘University of Leeds’.
Our address is: Woodhouse Lane, Leeds, UK, LS2 9JT.
It does not have a registered number issued by the Charities Commission but is in law a charity by Royal Charter, granted in 1904.
Please see suggested wording for pecuniary and residuary legacies for more details.
Jessica Mifsud-Bonnici, Senior Development Officer (Legacies), is authorised to give a proper receipt and discharge to executors.
Email Jessica Mifsud-Bonnici at j.m.d.mifsud-bonnici@leeds.ac.uk .
Jessica can also help with legacies for a specific faculty, school or department, or for the University’s libraries, Special Collections or galleries.
We would be grateful if you could advise us quickly that the University is a beneficiary of a will.
We’ll then amend our records promptly to prevent future mailings being sent to the deceased.
Please provide the following:
Please make cheques payable to ‘University of Leeds’ and send to:
Jessica Mifsud-Bonnici, Senior Development Officer (Legacies), Advancement Team, University of Leeds, Leeds, UK, LS2 9JT.
To pay by bank transfer or other means, please email Jessica Mifsud-Bonnici at j.m.d.mifsud-bonnici@leeds.ac.uk .
We prefer to receive the sale proceeds of property or shares gifted to the University.
However, each individual case is different so before taking action to either transfer or sell the property or shares, please email Jessica Mifsud-Bonnici at j.m.d.mifsud-bonnici@leeds.ac.uk .
To find out about giving items to the University’s libraries, galleries or Special Collections please contact Jessica.
Read the Library’s gifts and deposits policy .
Please note that we do not usually collect items but we may be able to arrange to do so in exceptional circumstances.
Because the University has charitable status, gifts are deducted from the estate before inheritance tax is calculated.
The University is also usually exempt from capital gains tax, and we can reclaim income tax that has been deducted at source.
Tax is a complex area, so to avoid the estate paying more tax than necessary, please consult a professional adviser.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/leaving-a-gift-in-your-will/doc/charitable-status-tax-benefits-uk:
Our charitable status means that a gift to the University in your will would be tax exempt.
This could reduce the amount of Inheritance Tax payable if the net value of your estate is above the threshold (currently £325,000).
Nominating the University as a beneficiary of your pension fund could also provide significant tax benefits.
The University does not have a registered number issued by the Charities Commission but is in law a charity by Royal Charter, granted in 1904.
Did you know, if you leave 10% or more of your estate to charity, any Inheritance Tax due may be paid at a reduced rate of 36% instead of 40%?
Find out how Inheritance Tax works .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/philanthropic-partnerships:
Transforming the lives of students and staff and advancing research at Leeds.
Foundations have been crucial in ensuring young people who could benefit from a university education at Leeds have the chance to do so.
Companies of all sizes, from multi-nationals to SMEs, are helping us to support the community, develop talent and expand our research.
If you are interested in talking to us about how we might work together, please email Rebecca Morgan at  foundations@leeds.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/philanthropic-partnerships/doc/trusts-foundations:
Many philanthropic organisations have left their mark on the University of Leeds over the last 100 years, transforming the lives of students and advancing the impact of the University through contributions to new buildings, fellowships, scholarships, vital research and our cultural treasures.
Support from trusts and foundations has been crucial in ensuring young people who could benefit from a university education at Leeds have the chance to do so, through direct financial support or by opening doors.
Trust donors have also supported generations of scholars to pursue their studies at Leeds, whilst grant funding has played a key role in allowing us to share the cultural treasures held in our Special Collections and galleries, and around our campus.
Read about how we work with philanthropic trusts and foundations to develop talent, fund world-leading research and benefit the wider community:
In addition to generous support for scholarships, the Liz and Terry Bramall Foundation support the ‘Reach for Excellence’ programme .
Reach for Excellence (RfE) is the flagship widening participation scheme at the University of Leeds.
The programme has a successful track record in supporting and stretching students with the potential to gain a place at a research-intensive university, but who may not have considered it (or who may perceive barriers to entry).
RfE provides support which extends beyond admissions, into Higher Education and professional life.
The Laidlaw Undergraduate Research and Leadership programme operates at more than a dozen leading universities worldwide through the support of the Laidlaw Foundation , established by alumnus Irvine Laidlaw (Economics, 1963).
It enables talented students to gain the skills and experience to become active global citizens and ethical leaders.
The Allan and Nesta Ferguson Charitable Trust has funded international students from around the world to undertake a Masters degree, furthering their careers and benefiting their home countries with the skills and relationships they develop studying at Leeds.
The Wolfson Foundation and Garfield Weston Foundation have invested in cutting edge research facilities in our new Bragg Building.
The Wolfson Imaging Facility will allow biologists and physicists to work together, developing interdisciplinary research programmes using equipment that allows us to image materials in unprecedented detail in real-time.
Support from the Garfield Weston Foundation is ensuring our surgical robotics research is equipped to enable earlier diagnosis, wider screening and more effective treatment for life-threatening diseases such as cancer.
Clothworkers Court, the red-brick courtyard in the heart of campus, and the University’s magnificent Clothworkers’ Centenary Concert Hall, recall donations made by the Worshipful Company of Clothworkers, a partnership which has continued since Victorian times.
In 2012, the Clothworkers’ Company helped to establish the Clothworkers’ Centre for Textile Materials Innovation for Healthcare (CCTMIH) at the University of Leeds, with a £1.75 million anchor donation.
The Centre works to develop enabling technologies based on advances in textile science and engineering.
From bioactive wound dressings to implantable devices aiding the regeneration of bone or skin – the application of textiles in healthcare is a rapidly developing field.
In 2021, a significant investment from the Clothworkers' Company helped the University to launch the Leeds Institute of Textiles and Colour (LITAC) .
The new institute will tackle global challenges – such as those created by fast fashion, and the need for advanced materials, manufacturing processes and sustainable products – by partnering with industry to apply the world-class research expertise found across a wide range of disciplines at the University.
Professor Francesco Del Galdo leads a national programme for research into the inflammatory disease, scleroderma.
Funding from the Kennedy Trust for Rheumatology Research has helped to fast-track Leeds’ position as a world-leader in rheumatology treatment and research, enabling new work to understand the causes of scleroderma – and search for the drugs which might prevent it.
The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation has funded work across the University, including the CACTUS project.
Led by Professor Barbara Evans, this research covers the global assessment of fecal sludge management options in cities across the global south, providing a new approach to assessing and reporting the cost of urban sanitation services.
The National Lottery Heritage Fund has played a significant role in opening our unique collections, helping build our Treasures of the Brotherton Gallery and Marks and Spencer Archive , and funding work to share the multi-media archives of the Survey of English Dialects in our archive of vernacular culture in partnership with regional museums.
Our Restoring Hardknott Forest project is a once-in-a-generation opportunity to transform one of the largest conifer plantations in the UK’s Lake District National Park into wild native woodland.
Together with the United Bank of Carbon , Copeland Community Foundation and The North Face Explore Fund (with the European Outdoor Conservation Association ), we are engaging local people and school children to create 630 hectares of native woodland, protect over 250,000 native trees and remove and store 25,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide.
Funding from the Education Endowment Foundation has seen Leeds researchers deliver two trials looking at how joined-up approaches to health care and education can improve academic attainment for young children – leading to a national roll out of the ‘Glasses in Classes’ programme by the Department of Education.
The Waterloo Foundation has funded work looking at how integrating exercise breaks into classroom work can improve the concentration and memory of primary school children.
If you are interested in talking to us about how we might work together, please email Rebecca Morgan at foundations@leeds.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/philanthropic-partnerships/doc/corporate-partnerships:
Companies of all sizes, from multi-nationals to SMEs, are helping to support the University of Leeds.
Such gifts can:
At Leeds, we understand that corporate giving reflects a company’s interests and values and is integral to its corporate social responsibility priorities.
Support can be part of broader partnership activities between a company and the University, reflecting a common interest in developing talent and working together for the benefit of the wider community.
Read about how our corporate partners help us to support the community, develop talent and expand our research.
The Asda Foundation is working in partnership with the University of Leeds and national charity, IntoUniversity, to transform the lives of hundreds of disadvantaged young people.
The IntoUniversity Centre in south Leeds , close to Asda’s headquarters, offers support during and after school for children from the age of seven upwards, offering a sustained programme of engagement and pastoral support to raise their academic attainment and help them to reach their goals.
Asda employees have taken the opportunity to mentor students and support them to learn about the business world and develop important career skills.
Find out more about the work of IntoUniversity in this YouTube video .
Santander Universities have been supporting the University of Leeds since 2011, helping all students to succeed, regardless of their circumstances.
Focusing on three key areas – education, entrepreneurship, and employability – a tailored package of financial and in-kind support creates a positive impact on Leeds students, particularly those from less advantaged backgrounds.
This funding helps students boost their career prospects through internships or overseas travel, empowers them to bring their business ideas to fruition and supports their learning with scholarships and bursaries.
Global engineering consultants Mott MacDonald are working with the University to develop our engineering talent and helping us to level the playing field for young people in east and south Leeds.
In this Youtube video , Managing Director, Mike Haigh (Civil Engineering 1981), talks about why they got involved.
We encourage students to become the entrepreneurial leaders of the future, and thanks to support from the corporate community, we are able to turn their best business ideas into reality.
Our Spark Business Incubator gives specialist advice to current students and recent graduates wishing to set up their own business.
Initially supported by Intechnology , the business incubator has proved so successful it is now part of the University’s core funded projects.
Alongside this, practical and financial support from partners, including online learning tech start-up, Synap , ensures that student entrepreneurs benefit from advice in product development, accelerator growth programmes and networking
The University’s interdisciplinary research networks look at global challenges with fresh eyes, generating ideas and potential solutions.
AIA , the largest independent publicly listed pan-Asian life insurance group, has supported air quality research in Asia.
Air quality issues have long been recognised and this project is identifying solutions to address the causes of air pollution and enable action to improve air quality in Asia, and so benefit the health, longevity and quality of life for current and future generations.
If you are interested in talking to us about how we might work together, please email Rebecca Morgan at foundations@leeds.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/give-to-leeds/doc/making-gift-memory:
When you make a memorial donation for a loved one, they become a changemaker – and so do you.
We’re here to help you you remember your loved one in the most meaningful way.
Donations made in memory change the lives of Leeds students, giving them the gift of a world-leading education, the opportunity to achieve great things and experiences that last a lifetime.
There are many ways of donating in memory.
By organising a collection for your loved one’s funeral or memorial service, you’ll be honouring them in a meaningful way.
In addition to an in-person collection, you can also create an online in memory page which can act as a memorial for family and friends so their memory lives on.
View an example format for your in memory page.
By honouring your loved one in this way you’ll help the University to continue to be at the forefront of tackling inequalities both in our own student community and in wider society.
To set up an online giving page please email Jessica Mifsud-Bonnici Senior Development Officer (Legacies) at give@leeds.ac.uk .
Send your collection donations to us online .
Here you can provide the name of the individual you are making a gift in memory of.
If you wish to post your collection donations, please make cheques payable to the University of Leeds.
Please send cheques to: Advancement Team, University of Leeds, Leeds, LS2 9JT
Please provide the following information so we can acknowledge your generosity appropriately:
If you prefer to send us the individual donations we’re happy to process these for you.
To keep your donations safe, please don’t send any cash in the post.
To discuss the areas of our work which your collection could support please email Jessica Mifsud-Bonnici Senior Development Officer (Legacies) at give@leeds.ac.uk before you set up your collection .
You can make a single memory gift in support of students at the University of Leeds by visiting our online giving page .
To discuss the areas of our work which your collection could support please email Jessica Mifsud-Bonnici Senior Development Officer (Legacies) at give@leeds.ac.uk .
A regular donation in memory of your loved one ensures that the University can continue to help students realise their dreams of coming to the University of Leeds.
Visit our online giving page to set up a regular donation in memory .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/give-to-leeds/doc/get-in-touch:
If you’re interested in joining our worldwide community of supporters, we'd love to hear from you.
Get in touch with one of our dedicated teams today to find out how you can support the University of Leeds.
You can support Leeds by making a single or regular donation via our Giving platform .
If you’d like to speak to us about your donation, please email us.
If you’re connected to a philanthropic trust or foundation and are interested in working with us, please contact the philanthropy team.
You can write to us at:
Advancement Team University of Leeds 9.30A, Level 9, EC Stoner Building Woodhouse Lane Leeds LS2 9JT

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/give-to-leeds/doc/gift-acceptance-naming-policy:
Read the University of Leeds gift acceptance and naming policy.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/give-to-leeds/doc/calls-from-current-students:
You may receive a letter or email from us to let you know we may try to call you soon, or to ask if you would like to speak to a current Leeds student and provide the best number to contact you on.
Throughout the year, typically linked to the University terms.
The fantastic Leeds alumni and supporter community.
To catch up and update you about what’s happening at Leeds.
It doesn’t matter how long ago you graduated, or what you are doing now.
We want to connect you back to your time at Leeds and update you on what is happening here today.
You’ll speak to a current student who is experiencing many of the same things you did whilst at Leeds, and we try our best to match you with a student where you share something in common.
This could be the course you studied, the halls you lived in, any interests you have told us about – or simply that you have both studied at the University of Leeds.
Our team of students use this common ground to have a great conversation with you and inspire your support of the University of Leeds.
It’s also a fantastic opportunity to learn about the exciting ways in which Leeds has evolved.
We have different levels of support you can offer, whether it’s volunteering your time or making a donation in support of current students.
We know that not everybody we speak to is able to share their time or make a donation when we call, but our students still value the opportunity to talk to you about your time at the University.
After your call, the student you spoke to will send you an email or letter in the post with any information you may have requested, or simply to say a big thank you for taking the time to speak to them.
Every person who makes a donation receives a thank you letter and regular updates on the impact of their gift.
I really enjoyed hearing about the different experiences alumni had studying at Leeds.
My favourite call was with a lady who worked as a clinical psychologist, a field I really wanted to end up in.
She was really encouraging about what next steps I should take after graduation.
I followed her advice and now I’m working as a Mental Health Support Worker.
When we call you, the phone number on display will be +44 (0)113 251 0001.
If you receive a missed call from this number and want to check whether it was us, please email the Give to Leeds team at give@leeds.ac.uk .
Since 2004, more than 17,000 alumni and friends of Leeds have donated over £7 million to the University – supporting students through undergraduate and postgraduate scholarships, the building of the Laidlaw Library, upgrading Leeds University Union as well as ground-breaking research.
Pearls is one of over 2,000 students who have been awarded a scholarship thanks to alumni donations, some made during a call with a student.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/give-to-leeds/dir-record/profiles/23301/fabiha-chowdury:
“Estranged from my family and alone in a refuge, the only thing I had left was a dream to study astrophysics at Leeds,” said Fabiha.
A month before she was due to sit her A Levels, aged just 18, Fabiha had to leave home.
Her parents disapproved of her relationship, and it was no longer safe for her to live there.
She abandoned everything she had ever known and she escaped to a women’s refuge.
For someone who had never had to support themselves before, the experience was incredibly scary.
But Fabiha was determined to live life for herself, and she made the decision to apply for a scholarship at Leeds so she could study astrophysics.
“I came to university with just £40 to my name and used to worry so much about money,” Fabiha said.
“But when I was awarded the scholarship, I had a safety net for when times got tough.
I could buy textbooks and fresh food, including fresh fruit and vegetables, rather than relying on 50p supermarket pizzas.”
Fabiha’s scholarship gave her time to focus on her studies and opened many doors to new and exciting experiences.
She became the president of the Vertical Fitness Society – helping to boost her confidence and wellbeing.
This was made possible thanks to the Leeds supporter community.
“It’s such a blessing to know that there are so many supporters who believe that my personal circumstances shouldn't limit what I can achieve.”
Please visit our Give to Leeds platform today to help to ensure that everyone in our community has an equal opportunity to thrive and succeed at Leeds.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/give-to-leeds/dir-record/profiles/23302/josh-king:
“My scholarship has allowed me to study without the stresses I’ve faced through childhood and adolescence,” Josh said.
Josh grew up in a single parent household.
He spent time in care, living with relatives, and in a women and children’s refuge.
He always dreamt of going to university, but knew the financial burden made it more challenging to do so.
“When I found out I had been awarded a scholarship to study at Leeds it felt great,” Josh said.
“I told my mum, and we were both so happy.
“Knowing I have the support of donors gave me a great sense of belonging at Leeds.”
The scholarship allowed Josh to focus on his studies.
Josh achieved the grades he needed to switch course to Politics with Parliamentary Studies after his first year.
He also enrolled on the Plus Programme, a scheme to support students who come from backgrounds that are less represented at university.
It provides a space for participants to connect with other students and access exclusive opportunities and funding to enhance their experience at Leeds.
As part of his course, Josh undertook a placement with MP Rachel Reeves’ team.
“It was an amazing experience.
Thanks to the scholarship, I was able to afford travel and smart clothes for the interviews.
I managed Rachel’s inbox, corresponded with MPs, constituents and businesses, and assisted with briefings and policy research.
“The placement made me feel even more determined to succeed, especially when Rachel became the UK’s first ever female Chancellor.”
Josh dreams of becoming a policy advisor and helping to shape policy decisions which will have a positive impact on peoples’ lives.
“My mum and I can’t thank the donor and supporter community enough for helping me follow my dream at Leeds.”

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/give-to-leeds/dir-record/profiles/23300/mason-macalister:
During the pandemic, Mason had the chance to reflect on how he spent his time and what he truly wanted from his career.
He dreamt of working for the Foreign Office, but it didn’t feel possible without further study.
“I knew I wanted to study for a Masters, but it wasn’t a viable option for me,” said Mason.
Due to a gap in postgraduate funding, he was unable to cover the cost of his rent and the commute from Lancashire to Leeds.
That all changed when donor Chris funded Mason’s Widening Participation Scholarship to study global governance and diplomacy.
“The money I received every month was a huge help and motivator for me.”
As an undergraduate at Leeds, Mason had missed out on many university opportunities because of his commute.
This time around, things were different: “I was able to relocate to Leeds and run a car, which has allowed me to go to interviews, attend classes and keep in touch with family.
The scholarship also covered the cost of food and bills.
“Thanks to Chris’ generosity, I was able to attend night classes with the Business Computer Institute – and I even learnt Mandarin.
This really helped with my studies and the next steps I plan to take in my career.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/give-to-leeds/dir-record/profiles/23299/emilie-barron:
In 2020, single parent Emilie was living on benefits with a young baby.
She’d just escaped a situation where she was experiencing domestic violence.
“Each month, I was looking at the bills coming in and picking one I wasn’t going to pay just so we could afford to eat,” said Emilie.
“I’d grown up in poverty and I didn’t want that to be our future.”
Emilie dreamed of becoming a social worker having experienced first-hand the support they could provide those in need.
But studying at university seemed a distant reality.
That’s when Emilie discovered the financial support available at Leeds thanks to the Leeds supporter community.
She applied for and received a scholarship.
“I couldn’t believe it when I got it.
Suddenly, that huge financial barrier standing between me and my ambition to become a social worker had gone.
“The scholarship made it financially possible for me to study at Leeds.
I can’t tell you what it means to have written this new chapter, to be thinking of things like saving for a holiday and a house.
“None of it would be possible without the Leeds supporter community.”
Emilie graduated in 2024 and secured her first job in the social care field.
“I’m so excited to make a difference to other people’s lives, as alumni and supporters did to mine.”

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/give-to-leeds/dir-record/profiles/23303/makeen-baroudi:
Makeen’s drive to become a surgeon was born through his experiences of civil war in his home country of Syria.
He arrived in the UK with his family as a refugee in 2015, hoping to escape the violence.
“I was a frightened 14-year-old when we arrived in England,” said Makeen.
“I didn’t speak much English.
I felt nervous about starting a new school the year before my GCSEs all while having to adapt to a new culture, new language and new surroundings.”
Thanks to his hard work and support from his parents, his teachers and the local community, Makeen achieved straight As at A Level.
He was awarded a scholarship to study medicine at Leeds.
The support helped Makeen pay for extra courses, leading to high grades and adding to his CV.
Studying during COVID-19 restricted contact time with patients, but Makeen was able to pay for books and resources which helped him to learn remotely.
Outside of academia, the scholarship meant Makeen didn’t have to work alongside his studies, allowing him to become more involved with societies and extracurricular activities related to his course.
It also helped him to feel safer at Leeds: “In Syria we never went out after dark because it wasn’t safe – and it’s still something that I don’t really like to do.
My scholarship meant I could afford to rent a house close to the campus so I didn't have to walk far from lectures which can finish after dark in winter.
It also meant I had spare money to get a taxi if I needed to leave the house when it was late.”
Makeen had the opportunity to spend seven weeks at a state-of-the-art spinal research lab in Rhode Island, as well as one week shadowing one of the world’s most renown orthopaedic surgeons in Florida.
The scholarship covered travel, accommodation and living costs.
“Those eight weeks will provide the kind of experience I need to become a spinal surgeon in future.
“Donor support extends far beyond the day, month or year they provide it.
Thank you for everything you’ve helped me accomplish so far and everything I might go on to do.”

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/give-to-leeds/doc/giving-volunteering:
Volunteer at Leeds and draw on your knowledge and experience to help students succeed.
Volunteering can mean lots of things depending on the time and expertise you’d like to share.
It could mean:
When you decide to support students at Leeds, you benefit too.
You’ll get to develop or enhance your existing leadership and mentoring skills.
You’ll also be able to expand your professional network to include the latest talented graduates, as well as your fellow mentors.
If you can offer work experience and placements, you’ll benefit from the specialist skills, new ideas and enthusiasm that our students can provide.
Our volunteers tell us that the best part of all is the feeling of pride and satisfaction they get when students flourish and gain the confidence to achieve their goals.
If you’d like to give some time to help our students go even further in their chosen field, email our Volunteering team at alumnivolunteers@leeds.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/global-engagement:
We believe in collaboration.
Only by bringing together expertise in research and education can we tackle inequalities and drive change for a better future.
We have strategic partnerships with institutions across China, Germany and South Africa to address the UN Sustainable Development Goals, solve global challenges, and reduce inequality.
We partner with institutions around the world to deliver joint teaching and collaborative awards in a wide range of subject areas.
123rd in the world
We are a founding member of the WUN, 24-research-led universities collaborating on research, postgraduate study and continuing professional development.
We are part of RENKEI, a partnership between universities in the UK and Japan to advance knowledge exchange.
We are part of the UK-Jiangsu 2020 (China) World Class Universities Consortium, to drive innovation, develop international talent and bring together universities in the UK and Jiangsu.
We support the the Fulbright U.S.
Scholar Program, which offers awards around the world for US citizens to teach, research and embark on professional projects.
The Cheney Fellowship Scheme supports outstanding overseas researchers to conduct research at Leeds.
Our students can take part in a wide range of international experiences to enhance their employability, studies and skills.
Our opportunities for full-time undergraduate students include:
An international research project in the Brazilian Amazon rainforest is underway, exploring the effects of extreme drought to identify how to protect forests in the face of climate change.
Research in Uganda is exploring how an invasive species of water plant can be turned into biogas for cooking.
Next year, a team of scientists from Nepal, the UK and Norway will head to the notorious Khumbu Icefall, to drill into and take the temperature of the glacier at over 6000m altitude.
An international research project is examining which coral reefs are proving more resilient than others to the effects of a warmer and more acidic ocean caused by climate change.
How indigenous populations were affected by, and responded to, COVID-19
A team of surgeons, engineers and designers have designed a technology to make it easier to carry out abdominal keyhole surgery in remote and low resource locations.
Commerce and climate change have decimated 17% of the rainforest over the last 50 years - but communities are building it back from the soil upwards.
Find out why thousands of international students choose to study with us each year.
Explore our blog about international research that makes an impact on a global scale.
Read case studies about our global research and development projects.
Read the latest global engagement news from the University of Leeds.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-open-days/doc/whats-on-open-days:
Discover what your life at Leeds could be like.
Explore the state-of-the-art laboratories where you’ll make your first discovery, immerse yourself in our inspirational study spaces or find your new home with a tour of our student accommodation.
The first step in your university journey starts here.
Book your place
Video transcript for Top tips for your Open Day .
Don’t be afraid to ask any questions, no matter how small they may seem.
We offer three types of sessions you can build your Open Day with: subject sessions, general sessions on University life and open sessions.
Our subject sessions give you all the information you need to confidently choose a course.
Talk to academics, experience taster lectures and get all your questions answered.
Join a subject talk where academic leaders and current students will discuss why Leeds is a great place to study your chosen course.
Find out about the incredible learning opportunities and high-quality research facilities Leeds has to offer.
Our academics’ globally recognised research feeds directly into their teaching, so you’ll benefit from the latest knowledge and thinking.
Attend a taster lecture to experience first-hand the excellent teaching our students receive.
Our subject tours help you to discover where and how you’ll learn and view the facilities you’ll have access to for your course.
General University talks are repeated throughout the day and cover everything from accommodation and study abroad opportunities, to career development and financial support.
Start your journey with us at our flagship talk in Leeds Student’s Union, where you’ll have the opportunity to discover more about life at Leeds.
Hear from our current students as they discuss what it means to live and study as part of our vibrant student community.
Afterwards, head to the Great Hall open house to explore one of the grandest red-brick buildings on campus and the home of graduation.
What costs can you expect at university and how can you manage your finances as a student?
Find out how to apply for student finance and what financial and cost-of-living support is available at Leeds.
Gain advice on the UCAS application process and top tips for making a successful application to University.
Discover your new home with a tour of our undergraduate accommodation .
We understand how important your accommodation is, which is why we’re committed to making the transition as easy as possible.
Learn more about the great range of accommodation choices available, how to apply and the application process.
Our contextual admissions scheme Access to Leeds is aimed at prospective applicants who want to study an undergraduate degree with us, but their background means they are less likely to attend university.
It could provide extra support and give you the chance to study an undergraduate degree with lower entry requirements, if you meet the eligibility criteria.
A foundation year is an extra year of study at the start of an undergraduate course which will help you to develop the study skills you need to succeed on your chosen degree.
The course is designed to support students from a widening participation background (who meet our additional entry requirements criteria) and who don’t currently meet the typical entry requirements for direct entry to a degree.
Find out more about studying a language ‘discovery’ module as part of your degree, or independently to further broaden your horizons and career prospects.
Learn more about the wide range of international and UK-based opportunities at Leeds including work placements, studying abroad , careers support, internships, volunteering, research and leadership programmes.
Explore our world-class sporting facilities and discover social sport, performance, scholarships, leadership and academic opportunities.
We understand that as a parent or carer of someone who is thinking of studying at Leeds, you may have your own questions about the University and higher education.
Our Parents and Carers talk is a great way to find out more about supporting your child through the university application process.
We run several drop-ins on student and University topics.
You don’t need to book these in advance – they run on a rolling basis throughout the day.
Subject drop-ins are a great chance to talk about your course in depth.
Ask subject specialists your questions and chat to current students about their favourite modules.
Many sessions also offer hands-on activities and demonstrations.
Often, they take place in the building where you will be taught as an undergraduate.
Most departments offer a drop-in session throughout the day.
You can visit at a time that suits you.
You can speak to a range of staff from University student services at the Information Fair in the Great Hall.
Get advice and ask questions about topics such as finance, contextual admissions and accommodation.
Find out about student support such as Disability Services, student counselling and Library Skills services.
You’ll also be able to find out about opportunities for personal growth, such as studying aboard and student placements.
Are you interested in learning about enterprise or becoming an entrepreneur?
You can study enterprise alongside a number of subjects as part of an undergraduate degree.
Visit Enterprise at Open Day to discover more about the opportunities on offer to help you get a head start.
Several accommodations managed by the University are open for viewings throughout Open Day to give you an up-close example of our residences.
We’ll let you know on the day which are offering tours.
Leeds has many inspirational learning and research facilities ready for you to explore.
Take a closer look at some of our facilities with a short tour, including The Edge sports centre, Gryphon Performance Hub and tours of our libraries including the chance to take a self-guided tour of the historic Brotherton Library.
Don’t forget to also join us on a tour of HELIX, our digital innovation and collaboration hub.
Tours run at regular intervals throughout the day, 9am to 4pm.
Our beautiful campus setting means you’ll quickly feel part of our friendly, welcoming and diverse community.
It’s a home away from home, a place to make new friends and settle into university life.
The campus is a single site located within walking distance of Leeds city centre, which means you’re close to everything this lively, multi-cultural city has to offer.
Find out more about living in Leeds and see what you can look forward to.
If you need to stay overnight, we recommend you book accommodation in advance.
Visit the Welcome to Yorkshire website for plenty of options for places to stay .
Many city centre hotels are less than 15 minutes’ walk from campus.
Check out the academic talks, but don’t forget to explore the other opportunities - there’s a society for everyone.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-open-days/doc/open-day-parking-travel:
The University of Leeds campus is a single site located within walking distance of Leeds’ centre and has excellent public transport connections.
On-campus parking is not available on Open Days, except for blue badge holders .
We’re committed to reducing the environmental impacts of travel, including congestion, carbon emissions and air pollution.
When planning your travel to our Open Days, please consider sustainable travel options .
Leeds train station is well connected to many major UK cities, including a fast and efficient London service.
For train information and timetables, visit National Rail Enquiries .
During Open Days, a shuttle bus will run from near the train station on Wellington Street B.
Our friendly student ambassadors will be at the station to greet and direct you.
The University campus is a pleasant 20-minute walk from Leeds train station.
Just use the following directions and you’ll be with us in no time at all.
Our student ambassadors will also be on hand to help at Leeds train station with walking maps to help you find your way.
Exit the station into City Square, with the Queens Hotel behind you and walk straight up Park Row.
Continue up Park Row until you reach the first major junction.
At the next set of lights, go straight on, passing Millennium Square on your left and Leeds City Museum on your right.
You’ll pass Leeds Beckett University on your left and you’ll see the start of our University campus in another 50 metres, on your left.
To reach the Parkinson building, carry on up Woodhouse Lane to the clock tower building.
You’ll be able to look at a map of campus there and plan where to go next.
Leeds coach station is where most long-distance coaches arrive and leave the city.
The main operators are National Express and Megabus .
The coach station is right beside Leeds City bus station, where you can catch local buses to the University.
Get a 30% discount off coach travel with National Express when travelling to our Open Days.
You can find local bus information and timetables from the following bus operators:
There’s also a Leeds CityBus 5 that stops at the bus and train stations, and the southern end of campus (near the back of Leeds General Infirmary A&E) every 10 minutes from 6.30am to 7.30pm Monday to Saturday.
There’s a taxi rank outside the bus and coach station.
There is a park and ride service that runs from Stourton, with a capacity for 1,200 vehicles, and Elland Road, with a capacity for 1,358 vehicles.
Parking is free, with journey times of 10-15 minutes into the city centre.
To navigate to the Stourton park and ride facility, search for the postcode LS10 1FF.
It is located at Junction 7 on the M621.
When you reach the city centre, please alight at Lower Briggate.
To navigate to the Elland Road park and ride facility, search for the postcode LS11 0EB.
It is located adjacent to the Leeds United football stadium, opposite the entrance to Elland Road Police Station on the A643, just off Junction 2 of the M621 motorway.
For more information about park and ride, visit West Yorkshire Metro .
Our convenient location means we’re within easy reach of several city centre car parks.
Use the Visit Leeds car parking guide for a full list of city car parks, opening times, and total spaces.
The locations of the closest city car parks are:
When planning your journey, we recommend you check Leeds City Council roadworks and closures information .
We have limited spaces reserved for disabled visitors.
If you are a blue badge holder and require parking, please email campusvisits@leeds.ac.uk .
To guarantee blue badge parking, you must submit your request more than 48 hours before an event.
If you’re thinking about cycling to the University, we have secure bike racks and changing facilities.
For bike routes and information about cycling in the city, visit Leeds City Council cycling .
If you are visiting us by bike and have any questions or mechanical issues, the University Bike Hub can help.
Find your way around the University with our interactive campus map .
You can download a printable campus map (PDF) or a large print version of the map's text portion (PDF) .
You can also use an accessible alternative to the map .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-open-days/doc/registration-arrival:
We’re looking forward to welcoming you to campus and showing you everything Leeds has to offer.
When you arrive, you’ll be greeted by one of our friendly student ambassadors.
They’ll be dressed in red t-shirts, ready to answer questions, and make your Open Day experience as smooth as possible.
On arrival, scan the QR code on your personalised booking page at one of our check-in and registration points.
This can be found on your booking confirmation email.
Simply search ‘Your Open Day booking confirmation’ in your emails and follow the link.
There are five check-in and registration points on Open Days at the main campus entrances.
These are:
Please remember to arrive at least 15 minutes in advance of any scheduled talks.
When you check in, you’ll be given a printed copy of our Open Day guide.
This guide is key to getting the most out of Open Day.
It’s full of helpful information, including a campus map, session locations and times, and even the best spots to grab a well-earned bite to eat!
Limited short-term storage for luggage is available.
Please ask one of our friendly student ambassadors in a red t-shirt on the day if you require this facility.
The Open Day is a public event, and an official photographer will be taking photographs and video.
This may be used by the University for publicity and marketing purposes.
If you do not wish to take part, please notify the photographer.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-open-days/doc/open-day-visitors-support-needs:
We aim to ensure our Open Days are as inclusive and accessible as possible.
Explore our wide range of support services designed to help you get the most from your experience.
Campus is generally accessible for people with mobility difficulties.
When you arrive, look for the signs for the ‘North South Access Route’.
This is an accessible route around campus.
You can also find this route in the printed guide you will receive on the day.
The route begins at the main entrance of the University – near the Parkinson steps – and ends at the Worsley building.
You can also ask one of our friendly student ambassador in a red t-shirt for help navigating campus.
Use our interactive campus map to view locations of:
You can also download our campus map (PDF) , download a large print version of the map (PDF) or use an accessible alternative to the map .
We can offer the following support on the day.
Please note, you will need to email the Open Days team at opendays@leeds.ac.uk in advance if you want to access some of these services.
For all alternative format and on-the-day support requests, please email the Open Days team at opendays@leeds.ac.uk with your requirements at least two weeks before the event .
Please note, we cannot guarantee this support if you make a request after the deadline.
For more information about alternative formats or support needs, please email the Open Days team at opendays@leeds.ac.uk .
If you’re a Blue Badge holder and require parking, please include this on your booking form, or email the Open Days team at opendays@leeds.ac.uk with your name and vehicle registration.
To guarantee Blue Badge parking on Open Day, you must submit your request at least 48 hours before the event .
For any enquiries about blue badge parking, please email the Open Days team at opendays@leeds.ac.uk .
If you are visiting campus with a guide dog, here are the locations of our dog spending pens:
Disability Services are here to support any student who has disclosed a disability in their academic studies.
Find out about the wide range of disability support we can provide during your studies .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-open-days/doc/undergraduate-open-day-recorded-talks:
Watch recordings of talks from our 2025 Undergraduate Open Days to find out more about our community and campus.
You can watch these recorded talks at a time that suits you.
Watch the discover the UK as a study destination talk.
You will also find out more about the application process and get tips on how to create a successful application.
Watch the UCAS Top Tips talk .
Learn more about the UCAS application process and get advice on how to make a successful application.
Watch the Accommodation talk.
Discover your new home with a talk on our undergraduate accommodation.
We understand how important where you live is to your university experience, which is why we’re committed to making the transition as easy as possible.
Find out more about the wide range of accommodation choices available to you, how to apply and the application process.
Watch the Student Finance talk .
Learn more about the costs you can expect at university, the financial support available to you and how to apply for student finance.
Watch the Languages for All talk .
Find out more about how to study additional language modules as part of your degree.
Watch the Your Sporting Experience talk .
Find out more about our leading sports facilities and discover social sport, performance, scholarships, leadership and academic opportunities.
Watch the Access to Leeds talk .
Learn about Access to Leeds, our alternative entry admissions scheme.
It’s aimed at prospective applicants who want to study an undergraduate degree, but their background means they're less likely to attend university.
It offers the chance to study for your degree with lower entry requirements, if you meet the eligibility criteria.
Find out more about the support on offer.
Watch the Studying as a Mature Student talk .
Learn more about the specialised support on offer at the Lifelong Learning Centre and what it is like being a mature student at Leeds.
Watch the Foundation Year talk .
Learn about the additional support on offer from Leeds to students who fulfil our widening participation criteria.
Watch the Parents and Carers talk .
We know starting at University can be daunting as well as exciting.
Find out more about how you can support your child through the higher education process.
Watch the Study Abroad, Work Experience and Careers Support talk .
Listen to our Student Opportunity teams as they discuss the wide range of global and UK-based opportunities at Leeds.
Learn how you can develop the skills, attributes and knowledge that will support you to achieve your individual aspirations and complement your academic studies.
These include work placements, study abroad opportunities, careers support, internships, volunteering and more.
Watch Welcome to Leeds - student panel .
Discover more about life at Leeds.
Listen to our current students as they discuss what it means to live and study as part of our vibrant student community.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-open-days/doc/video-transcript-open-days-university-leeds:
A transcript for the video embedded on the Undergraduate Open Days page .
A shot of the top of the Parkinson Building against a pale blue sky.
Leaves from a tree branch hang in the foreground.
A crowd of young people and adults mill around a tent outside a large, red-brick university building.
White text appears that says: Make the most of Open Day.
A red neon light effect traces the outline of an ornate stone doorway.
Above the door, the word 'Chemistry' is carved in stone.
In a tiered lecture hall, a lecturer in a white coat addresses an audience.
Text appears that says: Attend a subject talk.
The scene cuts to the lecturer in a darkened room, standing over three brightly glowing conical flasks.
Next, two people are seen from behind, watching stock market tickers on large screens.
A large, colourful abstract painting hangs on the white wall of a gallery.
Text appears that says: ...or a drop in.
The shot changes to another art installation.
Two young men walk across a paved courtyard.
A smiling young woman operates a large professional video camera.
Text appears that says: Get hands on.
A brightly lit sign reads 'Riley Smith Theatre'.
Below, a sign reads 'Welcome to Leeds Student Panel'.
On a stage, three students sit in a row of chairs, speaking to an audience.
Text appears that says: Hear about life at Leeds.
The camera shows the audience watching attentively.
A student ambassador in a red t-shirt speaks to two prospective students on a leafy campus path.
The scene shifts to a wide shot of the Roger Stevens Building with people walking in front.
A close-up of a sign for the Bioengineering and Biomaterials Laboratory.
A person uses a dental instrument on a mannequin.
A student in a maroon uniform demonstrates medical equipment.
Text appears that says: Tour our facilities.
A group of visitors watches.
In an outdoor plaza, a group performs a synchronised dance for a crowd.
Text appears that says: Explore campus.
A close-up of an ornate iron gate and sign for The Great Hall.
Inside a large, busy hall, prospective students and their families talk to staff at information stands.
Text appears that says: Get help and advice.
A campus rabbit eats grass in a close-up shot.
Text appears that says: Meet the rabbits.
A smiling student ambassador poses playfully as an image of the rabbit fades in behind her.
A student ambassador waves at the camera.
Text appears that says: ...and ambassadors.
Another ambassador smiles.
A parent and child enter the Charles Morris university accommodation building.
Text appears that says: View your future home.
Visitors walk through a communal area with a table tennis table and modern furniture.
A father and son play table football in an accommodation communal area.
On a red background, white text appears that says: Open Days.
One day could change your life.
Next, it reads: Book now www.leeds.ac.uk/opendays.
The University of Leeds logo follows it.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-applying/doc/declaring-criminal-convictions:
If you have an unspent criminal conviction, you may need to declare it to us when we make you an offer that you wish to accept.
More information is available in our Applicants and students with a criminal record policy .
When you get a conviction or caution, it’s usually ‘unspent’ for a particular amount of time.
The amount of time is determined by the type of punishment or sentence you received.
For more information, you can check the government definition of an unspent conviction .
You need to tell us if you have an unspent conviction of the following:
To find out when your criminal record becomes ‘spent’ for any of the offences listed, and whether you need to disclose it, we advise that you use the independent Disclosure Calculator from Unlock .
You also need to be aware of the following:
If you're not sure whether your conviction is relevant, email the declaration inbox at declaration@leeds.ac.uk .
You'll need to email the declaration inbox at declaration@leeds.ac.uk typically within 14 days of accepting an offer to declare a criminal conviction.
This deadline to provide all relevant detail may be shorter if close to the registration deadline for your course.
Failure to do so could result in the withdrawal of the offer.
You must make a declaration for each course you accept an offer for.
To make a declaration you should provide:
You can also voluntarily declare a conviction at any time before accepting an offer if you want to know whether it's likely to affect your admission.
If you’re voluntarily declaring a conviction, please state this in your email.
We do advise that you inform us as soon as possible if you feel this may apply to you so we can support you with the process and to give you the greatest opportunity to study at the University.
We also encourage you to take this opportunity to include a personal statement as part of your declaration to explain your reasoning for wanting to study at the University of Leeds since your conviction to support your case.
You can access independent advice on applying for university with a criminal conviction from Unlock and Nacro .
If we don’t consider your conviction to be relevant, we’ll let you know and no record will be kept of the declaration.
If we consider that it may be relevant, we’ll ask for more information.
This may include a request for permission to contact relevant people, such as your probation officer, social worker or referees.
We may also request to meet you to understand details of your conviction.
Once we have the information we need, we’ll carry out a risk assessment.
We’ll then either:
For some courses we might ask you to declare any previous spent or unspent criminal activity or punishments that may show up on a criminal record check while you’re applying.
This extra information is typically needed for clinical programmes, or courses where you will be working with young or vulnerable people and require Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) checks.
If this applies to your course, we’ll send you further information during the application process.
For some courses, you may need to pass a DBS check (or international equivalent) in order to comply with the requirements of the government and relevant professional bodies.
Where this applies, we’ll send you information as part of the admissions process.
If your offer requires a DBS check, you won't need to disclose anything other than the category of conviction when you receive an offer.
If the DBS check reveals any convictions that would prevent you from completing your studies, your offer will be withdrawn.
If you’re planning to study in the School of Dentistry, School of Healthcare or School of Medicine, you'll also need to meet their school-level admissions policy.
You'll be given more information about this during the application process.
If your offer includes a foundation year, as part of the declaration process we’ll ask you to confirm the course that you’ll be progressing on to after completing your foundation year.
Visa requirements may prevent you from entering certain countries.
If your course requires you to complete a module or placement abroad, you should check whether any criminal convictions you have could prevent you from entering that country.
We aim to admit a wide range of students to study at Leeds and we don't want to exclude students with criminal records.
However, we have a duty of care to protect our community and provide a safe and secure environment for our students, staff and members of the public.
This can include children under the age of 18 and other vulnerable people in line with our safeguarding policy .
We ask for information about convictions so that we’re able to identify and minimise any potential risks.
We also use the information to assess your suitability for your course or to stay in University accommodation and to make any reasonable adjustments where appropriate.
We’ll decide whether a conviction gives reasonable grounds for thinking that your admission would:
Where third parties are involved in the delivery of a programme, you may also have to meet the requirements of such third parties.
We treat all declarations confidentially.
Information is only used to carry out the risk assessment and any risk management steps identified.
All information is stored in an encrypted format and only accessible by the relevant members of staff as detailed in our criminal conviction policy.
If your conviction isn’t considered relevant, we won't keep any information declared to us.
If your conviction is considered relevant, the amount of time we'll keep the information will depend on the outcome of the risk assessment process:
You must notify the University as soon as possible.
Email the declaration inbox at declaration@leeds.ac.uk in order for a risk assessment to be carried out before your admission.
Please note that you won’t be able to register for your course until a risk assessment has been completed and the outcome communicated with you, with any restrictions (if applicable) accepted.
If you don't declare a relevant unspent conviction, your offer could be withdrawn.
If you’ve already registered, you may be asked to leave the University.
You have the right to appeal a decision.
To do this, email the Head of Student Cases at studentcases@leeds.ac.uk .
Grounds for appeal are outlined in our Applicants and students with a criminal record policy page.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-how-to-apply/doc/video-transcript-applying-ucas-university-leeds:
Transcript for the video Applying through UCAS - University of Leeds embedded on the Your guide to applying page .
[A voiceover says:] The application process for undergraduate courses involves a number of steps.
To help you understand them, this video provides a simple overview of each stage.
[A list appears on the screen:
Step one, application deadlines, is highlighted.]
[A voiceover says:] Applications for most undergraduate courses are submitted online through UCAS.
You can submit your application from September for courses starting the following year.
You'll also be able to apply to defer to a later year.
Each course has an application deadline.
The 15th of October for Medicine, Dentistry and Veterinary Medicine.
The deadline for the majority of other courses is in late January.
If you are applying through a teacher, school counsellor or agent they may have internal deadlines which are earlier than those of UCAS.
[The list of steps is shown on screen again, step two, completing your application, is highlighted.]
[A voiceover says:] There are three main elements to a UCAS application.
Your personal details, including subjects and qualifications you're studying and the courses you wish you apply for.
Your personal statement is your chance to describe your ambitions, skills, experience and motivations for applying.
And your reference, which is written by your referee, usually a teacher.
The referee will list your predicted grades if you are waiting for your exam results.
[Text appears on the screen: Tip, start your application early.]
[A voiceover says:] Allow enough time to create and check your application.
Your personal statement will take time to get right.
[The list of steps is shown on screen again.
Step three, receiving your offers, is highlighted.]
[A voiceover says:] Once you have submitted your application, admissions tutors will determine if you can have an offer of study.
If you are given an offer, it will be either conditional - this may rely on you achieving specific grades in your exams.
Or, unconditional - if you have already met the entry requirements for the course.
Some courses may invite you to an interview or ask you to submit a portfolio.
Step four, accepting your offers, is highlighted.]
[A voiceover says:] You'll then need to decide which offers to accept.
Your firm choice is your first choice of course.
If you have a conditional offer and meet the requirements, or already have an unconditional offer, you will have a place confirmed on that course.
Your insurance course is your second choice of course which you will study if you don't meet the requirements of your firm choice.
Your insurance choice should have lower entry requirements than your firm choice as you will be placed into Clearing if you miss the requirements for both courses.
If you apply by the January deadline, you'll usually have until June to make your choices.
Step five, confirming your place, is highlighted.]
[A voiceover says:] If you've been given conditional offers, you'll need to sit the exams required to meet the offer.
Once you have your exam results, your place will be confirmed on either your firm or insurance course, depending on the results you've achieved.
If you don't meet the requirements for either your firm or insurance choice, or you want to change your study options, you can apply to courses available in Clearing.
Step six, arriving at university, is highlighted.]
[A voiceover says:] Now all that's left is for you to start your course.
Most courses begin in September.
We look forward to seeing you soon.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/study/doc/university-leeds-admissions-policy-2026-27:
This policy applies to applications to begin study at the University of Leeds in the academic year 2026-27.
If you are studying in the academic year 2025-26, read the University of Leeds Admissions Policy 2025-26 .
The following school-level admissions policies are also in place to support this University policy.
Applicants to the following schools should refer to both policies:
The Code of Practice for Research Degree Candidatures and Programmes of Study (see the section called Programmes of study for research degree awards within Ordinances and regulations) also support this University policy and provide applicants for postgraduate research programmes with more detailed information about course-specific selection criteria and processes.
The purpose of this document is to set out the position of the University of Leeds relating to recruitment and admission to our undergraduate, taught postgraduate, postgraduate research and English language courses.
Where there are variations for the cohorts, this will be explained in the relevant section.
The University of Leeds is a research-intensive institution, which creates, advances and disseminates knowledge.
Our aim is to develop outstanding graduates and scholars who can make a major impact upon global society.
The University is shaped by the values of collaboration, compassion, inclusivity and integrity.
The setting of admission requirements plays a key role in maintaining academic excellence and inclusivity throughout the process of admission.
Our policies and practice are driven by the belief that the University is enriched by having a body of students and postgraduate researchers that reflects the community at large and includes students and postgraduate researchers from all parts of the UK and overseas.
The University of Leeds is committed to providing a professional admissions service that operates with integrity, through clear and transparent policies and procedures.
The University aims to provide fair and equitable access to all prospective students and postgraduate researchers who have the potential to benefit from and contribute to academic life at the University.
The University recognises that it may need to demonstrate a flexible approach and, where appropriate, make adjustments for individual applicants.
This includes, but is not limited to, the widening access interventions outlined in the University’s Access and Participation Plan .
The University is committed to providing accurate and clear information to support applicants to make an informed decision about their course.
The University requires academic schools to publish guideline entry requirements for all courses.
All offer letters must also include full details of any conditions an applicant must meet to be accepted on to a course.
For consistency and fairness, the general principles and procedures in this policy apply to all academic schools.
Some schools and faculties also publish additional admissions policies or admissions guidance, which support this main University policy and provide more detail about course-specific selection criteria and processes.
Visit Course Search for details of any additional policy or guidance specific to a foundation, undergraduate, taught postgraduate or pre-sessional English language course.
Additional information may also be found on the relevant school or faculty website, the International Foundation Year website , the foundation courses website and the Language Centre website , as appropriate.
For postgraduate research programmes, see the postgraduate research applying page or relevant graduate school website.
For Incoming Study Abroad (ISA), see the ISA applying webpage , or, for the Leeds International Summer School (LISS), see the LISS applying webpage .
For General English courses, see the General English pages on the Language Centre website .
The University’s admissions policies are consistent with the QAA’s Code on Admissions, Recruitment and Widening Access and comply with current equality laws affecting the admission of students and Chapter B11, Research Degrees, of the QAA’s Quality Code.
The admissions process will treat all applicants fairly and does not discriminate against applicants on the grounds of age, care experience, criminal background, disability, gender, gender reassignment, presentation or expression, marital or civil partnership status, parental or caring responsibilities, pregnancy and maternity, race (colour, nationality, ethnic or national origins), religion or belief (including non-belief), sex, sexual orientation, socio-economic status or trade union activity, as well as other relevant characteristics or any combination of these characteristics, as covered within the University’s Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Strategy .
This policy is reviewed annually and overseen by the University’s Portfolio, Programmes and Recruitment Committee for taught courses and by the University’s Postgraduate Research Recruitment Group for research programmes.
Policies and procedures for the admission of students and postgraduate researchers may be revised in line with changes to the internal and external admissions environment.
For example, the University continually develops its widening access strategy and processes in line with Office for Students (OfS) guidance and the University’s value of inclusivity.
Any amendments made to this policy after the point of publication will be summarised in the Version control section at the bottom of the Applying section.
Admissions decisions at the University of Leeds are made by academic schools and/or faculties in order to admit applicants who have the potential to succeed on course.
The Admissions Service, provided by professional services staff, is responsible for managing the admissions procedures in line with the University’s admissions policies, providing support and advice to its staff, enquirers and applicants.
The Admissions Service is part of Integrated Student Recruitment (ISR), which also comprises Marketing, Educational Engagement and the International Office.
ISR colleagues work together and alongside academic colleagues to deliver the University’s recruitment strategy.
Admissions Tutors and Directors of Postgraduate Research Studies, as relevant, work collaboratively with admissions and marketing colleagues in delivering the academic elements of the recruitment strategy and the faculty/school offer-making strategy.
This work includes reviewing and implementing faculty or school admissions policies/guidance through faculty recruitment committees or groups.
All members of academic and professional services staff with responsibility for the admissions process are given appropriate training and guidance on national or institutional changes to admissions policy or procedures.
The University operates policies on Preventing and Addressing Bullying, Harassment and Sexual Misconduct, by which all staff, students, postgraduate researchers and third parties, including prospective students, are expected to abide.
The University reserves the right to withdraw an application if behaviours are deemed to have contravened the Student Policy on Preventing and Addressing Bullying, Harassment and Sexual Misconduct (PDF, 203KB) .
By submitting an application to the University of Leeds, including via UCAS (Universities and Colleges Admissions Service), applicants are confirming that the information given is true, complete and accurate.
At any point from the start of the application process, continuing through the offer stage and on to when an applicant becomes a student, applicants should not:
As a general principle, students at the University can use generative AI to help with learning but cannot use AI to generate or falsify work.
This principle also applies within the admissions process, where the use of generative AI tools, including translation tools, to generate or falsify any part of an application is considered to be a misrepresentation by the applicant.
This includes, but is not limited to, using AI to generate a personal statement or work sample, and using any AI tool within an interview.
Further information on the University's policy on AI can be found in the Introduction to generative AI .
UCAS also provides a guide to using AI and ChatGPT with personal statements .
If the University is unable to verify any information and/or documentation provided, additional checks or information may be required.
This may include being invited to an interview.
Applicants must fully co-operate with this process within the timeframe provided.
If an applicant fails to meet any of their responsibilities, the University reserves the right to dismiss a current or future application, withdraw an offer of a place, withdraw a CAS (Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies) or visa sponsorship, revoke registration as a student and revoke an award.
Whether an applicant has failed to meet their responsibilities is at the University's discretion.
The University may subscribe to a system that processes personal statements or research proposals in order to identify documents that show similarity.
For example, applications made via UCAS are checked by the UCAS Similarity Detection Service.
Where potentially plagiarised material is identified by these systems, the University will review the case and decide whether to permit the applicant to submit a new personal statement or research proposal in support of their application.
If this opportunity is not granted (or is not taken up by the applicant), the University reserves the right to reject or withdraw the application.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/masters/doc/make-masters-reality-funding:
Masters study is a great investment for your future, so you should have a solid financial plan in place before starting your course.
To help you get started, we’ve put together eight top tips for making your Masters a reality with funding.
Don’t worry if you missed our Postgraduate Virtual Open Day, you can sign up now and watch a range of talks about how to fund your Masters.
You’ll also be the first to receive the latest information on scholarships and funding opportunities, with reminders of important deadlines.
Access online talks to find out more about postgraduate funding, careers, accommodation and our courses.
Funding your postgraduate study is much more personalised than at undergraduate level.
It's unusual for one source of funding to cover both fees and living costs, so most students create their own personalised package of funding from a variety of sources.
If you're a UK student, you can apply for a government loan.
Worth £11,836, it is paid directly to you, so you can choose how to use it.
Whilst it won't cover all of your costs, it can be used to cover course fees or pay for accommodation and living expenses.
The loan isn’t means tested, so all UK students are eligible, and you will only begin repaying once you earn over the threshold amount.
Visit the government website for more information on postgraduate loans .
At the University of Leeds, we have a wide range of scholarships for UK and international Masters students.
If you're awarded one of these scholarships, you won't need to pay it back.
You can apply for University funding if you meet our criteria.
Check your eligibility for our funding options.
If you are in employment, consider asking your employer whether they can assist with funding your Masters.
Postgraduate study can accelerate your career by helping you specialise in a specific field, qualify for professional practice or progress on to more senior roles.
It can also be a form of continuing professional development (CPD).
Speak with your current employer to see what might be available for you.
A great way to help fund your studies is finding a part-time job or arranging more flexible working hours with your employer.
This can be a great way to cover some of your living costs whilst studying.
Joblink , the Leeds University Union’s job centre, advertises opportunities that are suitable for students in Leeds.
They can help you find paid positions and internships, as well as giving you advice about your rights in the workplace.
Remember that your earnings from part-time work are unlikely to cover all of the costs associated with Masters study, so it’s important that you look for additional sources of funding.
You may also have the option to study your Masters part-time.
Part-time and distance learning courses offer you the flexibility to study for a postgraduate qualification whilst enabling you to work and fund your studies at the same time.
The University of Leeds offers part-time Masters courses, as well as a number that are available online.
Use Course Search to filter Masters courses by part-time .
Some independent charities and trusts offer grants to help fund postgraduate study.
Charities can make awards to any student, UK or international, and you are unrestricted as to how many you apply for.
You will normally need to apply directly to a charity for funding.
You may need to meet certain eligibility criteria and some charities might require you to submit a personal statement or attend an interview as part of your application.
It’s important to remember, however, that whilst charity grants are a great way to ‘top up’ your postgraduate funding, they are unlikely to cover all your costs.
The Alternative Guide to Postgraduate Funding website is a great resource for researching alternative sources of funding.
If you are a current university student, you can log in now and explore their database for free.
You can also find more useful information on finding charity funding on the Find a Masters website .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/masters-scholarships-bursaries/doc/subject-related-scholarships:
We offer a range of scholarships for students starting their Masters studies.
The majority are offered as full or partial fee waivers with the value of the award varying between subject areas.
Visit the faculty and school web pages in the following menu for more information.
Visit the faculty of Biological Sciences
Visit the School of Medicine website .
Visit the School of Psychology scholarships page .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/masters-scholarships-bursaries/doc/leeds-masters-scholarships:
Leeds Masters Scholarships – worth £7,000 – aim to encourage eligible UK fee-paying students from under-represented groups to study a Masters qualification.
For successful applicants, the Leeds Masters Scholarship can be awarded as a fee waiver or as monthly payments direct to you.
These scholarships are funded by a combination of generous alumni donations and University funding.
Applications for the Leeds Masters Scholarships will open in Spring 2026 for eligible applicants starting a Masters course in 2026.
By applying for a Leeds Masters Scholarship, you’ll be considered for the University’s Plus Programme which offers many free and bespoke activities, extra funding opportunities and more.
If your Leeds Masters Scholarship application is successful, you’ll automatically be registered on the Plus Programme.
If it’s unsuccessful, you may still be able to benefit from access to the University's Plus Programme throughout your studies.
The Leeds Masters Scholarship has provided me with the resources, time and freedom to pursue my academic interests and professional goals, allowing me to fully immerse myself in the university experience.
You can apply for a Leeds Masters Scholarship if you meet all of the main criteria and one of the financial criteria.
This does not mean you will automatically get a scholarship, but we will consider your application carefully.
You must meet all the three main criteria:
To apply for a Leeds Masters Scholarship, you must meet all the main criteria and one of the following financial criteria:
For Student Finance England funded students, you must be able to evidence that you were in receipt of a Maintenance Loan greater or equal to the value(s) indicated in the following list, for at least one year of study:
For students funded by either Student Finance Wales, Student Finance Northern Ireland or the Student Awards Agency for Scotland, you must be able to evidence that you were in receipt of any value of NI Special Support Grant or SAAS Bursary, or in receipt of a Student Finance Wales Maintenance Grant of £3,000 or more, for at least one year of study.
You must be able to provide evidence of individual, gross taxable income during the 2023/24 tax year of no more than:
The deadline for scholarship applications was 12pm midday (UK time) on Monday 9 June 2025.
No new applications can be accepted.
Applicants can expect to receive the result of their application by the end of July.
Scholarships are not awarded on a first-come first-served basis – all applications will be assessed after the closing date.
Please note: Information relating to scholarships changes from time to time.
While the University aims to keep this information as up to date as possible, we cannot be held liable for any inaccuracies.
If you’re in receipt of the Leeds Bursary or Means-tested Undergraduate Scholarship, you can apply for the NHS Low Income Scheme HC2.
You can apply for an NHS HC2 on the NHS website.
If you are successful, we will give you the option to receive your scholarship as a fee waiver or in monthly instalments directly to your bank account.
There is no difference in the value of the scholarship whichever format you choose.
Remember though, as a Masters student you are responsible for making the arrangements to pay your fees yourself.
If you choose to receive the payments directly, the Leeds Masters Scholarship, worth £7,000, is paid in eight cash instalments of £875 when we have verified you as registered on your course.
We pay the money directly to you from the end of October to the end of May.
If you are studying over multiple years, we will split the £7,000 evenly amongst all your years of study.
If you choose to receive it as a fee waiver, we will take the money off your fee balance and you will be responsible for paying the remainder as per the normal terms and conditions of your tuition fee payments.
No, you can apply for a Leeds Masters Scholarship before you have applied for your Masters course at Leeds.
Note: this may not be the case for other scholarships in the University.
Some Masters programmes will close applications before the scholarship results are announced.
We would encourage you to apply for your programme as soon as possible to avoid missing any deadlines.
Unfortunately only students paying fees at the UK rate (including those with settled status) are eligible for a Leeds Masters Scholarship.
If you are unsure what residency status you have, please check this with your school’s admissions team.
Yes, part-time students are eligible to apply.
If you are studying part time, your scholarship can be split across the number of years you will study.
Meeting the criteria does not mean you will automatically receive a scholarship.
The Leeds Masters Scholarship scheme is very popular, and we receive many more applications than scholarships available.
We aim to respond to applicants by the end of July.
We assess applications as quickly as possible following the closing date, however this is a lengthy and time-consuming process.
Give as much detail as you can in your answers to make sure we can assess your application as fairly as possible.
The scoring process considers both financial and non-financial criteria, so if there are circumstances which have – now or previously – affected you whilst studying, we encourage you to mention these in your application.
We can only consider the information you provide in the application.
We will only ask you to submit evidence to support your application if you have been provisionally selected for a scholarship or if you are a reserve candidate.
If we ask you to supply evidence, you will need to prove that you meet the financial criteria listed previously on this page.
We may also ask for other evidence, depending on what else you say in your application.
We will explain this clearly at the time.
Changes in government funding over the years mean we may ask you for different information, depending on when you graduated.
This may include whether you had a maintenance loan, a grant or bursary, or what your annual income is.
Read the ‘Financial criteria’ section of this page to find out which financial information you will need to provide.
If your question is not answered in our FAQs, please email the Leeds Masters Scholarship Team at pg-fsp@leeds.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/masters-funding/doc/external-funding:
External funding for UK/ EU and international Masters students is also available from a number of external organisations and funding bodies.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/masters-additional-funding-support/doc/sharia-law-student-loans:
The prohibition can apply to excessive or unreasonable interest, but may also include the commercial rate of interest paid on a bank loan, overdraft or credit card.
Sometimes the inflation-only interest that is paid on student loans for undergraduates and postgraduates is seen as Riba (although not all Islamic scholars share this view).
Some financial organisations do offer Sharia-compliant financial services.
They guarantee that money held in these accounts is not invested in industries such as gambling, alcohol or weapons manufacturing.
For more information on these particular products, visit the banks' websites:
Eligible undergraduate students can receive a tuition fee loan and maintenance loan from the UK government under the student finance system.
From 2012 entry onwards , the amount of interest charged depends on when you started your course, the type of course studied and the repayment plan you are on.
The postgraduate masters loan is funding to help with course and living costs whilst studying a postgraduate masters course.
The money received needs to be repaid and interest will be charged from the day the first payment is made to you.
Interest will normally be charged at the Retail Price Index (RPI) plus 3%.
A postgraduate doctoral loan is funding to help towards course and living costs while studying a postgraduate doctoral course.
Islamic opinion is divided on whether 'inflation only' interest constitutes Riba.
Some people believe that repaying exactly the same amount that was given as a loan is acceptable.
Others believe that it is acceptable if the amount repaid has the same purchasing power as the amount that was originally borrowed (as in inflation-only based interest).
Some other loans for study attract a commercial rate of interest.
For example, some students may need to take a bank loan to fund their studies (especially for postgraduate study).
Again, Islamic opinion is divided.
Some people believe that this is not Sharia-compliant, while others believe that if such a loan is crucial to a student accessing education, then it can be.
The Leeds Bursary package is non repayable support from the University that (for full time undergraduate students) requires you to have had your household income assessed by the Student Loans Company but it does not require you to have taken out a loan.
Find out more about Leeds Bursary .
Please note that if you decide not to take a loan for your studies for faith reasons, there is probably no specific Sharia-compliant alternative that is comparable to the government student finance system available at the moment.
Moreover, not taking the loan may have an effect on your eligibility for other sources of funding:

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/directory-record/22850/pragya-sharma:
As a child Pragya Sharma constantly talked about visiting other countries.
Now she has become the first in her family to study abroad having secured an India Anniversary Masters Scholarship and a place at the University of Leeds.
Pragya, who is originally from Delhi, India, plans to use her skills and experience in a strategic marketing role upon completion of her Masters.
Leeds has 500 International Excellence Scholarships available to study a taught Masters course starting in 2025, with a 50% fee reduction available for international students.
Having completed an undergraduate degree in Journalism and Mass Communication and honed her skills in media, storytelling and strategic communication, Pragya spent time working at a social media marketing agency in India.
After three years in employment, she was ready to take her learning to the next level and enhance her job opportunities by moving to the UK to study a Masters in International Marketing Management .
Through the award of a scholarship, Pragya received a significant contribution towards her tuition fees.
Pragya picked Leeds because of its globally recognised curriculum and immersive, well-rounded student experience.
“I wanted more than just a degree.
I wanted an experience and a new perspective on life – personal and professional growth,” said Pragya.
“When I was applying, my dad mentioned that I was the first in my family to study abroad.
They are excited and want to hear everything about my studies,” Pragya said.
She urges Indian students thinking of studying in the UK to “take the leap”.
“Speak to people.
Evaluate your priorities.
It is competitive and it is a big investment but if it aligns with your goals there are so many opportunities to explore by studying in the UK.
“It builds your confidence.
You get to test yourself in situations that you aren’t necessarily comfortable in.
“Be open to all experiences.
There are so many resources to help you get settled.”
University of Leeds students are able to access a wide range of career advancement support , which includes employment fairs, job application workshops and internships.
Pragya is preparing for an international study tour to Milan in 2025, adding another global dimension to the learning experience.
Pragya calls Leeds her “second home” with a “welcoming and engaging atmosphere”.
During time off from her studies, she enjoys weekend strolls and shopping.
As a Link to Leeds ambassador, Pragya is part of a team of students who provide online advice and support to prospective international students.
Read more and discover how to get in touch, on Pragya Sharma’s Link to Leeds page .
Would you like to apply for a scholarship and study in Leeds like Pragya?
The University of Leeds has 500 awards with up to a 50% fee reduction available for international students.
The awards recognise and reward high academic achievement, for students applying to study a taught Masters course starting in 2025.
Our International Excellence Scholarship supports students to fulfil their potential and join our diverse community.
For all students outside China, the application deadline is 16 May 2025.
Check the eligibility criteria and submit your application.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/directory-record/22849/andy-zhang:
Computer science student Andy Zhang is targeting a career in the burgeoning AI industry after receiving a scholarship to study at the University of Leeds.
Andy, from Beijing, first arrived to study an undergraduate degree with integrated International Foundation Year .
This provided the perfect platform for life in the UK and his sights are now set on a Masters.
Leeds has 500 International Excellence Scholarships available for students applying to study a taught Masters course starting in 2025, with a 50% fee reduction available for international students.
Andy recognises that developments in computer science are radically changing the way that we interact, process data and make decisions.
With AI knowledge in demand across industry sectors, the University of Leeds is building a strong reputation in this area.
“Learning about AI is important.
This area is moving very fast and could present good opportunities,” said Andy.
“But I am also interested in working in academia as I enjoy research that solves problems using software.”
Andy is enjoying life in Leeds.
He initially found the language challenging but, with support from the University’s Language Zone , his English has improved to a high standard.
“I received my first offer from Leeds and was happy to accept it,” said Andy.
“The University offers a lot of help to international students.
People have been very welcoming and always respond to my enquiries quickly.
Leeds has a good reputation and the teaching quality is very high.”
He lives in private shared accommodation, within walking distance of the University, and made new friends through the Leeds University Union Computing Society (CompSoc) .
I like Leeds, I like its culture.
The city is safe and I have found it inexpensive to live compared to other places.
“Leeds is very small compared to Beijing but I like the community.
I enjoy my lifestyle here and feel I could build a career in the UK,” Andy said.
Andy gained invaluable experience through a summer internship in the University’s Sir William Henry Bragg building.
“The experience of working and studying here with people from different cultures has strongly enhanced my views and thinking.
This will enhance my opportunities wherever I go in the world,” he added.
“If you apply yourself as a student you have a very good opportunity to achieve success after graduation and move on to further studies.
This will be career enhancing for me.”
As a Link to Leeds ambassador, Andy is part of a team of students who provide online advice and support to international students.
Read more and discover how to get in touch on Andy Zhang’s Link to Leeds page .
Would you like to apply for a scholarship and study in Leeds like Andy?
If you are domiciled in mainland China, the application deadline is 28 February 2025.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/welcome:
Get ready to join us in Leeds with our welcome guide.
It’s full of practical information and advice to make sure you’re fully prepared.
It’s almost time for you to start your journey as a University of Leeds student.
We’re really excited to welcome you to our community and help you settle into University life.
We know that starting university is an exciting time, but it can also feel a bit daunting.
Don’t worry, we’re here to help.
Registration is the official process of becoming a student at university.
Finalising your accommodation and getting ready to move is one of the most important steps when starting at university.
We have more than 13,000 international students studying with us, making our campus one of the most diverse and multicultural in the UK.
Whatever your situation, we’re here to help and guide you every step of the way.
Leeds is a vibrant and exciting city, and has one of the largest student populations in the UK.
It's a great place to live and study, with something for everyone.
Starting university is an exciting and busy time.
Taking care of yourself is the most important thing you can do to stay healthy and happy.
Leeds The Best UK Student City (2024 League Table)
300 More than 300 clubs and societies to choose from
37,000 Over 37,000 students from more than 170 countries
Explore the University of Leeds using our 360 virtual campus tour.
Contact the team if you need help or support with anything to do with your time in Leeds.
Which Leeds University Union (LUU) society are you made for?
Take their 60-second quiz.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news:
Reset search form
After a successful running and triathlon career, Jack Maitland enjoyed a period of unprecedented success as Head Coach at Leeds Triathlon Centre, helping to transform athletes into medal winners.
A unique programme supported by the University of Leeds helped to launch a landmark performance by thousands of children in Bradford this summer.
Yorkshire companies will be offered help to “youth-proof” their businesses and harness neurodiversity in their workforce, under two of the awards made by an innovative grant project.
The University of Leeds hosted the UK Corporate Games for a second year in a row with more than 75 organisations taking part in a weekend of sporting action.
As the Dead Sea shrinks at an alarming pace, environmental experts from the Middle East and UK are calling on regional policymakers to take urgent action.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news/article/5839/positive-impact-of-supermarket-junk-food-restrictions-revealed:
The research, which was carried out in England by the University of Leeds, estimates that two million fewer in-scope HFSS products were sold per day after the new law took effect.
Before the legislation was implemented, 20 out of every 100 items sold were in-scope HFSS products.
Following legislation this number dropped to 19.
Our research shows that the HFSS legislation was a force for good but more now needs to be done to make healthy and sustainable diets the easy choice for our population.
For the evaluation, researchers used store level sales and product data from Asda, Morrisons, Sainsbury’s and Tesco, alongside the Priority Places for Food Index , an online tool which identifies neighbourhoods most in need of support to access affordable, healthy and sustainable foods.
They also conducted surveys and interviews with representatives from the four UK supermarkets, the British Retail Consortium (BRC) and enforcement officers.
Nearly 2,000 shoppers were also surveyed to find out how the legislation was perceived and how it impacted shopping behaviours.
The legislation, which restricts the location of products that are high in fat, sugar or salt (HFSS), was introduced in England in October 2022 as part of the UK Government's Childhood Obesity Strategy.
Data were analysed by researchers in the Nutrition and Lifestyle Analytics team at the University of Leeds, led by Professor Michelle Morris .
She said: “Our research shows that the HFSS legislation was a force for good, leading to significant reduction in sales of in-scope HFSS products.
“But more now needs to be done to make healthy and sustainable diets the easy choice for our population, so that we can shift more people’s eating habits towards the national recommendations of the Eatwell Guide.”
The research is part of a broader UK Research and Innovation Transforming UK Food Systems-funded academic collaboration entitled Diet and Health Inequalities (DIO-Food), which is led by Professor Alexandra Johnstone at the Rowett Institute, University of Aberdeen.
She said: “It is critical that any new legislation does not widen dietary inequalities for vulnerable groups, like people living with food insecurity.
“We are reassured to see from our research that the impact of the HFSS legislation was equitable in stores located in areas with different levels of priority according to the Priority Places for Food Index.”
Dr Alison Fildes, of the University of Leeds School of Psychology, was a co-investigator on the project.
She added: “Our findings suggested shoppers were in favour of the HFSS legislation.
However, they also expressed their support for greater promotion and affordability of healthy foods.
“Tightening the current legislating to ensure HFSS products are replaced in prominent locations with healthier foods, would go further towards helping shoppers make healthier purchases”
The legislation reduced sales of HFSS products as a proportion of total sales:
Where there was an impact seen in the retailers, it was equitable across different geographical areas:
Retailers made a variety of changes in-store in response to the legislation:
Shoppers surveyed said the legislation was a good first step:
Eight recommendations are being made to policymakers as a result of the research findings:
Top image: Adobe Stock.
The following research papers are available:
“Customer awareness and perceptions of the high in fat, sugar, and salt (HFSS) placement legislation and impacts on self-reported food purchasing”
“It was a force for good but...”: a mixed-methods evaluation of the implementation of the High in Fat, Sugar and Salt (HFSS) legislation in England
Did the High in Fat, Sugar, and Salt (HFSS) product placement restriction legislation in England lead to reduced purchases of HFSS products?
An interrupted time series analysis using retailer sales data
For media enquiries, please contact Kersti Mitchell in the University of Leeds press office via k.mitchell@leeds.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news/article/5841/deforestation-may-cause-over-a-third-of-heat-related-deaths-in-tropical-regions:
Published today in the journal Nature Climate Change , the research was led by Dr Carly Reddington and Professor Dominick Spracklen , from the University of Leeds’ School of Earth and Environment.
The study, which analysed areas across Central and South America, Africa and South-East Asia, found that local climate heating caused by tropical deforestation has exposed over 300 million people to increased temperatures and is associated with 28,000 heat-related deaths each year.
Tropical deforestation contributes to rising temperatures by eliminating trees that naturally regulate the climate through shade, moisture release via evapotranspiration, and carbon dioxide absorption.
Without these cooling mechanisms, heat accumulates more rapidly at the surface, atmospheric moisture declines, and greenhouse gas concentrations increase—amplifying both local and global warming.
Dr Reddington said: “Our work underscores tropical deforestation not only as an environmental issue but also as a major public health concern.
“Vulnerable populations – with limited access to healthcare, cooling infrastructure, or adaptive capacity – often live near deforested regions and may be disproportionately affected.
“Protecting tropical forests could save lives by maintaining cooler local temperatures and reducing the risk of deadly heat exposure.”
In recent decades, tropical forests have been heavily affected by deforestation and degradation, mainly due to farming and logging.
This loss of tree cover has serious consequences; threatening biodiversity, disrupting the climate, and altering water cycles.
Deforestation is associated with a range of problems detrimental to human health.
Smoke pollution from fires in deforested areas degrades regional air quality.
It has also been linked to an increased risk of malaria.
This study demonstrates an additional health risk of deforestation through increased heat exposure and heat-related mortality.
The risks to human health are further exacerbated by social and economic factors.
People living in rural areas of the tropics often have limited access to healthcare, making them more vulnerable to extreme heat.
Access to modern technologies that help people cope with heat—like air conditioning or cooling systems—is more limited in many tropical countries, and many people work outside during the day increasing exposure to heat.
The research found people living across the tropics were affected, with over 48 million people in Indonesia, 42 million people in the Democratic Republic of Congo and 21 million people in Brazil exposed to heating from tropical deforestation.
The biggest impacts were found where lots of people live close to areas where forests have been cleared.
Using satellite data from 2001 to 2020, the researchers mapped areas of tree cover change to identify forest loss across the tropics, and the subsequent change in land temperature in those areas.
They then compared human population distribution data to map exposure of populations to local warming from deforestation, before comparing against data on non-accidental mortalities (deaths which weren’t caused by accidents, suicides or homicides) to estimate the heat-attributable excess mortality associated with this warming.
In areas of tropical forest loss, more than one third of all heat-related deaths were associated with deforestation.
The research highlights the importance of conserving tropical forests for the benefit of local communities.
Conserving these forests could mitigate the health effects of increasing temperatures on local populations, strengthening their ability to adapt to extreme weather conditions.
Professor Spracklen said: “Our findings underscore the urgent need to reduce tropical deforestation.
Increased recognition of the benefits of tropical forests for nearby communities will help build stronger support for tropical forest protection.”
Image courtesy of Adobe Stock.
For media enquiries please contact University of Leeds press officer Morgan Buswell via email on m.buswell@leeds.ac.uk or by phone on 0113 3438059.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news/article/5842/star-students-at-mathematics-school:
Almost a third of students gained a grade A* - more than three times the national average – with many earning progression to universities and degree apprenticeships.
The students come from across the West Yorkshire region, with 40% from areas of high disadvantage.
Robert Wilne, Principal at Leeds Mathematics School , said: “I am incredibly proud of all our students.
These remarkable A-level results are testament to their hard work and the dedication of our staff.”
The school, a partnership between The GORSE Academies Trust and the University of Leeds, opened two years ago, one of nine state-funded, specialist maths sixth form colleges in the UK.
Students with enthusiasm and aptitude for STEM (science, technology, engineering and maths) study A-level subjects in more depth than a traditional secondary school or sixth form college.
All students study Maths and Further Maths.
They can also take two A-levels from Chemistry, Physics, Computer Science and Mandarin Chinese.
In addition, the students receive industry experience and complete university-level extended academic projects as part of the Leeds Mathematics Certificate (LMC).
Martin Levesley, Professor of Dynamics and Control, and Justin Gallagher, Lecturer in Mechanical Engineering, helped the teenagers to learn coding to solve real world problems.
They have been using the University of Leeds’ ReLOAD system (Real Labs Operated at Distance) to solve problems such as making a drone fly in low gravity conditions.
“It has been a really positive experience for all involved,” said Martin.
“The students quickly absorbed the material and tackled things together as a team.
“Over a thousand students have used ReLOAD in the last 12 months alone and it runs 24/7 which means students at our joint school in China can use it when demand in the UK is low.
“There are not many people in the world who have this system and can do this work so we are proud of our technology and our students.”
Lecturer Dr Georgios Aivaliotis, an Alan Turing Fellow, has been supervising the LMC, teaching the students how to apply data analysis to financial forecasting.
The LMC is designed to bridge the gap between sixth form and university study by offering the opportunity to solve open-ended problems.
He presented a project focusing on the Central Limit Theorem, a statistical theory that can explain everyday observations.
“It is very exciting working with the students at Leeds Mathematics School as there is plenty of interaction.
The time we spend with them is great as you can see how interested they are,” he said.
“I could really see a difference in the students at the end of the year.
They had become more comfortable with the subject and spoke with confidence.
“They learnt to apply analysis to data such as infection rates in hospitals to see what the trends were and how solutions could be applied.
“They also developed teamwork skills and practised presentations which are all very useful for when they go on to university or employment.”
Student Oliver Reed said: “The academics at the University of Leeds were an exceptionally supportive bunch.
“Our personal supervisor gave real feedback on our progress, helping to develop our understanding on ideas within our project, giving points and guidance to correct our misconceptions, and generally just being supportive with any of the complications that arose within our group.”
Leeds Mathematics School is committed to supporting mathematics teaching and learning across the region.
The students also had the opportunity to volunteer with younger school children.
Student Tryphene Landa said: “I was incredibly happy to receive support from Leeds Mathematics School staff to run outreach sessions to increase the participation of girls in physics.
“The staff have encouraged so many different students across West Yorkshire to study maths - studying here has shown me that it's important to use our resources to help a variety of young people get involved in STEM.”
Steve Gleadall, Educational Engagement Manager at the University of Leeds, who was instrumental in setting up Leeds Mathematics School, said: “We are excited to work with the GORSE Academies Trust because they offer excellent provision and share the same values as ourselves.
“Like us, they believe in providing a safe environment that is also academically challenging.
We believe that anyone from any background can succeed in the right circumstances and with the right encouragement.”
Please contact the University of Leeds press office at pressoffice@leeds.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news/article/5835/bridging-cultures-through-song:
The ‘Sing Dance Leap’ schools project, part of Bradford 2025 UK City of Culture, brought together more than 2,000 pupils across the city with professional singers and dancers from the Royal Ballet and Opera and Northern Ballet, as well as the Chorus and Orchestra of Opera North.
The one-off performance marked the culmination of an engagement programme, led by the organisations’ education teams and designed to connect young people to opera, ballet and storytelling rooted in their own lives and communities.
Zane Berghuis, a postgraduate student at the School of Music and School of Performance and Cultural Industries, assisted the Opera North Learning and Engagement team in the project’s development and delivery.
His postgraduate study makes up part of his Pettman DARE Fellowship, a programme supporting community engagement initiatives through a blend of academic study and hands-on experience.
Funded by philanthropists Professor Barrie and Maureen Pettman, it enables Fellows from Aotearoa New Zealand to work within Opera North’s Learning and Engagement team while studying at the University of Leeds.
Zane, who is from New Zealand, worked closely with the team to support schools across Bradford – including some with little or no recent music provision.
“We introduced a drum in the performance called a Djembe which was provided by Laisterdyke Leadership Academy.
It was a way of engaging students who were not so confident with singing but still wanted to be involved.
“The performance was fantastic.
To see them step out and own the stage was transformative – not just for them, but for everyone who watched.
The University has done a good job at maintaining partnerships with the creative industry and giving students a direct way to connect.
"Being from New Zealand, I had no expectations of what Bradford would be like.
We were working with students who didn't have much experience with curriculum music, let alone opera, and so it was a pleasure to see them find their voice with the help of our expert deliverers at Opera North.”
Zane was the 20th recipient of the Pettman DARE Fellowship.
He has enjoyed his time at Leeds, exploring themes of cultural identity after drawing on his mixed Maori and Pakeha (European) heritage.
He said of Leeds: “There was a richness there; the libraries, the space for relationships to grow and access to people doing incredible things.
It was a privilege to be part of that ecosystem.”
Zane’s work on the ‘Sing, Dance, Leap’ project formed a major part of his Postgraduate Diploma in Performing Arts Education at the University.
While gaining hands-on experience with Opera North’s Learning & Engagement team, he also benefited from the knowledge and expertise of his supervisors, including Professor Edward Venn at the School of Music.
Zane recently returned to New Zealand Opera to work on Jonathan Dove’s community opera Monster in the Maze, a continuation of his work on the Fellowship, but is exploring a return to Leeds in September for a potential Masters.
“The University has done a good job at maintaining partnerships with the creative industry and giving students a direct way to connect.
It’s been a huge privilege to study there.”
Please contact the University of Leeds press office by emailing pressoffice@leeds.ac.uk .
Words by Anisah Arif.
Main image caption: The children are applauded for their performance which included singer April Koyejo-Audiger, actor Meg Elsegood and dancer Tom Whitehead.
Second image caption: Zane plays the Djembe.
The University of Leeds, via the Cultural Institute, is a proud major supporter of Bradford 2025, working collaboratively to support and contribute to this landmark cultural year.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news/article/5833/unique-global-health-course-launched:
The Global Health MSc brings together medicine and social sciences to create a cutting-edge course which is delivered online – making it flexible for students.
As part of the course, students will contribute to a World Health Organization (WHO) International Health Regulations (IHR) database.
They will choose an IHR benchmark, and carry out a scoping review of quantitative evidence on whether benchmark preparedness increases readiness, before preparing a report which could be published by WHO.
Professor Garrett Wallace Brown , Chair of Global Health Policy at the University of Leeds, said: “This is a fantastic opportunity for students to be able to say they delivered a benchmark report for WHO, or even co-authored a review with WHO.
“This MSc programme is really unique.
It’s looking at all the interesting facets of global health, bringing together medicine and social sciences.
It’s a fusion of disciplines.
“There is nothing like this out there - you can find elements in other university courses, but nothing that brings it all together like this programme does.”
Being fully online, the programme is flexible for students with personal or work commitments outside their studies.
There are two entry points a year, and it can be paused at any point.
It also offers the chance to study with the University of Leeds from all over the world.
Garrett added: “We’re excited to have a classroom of students from around the world, who can bring local insights.
We’re hoping to create a network of people for the future of work in this area.”
The Programme will also train students on using Artificial Intelligence (AI) in health research.
Students will design a project around AI and learn the parameters of using the technology in this field – a useful skill in our changing world.
Margaret Korosec, Director of Online Education at the University of Leeds, emphasised the numerous advantages online learning presents for a diverse range of students who might otherwise find it challenging to study with us.
She said: “We are deliberate in designing part-time study that operates independent of location and time, enabling students to progress alongside personal or workplace commitments.
This approach fosters inclusive education and removes barriers to learning which are fundamental goals for us; online learning extends the existing educational opportunities available at the University of Leeds.
We look forward to welcoming you to Leeds for this innovative degree!”
WHO and the University of Leeds have recently renewed their collaboration , building on a successful four-year partnership.
Through this partnership, WHO and the University of Leeds will continue to provide essential tools, research, and training, helping countries better prepare for future health emergencies and ensuring that WHO’s efforts in health emergency preparedness are grounded in the latest evidence and innovations.
It will also provide opportunities for graduate researchers in research projects to address health security challenges, equipping the next generation of professionals with the skills needed to tackle health emergencies.
Image credit: Shutterstock
For further information please contact Becky Pascoe in the University of Leeds press office on r.pascoe@leeds.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news-university/news/article/5836/leeds-secures-top-20-ranking-in-daily-mail-university-guide:
The Guide assesses student satisfaction and graduate outcomes as well as measures such as research quality and student–staff ratios.
It is one of several domestic rankings used by prospective students, parents and advisors when comparing universities across the UK.
Subject areas at Leeds featuring in the guide’s top ten include Artificial Intelligence, Art, Bioengineering, Civil Engineering, Design Studies, Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Finance, Media Studies, Philosophy, Production and Manufacturing Engineering and Theology and Religious Studies.
Leeds’ rise from 25th last year demonstrates how progress in areas that matter most to students is being recognised externally - and follows success for the University in other national and global rankings.
The latest success reflects, in part, progress seen in the 2025 National Student Survey (NSS) , where improvements were seen for Leeds across every theme and question.
Professor Hai-Sui Yu, Provost and Deputy Vice-Chancellor, said: “It is especially pleasing to see that the progress we have made in improving our students’ experience is starting to be recognised in national league tables such as the Daily Mail University Guide.
“The significant improvements in this year’s National Student Survey reflect the hard work and dedication of colleagues across the University, working in partnership with students to enhance education, support and facilities.
“While league tables are just one way of measuring performance, they can help demonstrate to prospective students, staff and partners that Leeds is committed to delivering a high-quality, inclusive and supportive learning environment.”
The University of Leeds has also improved its position in the 2025 Academic Ranking of World Universities (ARWU), published by Shanghai Ranking.
The University’s world ranking has improved by 10 places year-on-year, maintaining Leeds’ position within the top 200 institutions globally.
At the same time, the University’s national ranking has improved by three places year-on-year, placing Leeds in the top 18 UK universities.
ARWU ranks universities by several academic or research performance indicators, including alumni and staff winning Nobel Prizes and Fields Medals, highly cited researchers, papers published in Nature and Science, papers indexed in major citation indices and per capita academic performance.
Leeds has also performed strongly in other national and global rankings over the past year:
Please visit the Daily Mail University Guide website (subscription required) or contact the University of Leeds press office at pressoffice@leeds.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news/article/5837/global-programme-develops-student-skills:
The Global Futures programme is one of a number of global experiential learning programmes at the University of Leeds.
Ten University of Leeds undergraduate students from under-represented backgrounds took part in the programme, which was fully funded by Footsteps and Turing  funding .
Michael Wiciak, who has recently graduated with an Integrated Masters in Computer Science with Artificial Intelligence, worked with a social enterprise company in Malaysia called Earth Heir .
Earth Heir stock products from local artisans and indigenous people around Malaysia.
The company promotes social good and provides income to those communities.
Michael, who will start a graduate role as a software engineer at Lloyds Bank in September, said there were many transferable skills he was able to learn and refine.
“In the future I will be working with clients and this experience has helped me to really refine my skills to understand what clients want.
“It helped that I was the only technical person in the office here in Malaysia, therefore I had to communicate what I knew from a technical standpoint to people who were not in the field and offer solutions for going forward.”
Michael was involved with tasks including website development and data management.
Andy Tan, Finance and Operations Lead at Earth Heir, said: “Michael approached each challenge with a positive mindset to explore, learn and expand his knowledge to provide us with a viable and practical solution to support our business.
“He leaves us with our admiration to his work ethics, quality and professionalism throughout the three weeks.”
It’s a chance to gain a distinct professional edge while also discovering what they’re capable of in a global context.
Georgie Lawson, who has just graduated with a BA in Geography, found the opportunity on the University careers websit e.
She said: “It was an opportunity that really stood out to me.
“The fact that it was an overseas opportunity was a really good selling point, with the programme being in the global south and in Southeast Asia, I wanted to do it as I was looking for an authentic experience.
The fact that the opportunity included learning from global leaders in Malaysia was really appealing.”
Georgie worked with Sea Monkey Project , a start-up business run by an Australian family who are trying to create solutions for plastic waste in the ocean.
The company collects three different types of plastics and converts them into products including coasters, bracelets, combs.
The business sells machines that can turn plastic into products that can then be sold at retail.
Georgie worked in the marketing and sales team and during the project went on a trip to Penang to work on social media for the brand.
Kiran Collins, Global Opportunities Assistant Manager at the University of Leeds, said: “Experiential programmes like Global Futures provide students from under-represented backgrounds with a fully funded, transformative opportunity that extends far beyond the classroom.
“Immersed in a diverse, international environment, students not only build essential leadership and intercultural skills but also test their ability to adapt and thrive in unfamiliar, real-world settings.
“Students tell us how this experience pushes them beyond their comfort zone, building confidence and resilience in ways that traditional academic settings can’t replicate.
“Crucially, the funding makes these opportunities genuinely accessible - allowing students to focus on growth, not finances.
It’s a chance to gain a distinct professional edge while also discovering what they’re capable of in a global context.”
The trip was staged in partnership with Common Purpose, who helped the students with workshops, talks from leaders in different industries and cultural immersion with the city.
The students presented the deliverables from the project to highlight the key learnings from their experiences to Common Purpose.
Duncan McCombe, Partnerships Manager, Common Purpose said: “Global Futures gives students the chance to step into a completely different environment, work with organisations on real challenges, and see the world through new eyes.
They learn to navigate uncertainty, adapt to new situations, and understand perspectives very different from their own.
“The result is graduates who are not just work-ready, but more empathetic, agile, and able to lead with cultural awareness; all skills that will stay with them long after the programme ends.”
Top image: University of Leeds students at the Batu Caves, Malaysia.
Credit: Michael Wiciak

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/media-relations/doc/filming-permissions:
Any organisation or individual wanting to film, record audio or take photographs on the University of Leeds campus must first obtain permission.
Consent for external organisations is granted by the Communications team and Estates helpdesk can assist University of Leeds staff and students wanting to film on campus.
To request permission to film please email the Media Relations team via pressoffice@leeds.ac.uk with the following details:
You should receive a response within 24 hours.
A quicker response will be provided for news organisations.
External organisations wishing to film on campus are required to have a Public Liability Policy with a £10 million limit of indemnity.
Please note you may also be required to carry out a risk assessment depending on the nature of your request.
The Communications team will advise further on receipt of your request form.
The team can be contacted on +44 (0)113 343 4031 .
Location finders should in the first instance contact the Conferencing and Events team on:
If you are a staff member or student at the University of Leeds, please contact the Estates Helpdesk on:

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/campus-directory:
Find out more information about our buildings and facilities at the University of Leeds in this accessible alternative to the campus map.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/honorary-graduates:
We have conferred honorary awards on individuals in science, art, academia, industry, politics, medicine, entertainment and many other areas.
Award winning performer, writer, director and producer.
Business academic and founder of the Centre for International Business.
Former Vice-Chancellor of the University of Leeds and former Chief Executive of NHS England.
Rugby league player, rugby union coach, fundraiser for Motor Neurone Disease charities.
Since 1904, we have conferred honorary awards on a host of individuals from the worlds of science, art, academia, industry, politics, medicine, entertainment and many other fields.
See our honorary graduates from 1900 to present day.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/university-executive/dir-record/profiles/23316/professor-kenneth-mcdowall:
Email Professor Kenneth McDowall's Executive Assistant Ruth Smith: R.C.Smith@leeds.ac.uk
As Interim Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Student Education and Experience, Professor Kenneth McDowall brings extensive expertise in education, research, and strategic leadership to the University’s Executive.
He previously served as University Dean for Portfolio and Curriculum and as Academic Lead for Curriculum Redefined, our flagship initiative to enhance teaching and learning.
In these roles, he played a key part in delivering the University’s educational strategy, focusing on developing a market-informed portfolio, improving curricula, driving pedagogical innovation, and fostering an inclusive, supportive environment for all students.
His leadership has significantly impacted the effectiveness, development, and long-term sustainability of student education at Leeds.
Before this, Professor McDowall was the Pro-Dean for Student Education in the Faculty of Biological Sciences, where he spearheaded transformative initiatives to improve academic programmes and student outcomes.
He was a principal architect of the Faculty’s ‘FBS Refresh’ change programme, a major curriculum review that refocused teaching and research around areas of strength to enhance academic and financial sustainability.
Professor McDowall joined Leeds as a Royal Society University Research Fellow, following postdoctoral research at Stanford University supported by a prestigious fellowship from NATO.
He began his academic career with a Bachelor’s degree in Microbiology from the University of Edinburgh, followed by a PhD in Molecular Genetics from the University of Glasgow.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/university-executive/dir-record/profiles/19809/professor-nick-plant:
Email Professor Nick Plant's Executive Assistant Sarah Foster: s.foster@adm.leeds.ac.uk
Professor Nick Plant leads on the development of the University’s research and innovation strategy, creating a research culture and environment which delivers high quality research and impact for the region and beyond.
His brief includes promoting partnerships in a number of key sectors, accelerating collaboration across a wide range of academic disciplines and driving recruitment of world-leading academics.
He is the Executive sponsor for the Supporting a Net Zero City and Reorienting Research and Teaching principles of the University's Climate Plan.
Professor Plant came to Leeds as Dean of Research Quality and Impact in 2017, leading on the development and enhancement of the University’s research profile.
This included leading the implementation of an institutional-wide quality and impact delivery plan and preparations for the 2021 Research Excellence Framework, the system for assessing research quality in UK higher education institutions, as well as ensuring the University continues to invest in its greatest asset: its staff.
Before joining the University he was an Associate Professor in Systems Biology at the University of Surrey.
He is a science graduate of the University of Nottingham.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/university-executive/dir-record/profiles/19807/professor-hai-sui-yu:
As Provost and Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Professor Hai-Sui Yu is the standing deputy for the Vice-Chancellor and President, providing oversight and coordination of the University’s academic strategy and its strategic planning and delivery against the University’s key performance indicators (KPIs).
He also leads on the University’s international strategy.
Professor Yu holds the role of Professor of Geotechnical Engineering in the School of Civil Engineering.
His other key leadership responsibilities include:
Professor Yu served as Interim Vice-Chancellor and President from 1 November 2023 to 31 October 2024.
Prior to joining the University of Leeds in 2016, Professor Yu served as Pro Vice-Chancellor (Global Engagement), Executive Dean of the Faculty of Engineering and Head of the School of Civil Engineering, and Professor of Geotechnical Engineering at the University of Nottingham.
During his academic career, Professor Yu has worked with many leading institutions in the USA, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, France, Austria, and Italy.
He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering in 2011 for outstanding personal engineering achievement.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/structure-governance/dir-record/profiles/19813/professor-dame-jane-francis:
The Chancellor can be contacted by emailing University Secretary's office via university-secretary@leeds.ac.uk .
Director of the British Antarctic Survey since 2013, Professor Dame Jane Francis is a pioneering scientist whose study of fossil plants and their use as tools for climate interpretation is recognised internationally.
Jane read Geology and completed a PhD at the University of Southampton.
From 1979-1982, she continued her studies as a Natural Environment Research Council (NERC) Postdoctoral Research Fellow at Bedford College, London before taking up a position as a palaeobotanist at the British Antarctic Survey from 1984 to 1986.
She has conducted her pioneering research in many different environments.
At the University of Adelaide, for example, where she worked as a Postdoctoral Research Associate, she faced scorpions while analysing rock samples in the Australian outback.
The majority of her work, though, has taken place in her numerous trips to the Arctic and Antarctic.
Jane’s 22-year career at the University of Leeds began in 1991 when she became a Lecturer in the Department of Earth Sciences.
She was promoted to Professor of Palaeoclimatology in the School of Earth and Environment and was the Director for the Centre for Polar Science before becoming Dean of the Faculty of Environment in 2008.
She left in 2013.
In 2002, she was awarded the Polar Medal , presented for outstanding contribution to polar research, which has also been awarded to Captain Robert Scott and Sir Ernest Shackleton.
She has served as President of the Palaeontological Association and as a member of the Executive Committee of the European Polar Board and has been deeply involved with the Antarctic Treaty – a unique international agreement which protects the world’s largest wilderness.
In conferring the Coke Medal upon her in 2014, the Geological Society of London described her as playing a ‘pivotal role in shaping and directing the Earth science carried out in polar regions, through her extensive service on a staggeringly wide range of national and international policy committees’.
She received an Honorary Doctorate of Science from the University of Leeds in 2014 and was appointed Dame Commander of the Order of St Michael and St George (DCMG) for services to polar science and diplomacy in the 2017 New Year Honours.
Jane’s ability to make complex scientific research publicly accessible are exemplified in two BBC radio programmes:
Jane succeeded Melvyn Bragg (Lord Bragg of Wigton) who stepped down in 2017, after 17 years in office.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/about/doc/income-spend:
The financial information on this page relates to the financial year that ended on 31 July 2022.
We refer to this as “2021/22” in the text.
Where we refer to “2020/21”, we mean the financial year ended 31 July 2021.
The following sections provide an explanation of our sources of income in 2021/22 and the expenditure and activity which they fund.
Note: all percentages have been rounded to the nearest percentage point for clarity.
The University has several income sources to support its work, including student fees and education contracts, government grants, other income through commercial activities including residences, catering and conferences, as well as donations.
We also attract research grants from charities, research councils, companies and other organisations that help us fund our world-class research activity.
We use this income to support a wide range of activity including teaching and learning, cutting-edge research, knowledge exchange and community engagement.
Research-based teaching and learning excellence, a high-quality student experience and successful student outcomes are at the centre of everything we do at the University.
In 2021/22 we received income of £501 million from student fees and education contracts, alongside £177 million from research grants and contracts.
Student fee income in 2021/22 included £33 million of postgraduate taught fee income which would ordinarily have been recorded in 2020/21 but for which the teaching was partly deferred into 2021/22 as a result of the pandemic.
Student fee and research income was supported by government grants of £85 million, with £28 million of this relating to teaching activity and £57 million to research.
The remainder of our income was made up of £63 million for residences, catering and conferences and £104 million from other income streams, such as income from hospitals and health authorities for direct support from the University, our National Institute of Health Research (NIHR) coordination centre, capital grants from funding bodies and donations.
*Note: the £60 million surplus for reinvestment in 2021/22 includes £33 million of postgraduate taught fee income which would ordinarily have been recorded in 2020/21 but for which the teaching was partly deferred into 2021/22 as a result of the pandemic.
Adjusting for that one off item, we would show £27 million surplus for reinvestment.
Expenditure in 2021/22 totalled £930 million (including the surplus for re-investment).
Of this, £746 million supported teaching and the student experience here at Leeds and this is broken down further in the next section.
The remaining £184 million spend comprised £117 million of direct research expenditure and £66 million on residences, catering and conferences – none of which are funded by student tuition fees.
Student fees and education contracts totalling £501 million represent a significant portion of our University income, which contribute to the £746 million costs necessary to support teaching and research-based teaching.
Our students' fees pay for lecturers and other academic staff, building maintenance, as well as maintaining equipment and laboratories – at £283 million, this makes up a significant proportion of our expenditure, as we want to ensure our students get the best possible education.
We provide this by investing in teaching facilities and attracting teaching staff who are actively engaged in pioneering research.
Student fees also contribute to our student support and academic services, which are important to the student experience.
In 2021/22 we spent £39 million on student support, which includes services such as counselling, disability support, financial advice and mental health support.
We also spent £124 million on our IT, library and academic services whose facilities aid learning outside of the lecture theatre and are accessible to all of our students.
This figure also includes £24 million of expenditure on our National Institute of Health Research (NIHR) coordinating centre.
Furthermore, we are proud to invest £53 million in scholarships and bursaries to ensure all our students have the opportunity to realise their potential, regardless of background.
We also need to spend money behind the scenes on essential things that keep our University running, like utilities, insurance, maintaining the estate and the wide range of staff who provide essential services, for example cleaning, human resources and finance.
In 2021/22 we spent £188 million on these activities – £94 million on our estate, £76 million on general running costs and £18 million on other expenditure.
In 2020/21, we launched our 2020-2030 strategy which sets out our ambitions to build a thriving community and a collaborative culture to make an impact locally and globally in the areas of research and innovation, student education, digital transformation and international.
Delivering this strategy requires significant investment in our digital and technological capabilities as well as in the further development of our campus, buildings and facilities.
It also requires investment to enable further innovation in the way we teach, carry out research and collaborate with other universities and organisations.
The charts on this page show a £60 million surplus for reinvestment.
In the previous year we recorded a deficit because of the financial impacts of COVID-19.
As explained on this page, it is important to note that the surplus in 2021/22 is inflated by the recording of £33 million of postgraduate taught fee income which would ordinarily have been recorded in 2020/21 but for which the teaching was partly deferred into 2021/22 as a result of the pandemic.
Adjusting for that one off item we would show £27 million surplus for reinvestment.
The surplus that we have generated in 2021/22 is important to help support investment that is being made to deliver the University strategy and to continue to improve campus facilities, with student experience and outcomes being at the heart of that investment.
2021/22 saw the start of investment in the initiatives that will deliver our 2020-2030 strategy.
These initiatives include:
In addition to these strategic initiatives, in 2021/22 the University invested £37 million predominantly in new academic facilities, equipment and infrastructure improvements.
We plan to increase the investment in our campus over the coming years.
An important part of this will be the delivery of our Climate Plan including our Net Zero strategy, as well as delivering digital facilities and physical infrastructure.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/downloads/download/72/our_reports_and_accounts:
Our annual reports and accounts, which include information about the University's governance and management, income, expenditure, staff costs and salaries.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/about/doc/annual-report-remuneration-committee-2023-24:
The Remuneration Committee is a formal committee of the University Council.
This report outlines the responsibilities of the Committee, and its key activities and decisions during the year to 31 July 2024, in accordance with guidance provided by the Committee of University Chairs (CUC).
The Committee reviewed its terms of reference and schedule of meetings and business during 2023/24.
This included a benchmark with other universities and taking consideration of the remits of other Council and Executive committees.
The current Terms of Reference which align with the CUC Guidance are as follows:
The annual review of the Terms of Reference is to ensure that they remain appropriate and compliant with relevant legislation, codes and other current guidelines, and to confirm that the focus of the Committee’s work has addressed these priorities.
The Committee meets at least three times each year and arranges additional meetings as appropriate and required.
The Committee consists of five lay members of Council.
For the period of this report the membership was as follows:
It is the responsibility of Council to ensure that the membership of the Committee has the necessary skills, experience and support to meet the Committee’s responsibilities.
The current membership of the Committee meets this criteria.
The Committee undertakes an annual review of its own effectiveness.
The Chair of the Remuneration Committee is appointed by the Council and is an independent member of Council other than the Chair of Council.
The Committee can, if it so wishes, call upon external advisers as appropriate.
The Vice-Chancellor & President, University Secretary & Registrar and the Director of People & Culture Officer (or nominee) are not members of the Committee, but attend as follows:
The Vice-Chancellor & President only attends for agenda items that relate to their role as line manager of Executive members, and to enable the Committee to ensure full consideration of individual performance and organisational strategy when considering remuneration-related decisions.
The Vice-Chancellor & President is not present for any matters that affect their own remuneration.
The University Secretary & Registrar and the Director of People & Culture (or nominee) advise the Committee but are not present for any matters that affect their own remuneration.
The University Secretary & Registrar is the formal secretary to the Committee.
The Director of People & Culture was not a member of the University Executive prior to November 2024.
During 2023-24 the University had a change of Vice Chancellor & President.
Professor Hai-Sui Yu was appointed Interim Vice-Chancellor & President from 1 November 2023 and has led the ongoing implementation of the University’s Strategy 2020-2030: Universal Values, Global Change.
This includes three over-arching areas of Community, Culture, and Impact; supported by an enabling strategy.
The University Strategy is underpinned by a Vision to create a fairer future for all, and agreed institutional Values - Inclusivity, Integrity, Collaboration and Compassion.
The scale and pace of change required in delivery of the strategy is significant if its aims are to be achieved.
The University’s new Vice-Chancellor & President, Professor Shearer West, took up office on 1 November 2024.
During the reporting period, the University has continued to encourage staff to return to on-campus working.
The cost of living crisis, recovery from the impact of industrial action and responding to student protests relating to events in the middle east have also impacted the University and sector.
The University recognises the value of the Committee of University Chairs (CUC) Higher Education Senior Staff Remuneration Code and the Remuneration Committee seeks to ensure compliance with the Code through consistent application of a University Executive Group Reward Framework and Principles which is reviewed at least annually by the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee has direct responsibility for determining remuneration and reward-related matters for the Vice-Chancellor & President and all other members of the University Executive Group.
These are executive positions that report directly to the Chair of Council, the Vice-Chancellor & President or the Provost & Deputy Vice-Chancellor.
For the period of this report the Group consisted of the following:
In addition, the Committee receives updates on remuneration-related matters affecting other groups of staff at the University to enable it to fulfil its responsibility for ensuring that the organisation’s overall framework for remuneration is proportionate, appropriate, and enables the attraction and retention of talented individuals necessary to ensure the delivery of the University’s strategy and its ambitions.
The University of Leeds is a large and complex institution with around 40,000 students and around 10,000 staff and is among the UK’s largest universities.
It has an annual turnover of almost £1bn.
The University is a world top 100 university with a global reputation for excellence in teaching and research and requires high-performing, experienced leaders to continue its success and to meet its strategic ambitions.
When considering matters of remuneration, the Remuneration Committee is required to balance many factors including the performance of the University, the global recruitment market and rates of compensation, the challenging financial circumstances facing universities, external perceptions of senior pay and internal equity factors.
To assist in delivering this balance, the Remuneration Committee considers data from a wide range of sources, including data from relevant HE-sector salary surveys (for both senior staff and Vice-Chancellors), benchmark data from external executive search and reward consultancies, regional data for comparable positions within relevant NHS and Local Authority organisations and data available on national pay trends.
When reviewing salary levels for both the Vice-Chancellor & President and members of the University Executive Group, the Committee applies the principles outlined in the University Executive Reward Framework and Principles.
From August 2023 no members of the Executive remain contractually entitled to the nationally negotiated cost of living award, although in line with the CUC Code, the Committee will consider the nationally negotiated award when undertaking its annual review.
Careful consideration is given to any additional awards for exceptional performance using available external benchmark data and the cost of performance awards across the University’s wider population.
Salary determination at individual level on appointment and thereafter takes account of:
The University does not currently operate a bonus scheme for senior post holders however it is reviewing its approach taking account of benchmarking and specialist external advice.
In line with the approach taken with the wider university staff population, exceptional performance by a member of the Executive, may result in the payment of a non-consolidated, non-pensionable recognition payment.
Senior post holders are eligible to participate in a pension scheme under the same conditions that apply to all University staff.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed its position on payments in lieu of pension supplements during the meetings held in July and November 2023 and February 2024, including consideration of a report and presentation on salary supplements in lieu of pension contributions commissioned from Mercers Higher Education Group.
In evaluating the options and considerations, against the benchmark data, it agreed that salary supplements in lieu of pension scheme contributions should be considered on a case by case basis.
The matter will continue to be reviewed periodically.
The University does not as a rule, offer additional benefits such as private health cover, or car allowance payments as a standard part of the remuneration offer.
The reward packages of all current members of the Executive are in line with this Policy.
The University has policies on External Income and Consultancy that apply equally to all staff.
All senior post holders are required to declare any such income and the Remuneration Committee reviews any payments made and ensures compliance with the related Policy.
There is a published University policy on Expenses for University Executive members.
During 2023-24, the Remuneration Committee held scheduled meetings in September, October and November 2023, and in February and July 2024 to carry out its responsibilities.
In addition, members of the Remuneration Committee were consulted on any changes in the Executive Team including both leavers and new appointments and their remuneration.
The Committee addressed the following standing agenda items:
The office of Vice-Chancellor and President: During 2023/24, the University undertook a rigorous international search and recruitment process for a new Vice-Chancellor & President.
The Remuneration Committee met in September 2023 and agreed appropriate financial payments to the outgoing Vice-Chancellor and President, which are reported in the Financial Statements; and in considering a number of benchmarking information, it then agreed an appropriate indicative (for search purposes) salary range, and subsequently, a final remuneration package for the incoming Vice-Chancellor and President (from 1 November 2024).
Executive Objective Setting and Performance review: Following a successful trial and endorsement from the Remuneration Committee, a new UEG Objective Setting Template was introduced in October 2023.
This was used to set SMART and measurable objectives for the 2023/24 session; aligning with the University Strategy and key performance indicators and underpinned by the UEG Reward Framework and Principles (see below).
The Interim Vice-Chancellor & President presented an update on UEG performance at the February 2024 meeting, prior to providing a full performance assessment which was considered by the Remuneration Committee at its summer meeting.
University Executive Group Reward Framework and Principles: In response to Committee discussions, the Executive Performance Framework was revised and endorsed by the Remuneration Committee for the 2023/24 session.
Using the Objective Setting Template approved at the October 2023 meeting, it was intended that the underpinning Framework would enable performance assessment (by line managers) of UEG members and provide the Remuneration Committee with a clear and consistent way of rewarding executive performance.
Professorial/Senior Staff Performance and Salary Review: The Committee reviewed the annual review process for professorial and senior staff in advance of the 2023/24 cycle of performance and salary review.
Severance and Non-Disclosure Agreements (NDA): At each meeting the Committee receives a report on any Severance NDAs entered into by the University, and as a matter of course the Chair of the Committee is consulted on any such agreements.
University Executive and Senior Management Team Changes: The Committee received updates on progress pertaining to new appointments and gave due consideration to the formal terms relating to them.
In consideration of the annual review of remuneration and reward for Senior post-holders by the Remuneration Committee, institutional performance is relevant to the Committee’s considerations.
The Committee was mindful of the progress made by the University on implementation of the University Strategy during the period 2023/24 against the backdrop of financial challenges impacting the sector.
In line with usual practice, the Interim Vice-Chancellor & President reported to the Remuneration Committee on the performance of their Executive direct reports.
The Chair of Council provided an overview of the Interim Vice-Chancellor & President’s performance and leadership and supplemented the report of the Interim Vice-Chancellor & President on the performance of the University Secretary & Registrar in respect of her statutory and regulatory responsibilities as Secretary to the Council.
The Remuneration Committee agreed salary awards related to its assessment of performance against the set objectives and University values for all members of the University Executive.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed the remuneration package of the Interim Vice-Chancellor & President at its meeting in July 2024.
It reflected on his leadership and the performance of the University since taking up the interim position, and considered feedback gathered by the Chair of Council from members of Council.
The Remuneration Committee concluded that the Interim Vice-Chancellor & President had continued to progress the successful implementation of the University Strategy throughout a period of uncertainty within the University; delivering some significant improvements in community morale, as well as leading on several key initiatives, including NSS and staff engagement.
In considering the benchmark information available, the Committee concluded that the Interim Vice-Chancellor & President be awarded a bonus payment of 6% and a separate salary uplift would apply to Professor Yu’s salary as Provost and Deputy Vice-Chancellor as he returned to that substantive role.
As required, the University has disclosed full remuneration details relating to the post of Vice-Chancellor & President in the Annual Accounts to 31 July 2024.
The emoluments of the Vice-Chancellor and President represent in-year earnings.
The emoluments of the Interim Vice-Chancellor and President represent in-year earnings.
External income: The Vice-Chancellor & President and Interim Vice-Chancellor & President received no external income during the reporting period.
Expenses: The Vice-Chancellor & President (and Interim) complies with the University’s Expenses Policy, and information relating to their latest expenses claims can be found in the Governance section of the University website.
Pay ratios: The Office for Students requires universities to publish two key ratios to show the relationship of the remuneration of the Vice-Chancellor & President to that of staff within the institution.
The methodology adopted is in line with paragraph 12d of the Office for Students Accounts Direction issued in October 2019.
The figures for all staff are as follows:
In the interests of transparency, the University provides two further ratios to show the relationship of the remuneration of the Vice-Chancellor &  President to that of employees within the university (a calculation that excludes individuals who are engaged on worker and/or agency contracts).
The figures for employees are as follows:
In line with the Accounting Standards requirements, the University publishes the basic salary of other higher paid staff (calculated on a full-time equivalent basis).
The data for 2023/24 is prepared in accordance with paragraph 12a of the Office for Students Accounts Direction issued in October 2019.
The requirements have been updated to include both basic salary and market supplements.
In September 2023, the Remuneration Committee met to consider the Vice-Chancellor & President’s decision to leave the University at the end of December 2023 and the remuneration impact associated with this.
In October 2023 the University Council agreed that, to facilitate an effective transition, the Provost and Deputy Vice-Chancellor Professor Hai-Sui Yu, should adopt the role of Interim Vice-Chancellor & President and Accountable Officer with effect from 1 November 2023 and the Remuneration Committee agreed a suitable interim remuneration package to reflect this.
Chair of Remuneration Committee
November 2024

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/about/doc/annual-report-remuneration-committee-2022-23:
This report outlines the responsibilities of the Committee, and its key activities and decisions during the year to 31 July 2023 in accordance with guidance provided by the Committee of University Chairs (CUC).
The Committee reviewed its terms of reference and schedule of meetings during 2022/23.
The annual review of the Terms of Reference is to ensure that they remain appropriate and compliant with relevant legislation, Codes and other current guidelines, and to confirm that the focus of the Committee’s work has addressed these priorities.
The Vice-Chancellor and President, University Secretary and Registrar and the Director of People & Culture Officer (or nominee) are not members of the Committee, but attend as follows:
The Vice-Chancellor and President only attends for agenda items that relate to their role as line manager of Executive members, and to enable the Committee to ensure full consideration of individual performance and organisational strategy when considering remuneration-related decisions.
The Vice-Chancellor and President is not present for any matters that affect their own remuneration.
The University Secretary and Registrar and the Director of People & Culture (or nominee) advise the Committee but are not present for any matters that affect their own remuneration.
The Director of People & Culture is not a member of the University Executive.
During 2022-23 the Vice Chancellor and President has led the ongoing implementation of the University’s Strategy 2020-2030: Universal Values, Global Change.
During the reporting period, the sector and the University has been impacted by challenges in encouraging staff to return to on-campus working, the cost of living crisis and industrial action including a marking and assessment boycott.
The Remuneration Committee has direct responsibility for determining remuneration and reward-related matters for the Vice-Chancellor and President and all other members of the University Executive Group.
These are executive positions that report directly to the Chair of Council, the Vice-Chancellor and President or the Provost and Deputy Vice-Chancellor.
When reviewing salary levels for both the Vice-Chancellor and President and members of the University Executive Group, the Committee applies the principles outlined in the University Executive Reward Framework and Principles.
Following a decision by the Remuneration Committee in May 2014, it is not University policy to make payments in lieu of pension contributions.
This position was confirmed following reconsideration by the Committee in July 2021 of a UCEA sector survey on pension tax policies, and was reaffirmed in March 2022.
The matter is reviewed regularly.
The University does not, as a rule, offer additional benefits such as private health cover, or car allowance payments as a standard part of the remuneration offer.
During 2022-23 the Committee took steps to bring the reward packages of all members of the Executive into line with this Policy.
During 2022-23 the Committee agreed that income received from external sources in relation to non-executive Director positions where these have been approved by the relevant line manager may be retained by the staff member.
The policy on external income would be revised to reflect this.
During 2022-23, the Remuneration Committee held scheduled meetings in October 2022, and in January, March and July 2023 to carry out its responsibilities.
Executive Objective Setting and Performance review: During 2022/23 the Remuneration Committee reviewed the UEG Objectives-Setting and Performance review assessment process and the University Executive Group Reward Framework and Principles and reinforced its expectation for SMART objectives against which the Committee would receive performance reports to inform its remuneration and reward considerations.
It urged the Vice-Chancellor and President to progress the universal adoption across the Executive of the Committee’s approved Objectives Template.
It also noted that all members of the Executive were now participating in 360 exercises following a successful pilot.
University Executive Group Reward Framework and Principles: Completion and approval of the guidelines was reaffirmed at the Spring 2023 meeting following independent input from external reward consultants.
The Committee would commission and receive a further and more detailed report on pensions and rewards options in the Autumn.
This would take account of changes announced in the budget around pension provision and abolition of lifetime allowances.
Severance and Non-Disclosure Agreements (NDA):  At each meeting the Committee receives a report on any Severance NDAs entered into by the University, and as a matter of course the Chair of the Committee is consulted on any such agreements.
The Committee was mindful of the progress made by the University on implementation of the University Strategy during the period 2022/23 against the backdrop of the industrial action and Marking and Assessment Boycott.
In line with usual practice, the Vice-Chancellor and President and the Provost and Deputy Vice-Chancellor reported to the Remuneration Committee on the performance of their respective Executive direct reports.
The Chair of Council provided an overview of the Vice-Chancellor and President’s performance and leadership since her appointment and supplemented the report of the Vice-Chancellor and President on the performance of the University Secretary and Registrar in respect of her statutory and regulatory responsibilities as Secretary to the Council.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed the remuneration package of the Vice-Chancellor and President at its meeting in July 2023.
It reflected on her leadership and the performance of the University over the year, and considered feedback gathered by the Chair of Council from members of Council.
The Remuneration Committee concluded that the Vice-Chancellor and President had continued to progress implementation of the University Strategy through an ongoing period of challenge for the sector, in particular of industrial action and the marking and assessment boycott, which had impacted on her personally and on strategy delivery progress and pace.
Taking into account the benchmark information, the Committee concluded that the Vice-Chancellor’s base salary remained appropriate.
As in previous years, it acknowledged that the University was unusual in having all reward incorporated within a core salary.
The Committee agreed that the Vice-Chancellor and President core salary should rise in line with the UCEA nationally agreed cost of living pay award for 2023 of 5%, which would also be applied to all other members of the Executive from 1 August 2023.
As required, the University has disclosed full details of the Vice-Chancellor’s remuneration in the Annual Accounts to 31 July 2023.
External income: The Vice-Chancellor received no external income during the reporting period.
Expenses: The Vice-Chancellor complies with the University’s Expenses Policy, and information relating to her latest expenses claims can be found in the Governance section of the University website.
Pay ratios: The Office for Students requires universities to publish two key ratios to show the relationship of the remuneration of the Vice-Chancellor to that of staff within the institution.
The methodology adopted is in line with paragraph 12 of the Office for Students Accounts Direction issued October 2019.
In the interests of transparency, the University provides two further ratios to show the relationship of the remuneration of the Vice-Chancellor and President to that of employees within the university (a calculation that excludes individuals who are engaged on worker and/or agency contracts).
In line with the Accounting Standards requirements, the University publishes basic salary of other higher paid staff (calculated on a full-time basis).
The data for 2022/23 is prepared in accordance with paragraph 12 of the Office for Students Accounts Direction issued October 2019.
In September 2023, the Remuneration Committee met to consider the Vice-Chancellor and President’s decision to leave the University at the end of December 2023 and the remuneration impact associated with this.
In October 2023 the University Council agreed that, to facilitate an effective transition, the Provost and Deputy Vice-Chancellor Professor Hai-Sui Yu, should adopt the role of Interim Vice-Chancellor and President and Accountable Officer with effect from 1 November 2023 and the Remuneration Committee agreed a suitable interim remuneration package to reflect this.
The Council has commenced the process of a global search for the new Vice-Chancellor and President of the University of Leeds.
November 2023

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/about/doc/annual-report-remuneration-committee-2021-22:
This report outlines the responsibilities of the Committee, and its key activities and decisions during the year to 31 July 2022, in accordance with guidance provided by the Committee of University Chairs (CUC).
The Committee reviewed its terms of reference and schedule of meetings during 2021; Council was asked to approve updates to the terms of reference, which are as follows:
The annual review of the Terms of Reference is to ensure that they remain appropriate and compliant with relevant legislation and guidelines, and that the focus of the Committee’s work has addressed these priorities.
The Vice-Chancellor, University Secretary and the Chief People & Culture Officer (or nominee) are not members of the Committee, but will attend as follows:
The Vice-Chancellor will attend for agenda items that relate to their role as line manager of Executive members, to enable the Committee to ensure full consideration of individual performance and organisational strategy when considering remuneration- related decisions.
The Vice-Chancellor is not present for any matters that affect their own remuneration.
The University Secretary and the Chief People & Culture Officer (or nominee) will advise the Committee but are not present for any matters that affect their own remuneration.
During 2021-21 the Vice Chancellor has led the move to implementation of the ambitious University strategy 2020-2030: Universal Values, Global Change.
This includes three over-arching areas of Community, Culture, and Impact, which is supported by an enabling strategy underpinned by a vision to create a fairer future for all, Institutional Values - Inclusivity, Integrity, Collaboration and Compassion - and an institutional approach to Equality, Diversity & Inclusion (EDI).
The scale and pace of change required in delivery of the strategy is significant, commencing at a time of challenge across the sector, UK and globally.
The on-going effect as the world emerges from the COVID-19 pandemic has continued to impact and influence the University during this reporting period.
The University of Leeds recognises the value of the CUC’s Higher Education Senior Staff Remuneration Code and the Remuneration Committee seeks to ensure compliance with this Code through consistent application of the University Executive Group Reward Framework and Principles, which are reviewed at least annually by the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee has direct responsibility for determining remuneration-related matters for the Vice-Chancellor and all other members of the University Executive Group.
These are executive posts that report directly to the Vice-Chancellor or the Deputy Vice-Chancellor, and for the period of this report consisted of the following individuals:
In addition, the Committee receives updates on remuneration-related matters affecting other groups of staff at the University of Leeds in order to enable it to fulfil its responsibility for ensuring that the organisation’s overall framework for remuneration is proportionate, appropriate, and enables the attraction and retention of talented individuals necessary to ensure the university meets its strategic ambition.
The University of Leeds is a large, complex, and high-profile institution requiring high- performing, experienced leaders to continue its success and meet its strategic ambitions.
When considering matters of remuneration, the Remuneration Committee is required to balance many factors including market rates of compensation, the challenging financial circumstances facing universities, external perceptions of senior pay, and internal equity factors.
To assist in delivering this balance, the Remuneration Committee considers data from a wide range of sources, including, but not limited to, data from relevant HE-sector salary surveys (for both senior staff and Vice-Chancellors), benchmark data from external reward consultancies, regional data for comparable positions within relevant NHS and Local Authority organisations, and data available on national pay trends.
When reviewing salary levels for both the Vice-Chancellor and University Executive Group, the Committee applies the principles outlined in the UEG Reward Framework Principles document.
Except where individual contractual terms apply, the nationally negotiated pay award does not apply to the University Executive, although the Committee will consider the nationally negotiated cost of living award when undertaking its annual review.
Careful consideration is given to any additional awards for exceptional performance using available external benchmark data and the average percentage cost of performance awards across the University’s wider population.
Salary determination at individual level takes account of:
The University does not formally operate a bonus scheme for senior post holders.
In line with the approach taken with the wider university staff population, exceptional performance may result in the payment of a non-consolidated, non-pensionable recognition payment.
Following a policy decision taken by the Remuneration Committee in May 2014, it is not University policy to make cash payments in lieu of pension contributions.
This position was confirmed following reconsideration by the Committee at its July 2021 meeting in the light of a UCEA sector survey on pension tax policies and again in March 2022.
The University does not as a rule offer additional benefits such as private health cover, or car allowance payments as a standard part of the remuneration offer.
Such benefits are occasionally considered on an individual case basis at the time of appointment and are only agreed if it is deemed necessary.
The University operates a Consultancy Policy that applies equally to all staff.
All senior post holders are obliged to declare any such income.
The Remuneration Committee reviews any payments made and ensures compliance with the Consultancy Policy.
During 2021-22, the Remuneration Committee held scheduled meetings in November 2021, March 2022, June 2022, and July 2022 in order to carry out its responsibilities.
In addition, members of the Remuneration Committee were consulted as appropriate on any changes in the Executive Team including both leavers and new appointments.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed the UEG Objective Setting and Performance review process and approved a new objectives-setting template to strengthen this.
It also received a report on a 360 pilot.
University Executive Group Reward Framework and Principles.
Completion and approval of the guidelines were confirmed at the Autumn 2021 meeting following development with independent input from external reward consultants Korn Ferry Hay.
They are undergoing ongoing further review/refinement in Spring 2023.
Non-Disclosure Agreements.
The Committee agreed that at each meeting it should receive an update on any NDAs entered in to by the University, and that as a matter of course the Chair of the Committee should be advised of any such agreements at the point of action.
University Executive Team Changes.
The Committee received updates on progress as pertaining to new appointments and gave due consideration to the formal terms relating to them.
Given the seniority of the individuals within the coverage of the Remuneration Committee, overall institutional performance is particularly relevant to the consideration of reward.
The Remuneration Committee was mindful of the progress made by the University during the period 2021/22 under the backdrop of the impact of the pandemic and implementation of the University 10-Year Strategy.
In line with usual practice the Vice-Chancellor updated the Remuneration Committee on the performance of each member of the UEG.
In addition, the Chair of Council provided an overview of the Vice-Chancellor’s performance and leadership since her appointment.
The Remuneration Committee assessed the remuneration package of the Vice-Chancellor at its meeting in July 2022.
The Remuneration Committee reflected on the Vice-Chancellor’s performance since taking up post in September 2020 and in the past year, and considered feedback gathered by the Chair of Council from members of Council.
The Remuneration Committee concluded that the Vice-Chancellor was performing at an extremely high level during a period of significant challenge for the HE sector.
Taking into account the benchmark information, the Remuneration Committee agreed that the Vice-Chancellor’s base salary remained appropriate.
No increase was therefore applied.
In doing so it noted that the university was unusual in having all reward incorporated in a core salary.
As required, the University has disclosed full details of the Vice-Chancellor’s remuneration in the Annual Accounts.
The 2020/21 data covers one month when Sir Alan Langlands was in post, and eleven months with the current Vice-Chancellor, Simone Buitendijk, in office with effect from 1 September 2020:
External income: The Vice-Chancellor has received no external income during her tenure to date.
The methodology adopted is in line with paragraph 12 of the Office of Students Accounts Direction issued October 2019.
In the interests of transparency, the University provides two further ratios to show the relationship of the remuneration of the Vice-Chancellor to that of employees within the university (a calculation that excludes individuals who are engaged on worker and/or agency contracts).
The data for 2021/22 is prepared in accordance with paragraph 12 of the Office for Students Accounts Direction issued October 2019.The requirements have been updated to include both basic salary and market supplements.
January 2023

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/about/doc/annual-report-remuneration-committee-2020-21:
This report outlines the responsibilities of the Committee, and its key activities and decisions during the year to 31 July 2021, in accordance with guidance provided by the Committee of University Chairs (CUC).
The Committee reviewed and updated its terms of reference during 2021.
The Council is invited formally to approve the updated terms of reference, which are as follows:
The Committee meets at least twice each year, and arranges additional meetings as appropriate and required.
The Chair of the Remuneration Committee is an independent member of the Council other than the Chair of Council.
The Vice-Chancellor, University Secretary and Director of Human Resources are not members of the Committee, but will attend as follows:
The Vice-Chancellor will attend for agenda items that relate to their role as line manager of Executive members, to enable the Committee to ensure full consideration of individual performance and organisational strategy when considering remuneration-related decisions.
The University Secretary and Director of Human Resources will advise the Committee, but are not present for any matters that affect their own remuneration.
The new Vice Chancellor took up her post on 1 September 2020.
In this reporting period, the strategy was confirmed for the period 2020-2030: Universal Values, Global Change.
This includes three over-arching areas of Community, Culture and Impact, which is supported by an enabling strategy and an institutional approach to Equality, Diversity & Inclusion (EDI).
The on-going global COVID-19 pandemic that took hold in the UK in March 2020 has continued to have an impact, giving an unprecedented shock to the global economy, including the higher education sector.
As well as continuing measures to protect the health, safety and wellbeing of all students and staff, the University has been focused on managing and mitigating the financial and other risks.
The University of Leeds recognises the value of the CUC’s Higher Education Senior Staff Remuneration Code and the Committee seeks to ensure compliance with this Code.
The Code is to be updated in 2021-22, and the committee will benchmark its practice against the new Code.
(Postscript: The revised CUC Code was published in November 2021; no material issues arise for the University).
In addition, the Committee receives updates on remuneration related matters affecting other groups of staff at the University of Leeds in order to enable it to fulfil its responsibility for ensuring that the organisation’s overall framework for remuneration is proportionate, appropriate, and enables the attraction and retention of talented individuals necessary to ensure the university meets its strategic ambition.
The University of Leeds is a large, complex and high profile institution requiring high performing, experienced leaders to continue its success and meet its strategic ambitions.
When considering matters of remuneration, the Committee is required to balance many factors including market rates of compensation, the challenging financial circumstances facing universities, external perceptions of senior pay, and internal equity factors.
To assist in delivering this balance, the Committee considers data from a wide range of sources, including, but not limited to, data from relevant HE sector salary surveys (for both senior staff and vice-chancellors), benchmark data from external reward consultancies, regional data for comparable positions within relevant NHS and Local Authority organisations, and data available on national pay trends.
This position was confirmed following reconsideration by the Committee at its July 2019 meeting in the light of a UCEA sector survey on pension tax policies and again in March 2020.
The University does not as a rule offer additional benefits such as private health cover, or car payments as a standard part of the remuneration offer.
Such benefits are occasionally considered on an individual case basis at the time of appointment, and are only agreed if it is deemed necessary to secure the appointment of the preferred candidate.
During 2020-21, the Committee had scheduled meetings in November 2020, March 2021 and July 2021 in order to carry out its responsibilities.
In addition, members of the Committee were consulted on various changes in the Executive Team including both leavers and new appointments.
Internal Audit Report.
Review of progress against and completion of all the recommendations and actions outlined in the PWC Internal Audit review of the university’s compliance with the Committee of University Chairs HE Senior Staff Remuneration Code, and the related Office for Students Accounts Direction.
Completion and approval of the guidelines confirmed at its autumn 2020 meeting following development with independent input from external reward consultants Korn Ferry Hay.
The Committee agreed that they should receive an annual update on any NDAs entered in to by the University, and that as a matter of course the Chair of the Committee should be advised of any such agreements at the point of action.
The Committee met on several occasions to receive updates on the progress pertaining to new appointments and to give due consideration to the formal terms relating to them.
COVID-19 Pandemic.
The Committee was updated on the University’s continued use of the Governments Coronavirus Job Retention Scheme (often referred to as the Furlough Scheme) and of the decision to maintain the pay of affected staff during the initial round of furloughing at 100%.
The Committee were mindful of the progress made by the University during the period 2020/21 under the backdrop of the COVID-19 pandemic and the launch of the new University 10-Year Strategy.
Discussions relating to senior pay focused on the financial challenges that the University faces, the need for the Committee to maintain the motivation levels of senior staff against the backdrop of a potentially long running period of significant disruption and the reputational considerations.
Following thorough discussion, it was agreed that, save in one case, the existing salary levels remained appropriate and competitive, and therefore that no annual award should be applied.
Members of the UEG with a contractual entitlement to receive the nationally negotiated annual award would be asked to agree to a change in their contractual terms to remove this entitlement.
In line with usual practice the Vice Chancellor updated the Committee on the performance of each member of the UEG.
In addition, the Pro Chancellor provided an overview of the Vice-Chancellor’s performance and leadership since her appointment.
The Committee reflected on the Vice-Chancellor’s performance since taking up post in September 2020 and considered feedback gathered by the Chair of Council from members of Council, the Vice-Chancellor’s direct reports, and some other members of the University community alongside the ambitious University Strategy.
The Committee concluded that the Vice-Chancellor was performing at an extremely high level during a period of significant challenge for the HE sector.
Taking into account the external environment, the CUC Higher Education Senior Staff Remuneration Code, and the policy for the remuneration of senior staff at the University of Leeds, the Remuneration Committee agreed that the Vice-Chancellor’s current remuneration package remained appropriate.
The 2019/20 data relates to the exiting Vice-Chancellor, Sir Alan Langlands, and the 2020/21 data covers one month when Sir Alan Langlands was in post, and eleven months with the current Vice-Chancellor, Simone Buitendijk, in office with effect from 1 September 2020:
In line with the Accounting Standards requirements, the University publishes basic salary of other higher paid staff (calculated on a full time basis).
The data for 2018/19 is prepared in accordance with paragraph 12 of the Office for Students Accounts Direction issued October 2019.The requirements have been updated to include both basic salary and market supplements.
January 2022

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/about/doc/annual-report-remuneration-committee-2019-20:
The Remuneration Committee is a formal sub-committee of the University Council.
This report outlines the responsibilities of the Committee, and its key activities and decisions during the year to 31 July 2020 and reflects guidance provided by the Committee of University Chairs (CUC).
The work of the Committee was somewhat unusual during this period, and did not follow the more usual annual pattern due to two major factors:
The business of the Committee was restricted to urgent matters only and this report reflects that focus.
The terms of reference were reviewed by the Committee during 2020 as required and remained unchanged.
They are as follows:
The annual review of the terms of reference is designed to ensure that they remain appropriate and compliant with relevant legislation and guidelines, and to ensure that the focus of the Committee’s work has addressed these priorities.
The Committee meets at least twice per year, but will arrange for additional meetings as appropriate.
The membership of the Committee consists of five lay members of Council, and for the period of this report, was as follows:
The Vice-Chancellor and the Director of Human Resources are not members of the Committee, but will attend as follows:
The Vice-Chancellor will attend for agenda items that relate to their role as line manager of the senior post holders, to enable the Committee to ensure full consideration of individual performance and organisational strategy when considering remuneration-related decisions.
The Director of Human Resources is an advisor to the Committee, but is not present for any matters that affect their own remuneration.
The Committee can, if they so wish, call upon external advisors as appropriate.
This year marked the end of the 2015-20 strategic plan period for the University but the year has been somewhat overshadowed by the global COVID-19 pandemic which took hold in the UK in March 2020.
The pandemic has given an unprecedented shock to the global economy, and the higher education sector has not been immune to this.
As well as taking measures to protect the health, safety and wellbeing of all students and staff, the University was decisive in its financial response in order to protect as much as possible and mitigate the significant financial risks.
The immediate response from a financial perspective focused on prioritising efforts to maximise the student recruitment outcome for 2020 entry; investing as needed to support the response to the COVID-19 pandemic, both in terms of delivering high quality online education and enabling remote working at scale; and implementing cost saving actions.
The cost saving mitigations which were introduced from the end of March 2020 included a pause or deferral of new staff recruitment and new non-staff expenditure commitments (unless critical to support our response to COVID-19), as well as pausing or deferring any new capital commitments that may have been in the pipeline.
This decisive financial response allowed the University to report an underlying operating surplus in 2019-20 of £22m (before the movement in the USS provision) representing 3% of total income.
This surplus is lower than the equivalent prior year operating surplus of £38m and has been adversely impacted by reduced residences and research income as well as unplanned costs to support the pandemic response.
In exceptional circumstances where compliance cannot be delivered, the Committee commits to providing meaningful explanations for non-compliance along with details of how any alternative arrangements meet the principles of the Code.
The Remuneration Committee has direct responsibility for determining remuneration related matters for both the Vice-Chancellor and for senior post holders at the University of Leeds.
These are executive posts that report directly to the Vice-Chancellor, and for the period of this report consist of the following individuals:
In addition, the Committee receives updates on remuneration related matters affecting other groups of staff at the University of Leeds in order to enable it to fulfil its responsibility for ensuring that the organisation’s overall framework for remuneration is proportionate, appropriate, and enables the attraction and retention of talented individuals necessary to ensure the University meets its strategic ambition.
When considering matters of remuneration, the Committee is required to balance many factors including market rates of compensation, the challenging financial circumstances facing universities, the external perceptions of senior pay, and internal equity factors.
To assist in delivering this balance, the Committee consider data from a wide range of sources, including, but not limited to, data from relevant Higher Education (HE) sector salary surveys, (for both senior staff and Vice-Chancellors), benchmark data from external reward consultancies, regional data for comparable positions within relevant NHS and Local Authority organisations, and data available on national pay trends.
When reviewing salary levels for both the Vice-Chancellor and senior post holders, the Committee will be particularly mindful of the salary review principles being applied across the rest of the institution.
This will include consideration of the anticipated cost of the nationally negotiated cost of living award, and the average percentage increase for incremental progression across university pay scales.
Any additional awards made for exceptional performance are carefully considered against data available for the average percentage cost of performance awards across the University’s wider population.
Salary determination at individual level will take account of:
Senior post holders are eligible to participate in a pension scheme under the same conditions that apply to all University staff.
This position was reconfirmed following reconsideration by the Committee at its July 2019 meeting in the light of a University and Colleges Employers Association (UCEA) sector survey on pension tax policies.
It was agreed the matter would be kept under regular review.
The University does not offer additional benefits such as private health cover, or car payments as a standard part of the remuneration offer.
On rare occasions, decisions relating to the need to offer any such benefits are considered on an individual case basis at the time of appointment, and are only made if it is considered necessary to secure the appointment of the University’s preferred candidate.
All senior post holders are obliged to declare any such income and the Remuneration Committee reviews any payments made, and ensures compliance with the Consultancy Policy.
Senior post holders are expected to comply with the University’s current policy on Expenses .
During 2019-20, the Committee met in April 2020 and July 2020 in order to carry out its responsibilities in a timely manner.
The March 2020 meeting was cancelled due to pressures arising from the COVID-19 pandemic.
In addition, the Committee held a number of exceptional meetings during the period (September 2019 and January 2020) of the formal recruitment process for the new Vice-Chancellor.
PWC, the University’s internal auditors, had completed their audit of the University’s compliance with the Committee of University Chairs HE Senior Staff Remuneration Code, and the related Office for Students Accounts Direction.
The Committee noted that the report was positive and that the small number of recommendations were being implemented, albeit to a revised timescale given the impact of COVID-19 on the HR team.
The Committee received an update on the ongoing work with Korn Ferry Hay (external reward consultants) relating to the development of a Remuneration Framework for University Executive leadership roles.
The Committee discussed the types of principles they would expect to see in a resultant University Executive Reward Framework and Principles approach and requested that, resource constraints allowing, the University should finalise this work by end of 2020-21.
It was agreed that this would require the presentation of the draft document to the Remuneration Committee at its autumn 2020 meeting.
The Committee agreed that they should receive an annual update on any non-disclosure agreements entered in to by the University, and that, as a matter of course, the Chair of the Committee should be advised of any such agreements at the point of action.
The Committee met on several occasions to receive updates on the progress of the Appointing Committee for the new Vice-Chancellor, and to give consideration to the formal terms and conditions relating to the appointment.
This involved the procurement of legal advice to ensure that the contractual terms of employment were robust and compliant with all areas of current legislation; a review of the remuneration packages of a wide range of Vice-Chancellors across the sector; and a reiteration of the University’s existing (and continuing) policy on various elements within the remuneration package, specifically in relation to pension provision and additional benefits.
The Committee also gave consideration to the fact that the existing post holder had taken only one salary increase since 2013, and that the Vice-Chancellor salary level at the University of Leeds may therefore have become uncompetitive.
The Committee was updated on the University’s decision to use the Government’s Coronavirus Job Retention Scheme (often referred to as the Furlough Scheme) and of the decision to maintain the pay of affected staff during the initial round of furloughing at 100%.
Given the seniority of the individuals within the coverage of the Remuneration Committee, overall institutional performance is considered particularly relevant to the consideration of reward.
The Committee were therefore mindful of the progress made by the University during the period 2019-20, as articulated in section B above.
However, given the exceptional circumstances impacting the sector as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, discussions relating to senior pay focused on the financial challenges that the University was facing and the need for the Committee to maintain the motivation levels of senior staff against the backdrop of a potentially long running period of significant disruption.
The Committee were particularly mindful of the principle of equity across all roles at the University, and to be mindful of the approach being taken to staff across the University when considering senior pay.
Following a full discussion across two Remuneration Committee meetings, it was agreed that members of the University Executive Group and the Vice-Chancellor would not be asked to take a reduction in pay, but would be asked to accept a pay freeze for the current year.
This was considered to be appropriate in view of the fact that the University had chosen to maintain the pay of furloughed staff at 100% and against the backdrop of the national proposal for a pay freeze.
The Committee reserved its right to reconsider this position, should the initial approach to pay for the rest of the staff base be revised.
In line with usual practice the Vice-Chancellor updated the Committee on the performance of each member of the University Executive Group.
In addition, the Pro-Chancellor provided an overview of the Vice-Chancellor’s outstanding performance and leadership over the previous 12 months, and across the rest of his tenure.
In the light of the fact that the Vice-Chancellor was leaving the University at the end of August 2020, there was no requirement for the Committee to consider the salary level of the exiting Vice-Chancellor.
Discussions relating to the salary level for the incoming Vice-Chancellor had been held earlier in the year, and the new post holder would be entitled to the first review of salary at August 2021.
All data presented relate to the exiting Vice-Chancellor, Sir Alan Langlands:
Whilst the Vice-Chancellor holds a number of external appointments, he receives no income from any of these positions.
The Vice-Chancellor complies with the University’s Expenses Policy, and information relating to his latest expenses claims can be found in the Governance section of the University website .
The Office for Students requires universities to publish two key ratios to show the relationship of the remuneration of the Vice-Chancellor to that of staff within the institution.
The University chose to adopt these revised guidelines early and as such has restated the previous year’s ratios to enable comparison.
The figures are as follows:
Year
In the interests of transparency, the University provides two further ratios to show the relationship of the remuneration of the Vice-Chancellor to that of employees within the University (a calculation that excludes those individuals who are engaged on worker and/or agency contracts).
The data for 2018-19 is prepared in accordance with paragraph 12 of the Office for Students Accounts Direction issued October 2019.The requirements have been updated to include both basic salary and market supplements.
February 2021

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/about/doc/annual-report-remuneration-committee-2018-19:
This report outlines the responsibilities of the Committee, and its key activities and decisions during the year to 31 July 2019, and reflects guidance provided by the Committee of University Chairs (CUC).
The Remuneration Committee has previously provided annual reports of its activities and decisions to Council, and continues to work to develop its remit and to enhance this report in line with the guidance in the Higher Education Senior Staff Remuneration Code, and the observations of the Office for Students’ Compliance with the 2017-18 accounts direction report.
The period 2018/19 saw the University of Leeds face on-going challenges that continued across the sector, including uncertainties about student funding policy, concerns about the sustainability of the Universities Superannuation Scheme (USS), and a lack of clarity surrounding Brexit and immigration policy – all issues of very direct and strategic relevance to Leeds.
Despite these pressures the University continued to make progress against its core mission to create knowledge and opportunity through the pursuit of excellence in student education, and globally recognised research.
Following the Gold award under the Teaching Excellence Framework in 2017, the University continues to be ranked highly across more recent external measures, being placed in the top 3 for teaching quality, the top 5 in the Russell Group for student satisfaction, and remains one of the universities most targeted by leading employers.
Strong progress continues across the research portfolio, with the University ranked in the top 10 of UK Universities receiving research council funding, with a leading position with the National Environment Research Council, and the Arts and Humanities Research Council.
New research awards totalled £196 million in 2018-19, an increase of 48% since 2013-14.
The University’s commitment to continued collaboration with business led to the opening of Nexus, a £40 million facility to connect businesses to our research and expertise.
In 2019, the University maintained its place as a top 100 university in the QS world rankings and has seen a 35% increase in non EU students over the past two years to 9,000, and more than 50% of research publications are now the result of international collaborations.
The University of Leeds recognises the value of The Higher Education Senior Staff Remuneration Code and the Committee seeks to ensure compliance with this Code.
These are executive posts that report directly to the Vice-Chancellor, and for the period of this report, consist of the following individuals:
Any additional awards made for exceptional performance, are carefully considered against data available for the average percentage cost of performance awards across the University’s wider population.
Senior post holders are eligible to participate in a pension fund under the same conditions that apply to all University staff.
During 2018/19, the Committee met in September 2018, March 2019 and July 2019, in order to carry out its responsibilities in a timely manner.
The Committee addressed a number of standing agenda items as follows:
The Committee discussed a number of ongoing significant items throughout the year relating to the remuneration framework for senior post holders, and to the implications of the CUC Higher Education Senior Staff Remuneration Code and the Office for Students Accounts Direction.
The Committee restated its support for the Code.
The Committee reaffirmed its initial priorities in this regard as follows:
PwC, the University’s internal auditors, carried out a desktop audit to consider the University’s compliance with the Committee of University Chairs HE Senior Staff Remuneration Code, and the related Office for Students Accounts Direction.
The auditors had found remuneration governance to be of a high standard and the report was circulated to members on completion.
The Committee was advised that the report received from Korn Ferry Hay (external reward consultants) relating to a revised approach to job evaluation and salary scales for senior post holders was being updated to reflect the impending changes within the University Executive Group and associated organisational structure.
This work will be progressed by the Committee and is expected to now reach a conclusion during 2020.
The resultant framework is being designed to ensure that remuneration packages are market-competitive, proportionate to the size of the role, and allow for the rewarding of strong performance.
The framework and associated pay policy will assist the University in ensuring that it is able to attract and retain the appropriate senior level talent needed to ensure the university’s success, but that it pays no more than is necessary and defensible in all circumstances.
The committee was kept up to date on the recruitment to the Executive Dean roles of Leeds University Business School, of the Faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences and of the Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Cultures.
The Committee formally authorised the remuneration packages relating to these appointments and noted that despite the size of the roles and significant market pressures, the resultant salary offers had been kept at a prudent level.
The Committee were therefore mindful of the progress made by the University during the period 2018/19, as articulated in section B above.
Following input from the Vice-Chancellor, the Committee considered the performance of all senior post holders over the previous year.
Having given subsequent consideration to the relevant salary data, it was determined that all members were remunerated appropriately and that no salary increases would be made beyond that of the nationally negotiated pay increase of 1.8%.
Six senior post holders hold external positions or participate in consultancy which generates additional income of greater than £1,000 per annum.
The Committee reviewed the payments and was satisfied that they complied with the University’s current policy on such matters.
The Chair of Council provided feedback on the performance of the Vice-Chancellor.
This process had involved gathering feedback via individual meetings with all the members of the UEG and soundings from members of Council.
The Committee also considered the University’s performance against the declared strategic KPIs, the Vice-Chancellor’s performance against his personal objectives, and the Vice-Chancellor’s remuneration package against comparator data.
This data included remuneration packages of Vice-Chancellors across Russell Group Universities of comparable size and complexity, plus roles across both public sector (local authority) and NHS positions.
Performance (both organisational and individual) was considered across a wide range of objectives including all items in the Strategic Plan Oversight Report, all statutory duties as Accounting Officer, and a range of other objectives including (but not limited to):
The Committee concluded that the Vice-Chancellor was performing at an extremely high level, and providing outstanding leadership to the university during what is a very difficult period, driven by the wide range of external factors impacting the sector.
The Committee expressed concern that given the size, complexity and strong performance of the University, the Vice-Chancellor’s remuneration relative to the comparator set, may present challenges when looking to attract a candidate of appropriate quality in the future.
Having given consideration to all the data, and the Vice-Chancellor’s specific request that he received no increase, the Committee agreed that his salary would again remain unchanged.
The Committee noted that since the current Vice-Chancellor took up his role in 2013, he had accepted only one salary increase (in 2016) which was in line with the nationally negotiated settlement for all staff for that year.
Whilst the Vice-Chancellor holds a number of external appointments , he receives no income from any of these positions.
The Vice-Chancellor complies with the University’s Expenses Policy.
Please see information relating to Vice-Chancellor expenses .
The University chose to adopt these revised guidelines early and as such has restated previous year’s ratios to enable comparison.
Every effort has been made to report the ratios for all types of staff, including agency and short-term assignments (atypical staff) on an Full Time Equivalent (FTE) basis, but it has not been possible to fully comply due to some incomplete data for some atypical staff and not therefore being able to calculate accurate FTE information.
The sector benchmark is not available at the current time.
In the interests of transparency, the University provides two further ratios to show the relationship of the remuneration of the Vice-Chancellor to that of employees within the university (a calculation that excludes those individuals who are engaged on worker and/or agency contracts).
The data for 2018/19 is prepared in accordance with paragraph 12 of the Office for Students Accounts Direction issued October 2019, adopting the provisions within paragraph 6.
Of the roles covered within this table, more than 80% are Professors and Clinical academics.
David Gray Pro-Chancellor and member of the Remuneration Committee March 2020

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/about/doc/annual-report-remuneration-committee-2017-18:
This report outlines the responsibilities of the Committee, and its key activities and decisions during the year to 31 July 2018, and reflects new guidance provided by the Committee of University Chairs (CUC).
The Remuneration Committee has previously provided annual reports of its activities and decisions to Council, and is now working to develop its remit and to enhance this report in line with the guidance in the Higher Education Senior Staff Remuneration Code.
The annual review of the Terms of Reference is designed to ensure that they remain appropriate and compliant with relevant legislation and guidelines, and to ensure that the focus of the Committee’s work has addressed these priorities.
The membership of the Committee consists of five lay members of Council, and are for the period of this report, as follows:
The Vice-Chancellor will attend for agenda items that relate to his role as line manager of the senior post holders, to enable the Committee to ensure full consideration of individual performance and organisational strategy when considering remuneration-related decisions.
The Vice-Chancellor is not present for any matters that affect his own remuneration.
The Director of Human Resources is an advisor to the Committee, but is not present for any matters that affect her own remuneration.
The period 2017/18 saw the University of Leeds face many new challenges that emerged across the sector, including uncertainties about student funding policy, concerns about the sustainability of the Universities Superannuation Scheme (USS), and a lack of clarity surrounding Brexit and immigration policy – all issues of very direct and strategic relevance to Leeds.
In the field of student education, examples of progress included the University receiving a Gold rating in the Teaching Excellence Framework, being placed in the top 10 of the Good University Guide and The Guardian University Guide, achieving third place in the Times Higher Education (THE) Student Experience Survey, whilst also maintaining our leading position amongst Russell Group universities in the National Student Survey (NSS).
Progress was also made across the University’s research and innovation activities.
The University received more than a thousand new awards with a value of £175m, a 20% increase over the past 2 years.
The University was ranked in the top 3 in the UK for winning research grants to tackle global challenges, with £36m awarded from the Global Challenges Research Fund and the Newton Fund.
A Times Higher Education analysis published during the year showed the University of Leeds as having the highest percentage increase in success rate for research council awards amongst top ranked universities.
In addition, the systematic and planned approach to international activities led to the University being named one of the world’s top 100 universities in the QS World Rankings for 2018, and rose 103 places to 47th in the rankings of the world’s most international universities.
To assist in delivering this balance, the Committee consider data from a wide range of sources, including, but not limited to, data from relevant HE sector salary surveys, (for both senior staff and Vice-Chancellors), benchmark data from external reward consultancies, regional data for comparable positions within relevant NHS and Local Authority organisations, and data available on national pay trends.
In line with the approach taken with the wider university staff population, exceptional performance may result in the payment of a non-consolidated, non-pensionable payment.
During 2017/18, the Committee met regularly throughout the year in order to carry out its responsibilities in a timely manner.
The Committee discussed a number of significant items throughout the year relating to proposals to review the remuneration framework for senior post holders, and to the implications of the CUC Higher Education Senior Staff Remuneration Code and the Office for Students Accounts Direction.
The Committee received a report from Korn Ferry Hay (external reward consultants) proposing a revised approach to job evaluation and salary scales for senior post holders.
This work will continue to be progressed by the Committee and is expected to reach a conclusion during early 2018/19.
The resultant framework will be designed to ensure that remuneration packages are market-competitive, proportionate to the size of the role, and allow for the rewarding of strong performance.
The Committee considered the implications of both documents (in the case of the CUC Code, both the initial draft document, and the resultant final version), and reviewed the current approach and practice of the Remuneration Committee against the finalised guidance.
The Committee supports the Code and agreed to work rapidly towards compliance with it.
The Committee determined that its initial priorities in this regard would be as follows:
The Committee were therefore mindful of the progress made by the University during the period 2017/18, as articulated in section B above.
Having given subsequent consideration to the relevant salary data, it was determined that all members were remunerated appropriately and that no salary increases would be made beyond that of the nationally negotiated pay increase (which, at the point of meeting, was expected to be 2%).
Seven senior post holders hold external positions or participate in consultancy which generates additional income of greater than £1,000 per annum.
This process had involved gathering feedback via individual meetings with the majority of members of the Council, and with the Vice-Chancellor’s direct reports.
The Committee was and is concerned that given the size, complexity and strong performance of the University, the Vice-Chancellor’s remuneration is low relative to the comparator set, and that the current remuneration level would be unlikely to attract a candidate of such high quality in the future.
Having given consideration to all the data, and the Vice-Chancellor’s specific request that he received no increase, the Committee agreed that his salary would remain unchanged.
Please see information relating to Vice-Chancellor expenses .
The methodology (as determined by the Office of Students) requires the University to show the relationship of the remuneration of the Vice-Chancellor to that of staff within the institution, and is structured to include not only all employees, but also all other workers and agency staff who have undertaken work at the university during the relevant 12 month period.
The Vice-Chancellor’s basic and total remuneration, is compared to the median figures for the staff population, where the median pay is calculated on a full time equivalent basis for the salaries provided by the University to its staff.
Quentin Woodley Chair of Remuneration Committee November 2018

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/about/doc/animal-research:
The University of Leeds carries out research using animals mainly to improve the health and welfare of human beings and animals, but also in some circumstances to provide a better understanding of the animals themselves.
The University uses animals only when there are no alternatives, and is firmly committed to the replacement, reduction and refinement of the use of animals in research (the 3Rs).
Before any research can be undertaken which may cause animals pain, suffering, distress or lasting harm, it requires the approval of the University’s Animal Welfare and Ethical Review Committee (AWERC), and also approval from the Home Office under the Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986.
You can read the minutes of the AWERC and its annual reports to the University Council (the governing body) on the AWERC page .
View our information on the number of animals used in scientific procedures at Leeds (PDF) .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/structure-governance/doc/adoption-independent-review-university-spin-companies-recommendations:
We have a strong track record in spin-out creation, with a current portfolio of approximately 40 companies that employ more than 1,425 people, have a combined turnover of more than of £137m and have attracted over £51m of new investment in 2023/24.
To further enhance our activities, we have undertaken considerable work to streamline and improve our spin-out processes.
Our approach aims to provide significant support and resources to enable our entrepreneurial founders to create high quality investable opportunities and secure appropriate investment to build and scale their businesses.
From 1 August 2024, we have further reduced the founder equity that we hold in spin-out companies, reducing this from 30% to a 20% shareholding in our IP-rich spin-outs and 10% for less IP-intensive spin-outs.
The balance of the initial equity, 80% to 90%, is deployed to reward and incentivise academic and management founders.
We are committed to playing a pivotal role in the development of our innovation ecosystem and maximise our contribution to the vitality and prosperity of our region.
Significant developments include Nexus , our £40m investment to build a community of innovators from across business, technology and academia and the establishment of Northern Gritstone , an independent investment company focused on university spinouts and IP-rich businesses that has created a step change in the North of England investment landscape.
Our policies and practices fully align with the review of university spin-out companies recommendations and we will continue to proactively review our activities to ensure future alignment with best practice.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-applying/doc/degree-outcomes-statement:
This statement provides an overview of the University’s classification profile over the last five years.
It is set out in accordance with guidance issued by the UK Standing Committee for Quality Assessment (UKSCQA) that expects universities in England and Wales to periodically publish details of their undergraduate degree classification profiles and any developments resulting from internal institutional review.
Universities UK also made a commitment to this approach in an announcement published in July 2022.
This statement replaces the University’s previous Degree Outcome Statement that was published in 2020, and provides the undergraduate classification profile relating to the years 2017/18 to 2021/22.
The statement reports on all Undergraduate (FHEQ 6) and Integrated Masters (FHEQ 7) awards.
Over this period of time the University has seen an increase in the proportion of ‘good degrees’ awarded (2:1s and 1s), with a particularly marked increase in the proportion of 1s awarded in 2019/20 and 2020/21.
The profile for these years was affected by special measures introduced by the University to ensure that students were not unfairly disadvantaged by impact of the global pandemic.
The University works to a common set of Ordinances and Regulations, supplemented by Rules for Award (PDF) that apply to all taught provision, ensuring consistent requirements across the University.
This approach is summarised for students in each school’s Code of Practice for Assessment that conforms to a University specified template.
A common classification system was introduced in 2000 and has remained unchanged, apart from the removal of 20-90 marking scale from 2018/19 (formerly this entailed translation of marks on 20-90 and 0-100 scales to a common classification grade; outcomes using the historic translation and current 0-100 averages were compared by student and cohort).
The degree class for Bachelor’s degrees with classified honours is currently determined according to the better of 1:1 or 1:2 weighting of grades between programme year 2 and 3 (for FHEQ levels 5 and 6) respectively and equivalent weightings for degree programmes of other durations.
All marks are returned on a 0-100 scale, with year averages calculated accordingly.
The University mitigated the potential adverse impact of the pandemic through the approval of exceptional measures.
The normal regulations applied, alongside the mitigation of removing results returned within 2019/20 from the calculation (using a 0:1 weighting or equivalent ratio) or by applying a prevailing classification average that excluded numerical marks returned for semester 2 2019/20.
Whilst the impact of these measures can be seen within the classification profile reported, external examiners confirmed the appropriateness and fairness of the approach that we took.
A revised classification algorithm is being implemented for undergraduate students commencing their studies in 2022/23.
The approach has been simplified to improve transparency for students and staff, and to ensure alignment with the UKSCQA Principles for Effective Degree Algorithm Design.
The revised approach includes: use of decile boundaries; use of raw module marks; the sole use of a 1:2 weighting (for FHEQ levels 5 and 6) for classification of 3 year undergraduate degrees (and equivalent weightings for degree programmes of other durations), and; the removal of discretionary consideration for borderline outcomes.
The University’s Quality and Standards Committee, reporting to the Taught Student Education Board, has oversight of the University’s regulatory framework for quality, standards and assessment.
An overview of analysis and resultant action is reported to the University’s Senate and Council through the annual Student Education Summary Statement, which includes consideration of degree outcomes over time.
Classification trends are also routinely considered at school and faculty Taught Student Education Committees, with an expectation that any actions required in the light of this consideration are incorporated within school action plans.
The institutional template for school Codes of Practice on Assessment specifies the approach to be taken in relation to the marking and moderation of assessments.
Assessment, Progression and Award Boards operate on a school-by-school basis on the delegated authority of the Senate to institutionally specified terms of reference.
The University’s small number of collaborative provision arrangements are aligned to a School Assessment Board and all awards are ratified within the University.
The University has committed to excellence in student education and has invested substantially in the academic and physical infrastructure, including continued support for professional development and excellence in teaching, substantial digital investments supporting learning and teaching practices.
In the autumn of 2021 we implemented a new institution-wide Assessment Strategy to ensure that our approach to assessment is:
As part of our Curriculum Redefined Project we have commenced on a 10 year University-wide project (from 2021) to review and refresh all our taught programmes, and will ensure the effective implementation of our assessment strategy as part of this undertaking.
We have also implemented an Access and Student Success Strategy 2025 (PDF) which works across the full student lifecycle, through: Access, Continuation, Attainment and Progression.
This strategy identifies and seeks to address a number of areas of differential attainment between student groups, particularly between students from under-represented backgrounds and their more well-represented peers.
The approach to the implementation of this strategy has been data-led, investigating degree awarding gaps in detail to understand the factors contributing to these gaps and ensure that our interventions are appropriately contextualised, targeted and proportional.
We continue to reflect on our approach to assessment design and means by which we ensure and uphold the standards of our awards via the appropriate calibration of standards.
We are committed to returning to a more normalised profile of classification following the period disrupted by the pandemic.
To achieve this, concluded and current ongoing activities include:

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/about/doc/graduate-outcomes:
This page provides a summary of what our graduates went on to do after graduating; whether they went on to employment and if so, what they were earning, or whether they went on to further study.
The data is gathered through an annual national survey carried out 15 months after our students graduate.
Data is displayed as an average across all students interviewed – UK and international undergraduate, taught postgraduate and postgraduate researchers – unless stated otherwise.
Percentages are rounded to the nearest decimal point.
Last updated: 21 February 2023
4.2% of Leeds graduates eligible for work were unemployed, down 0.8% on the year before.
82.8% of the 3,107 graduates in employment were in professional or managerial level roles, down 1.1% on the year before.
Of all graduates:
18.7% of Leeds graduates went on to do further study, up 0.5% on the year before.
Of those:

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/about/doc/transparency-data:
This page shows the number of University of Leeds students who attained a particular degree or other academic award, or a particular level of such an award, when they completed their course with us.
The University is required by the Office for Students (OfS) to provide this data.
It also shows these numbers by reference to:
You can view the data in accessible format in the tables included on this page or download the full transparency data return for 2023 (Excel format) .
The data contained in tables 1a and 1b have been rounded and suppressed as follows:
Provider: The University of Leeds
UKPRN (UK Provider Reference Number) : 10007795
For people using assistive technologies: in the following table, every cell in the rows for Asian, Black, mixed, other and unknown ethnicities shows an 'N', meaning there were 24 or fewer students in this population.
Only the row for White ethnicity contains data.
For people using assistive technologies: in the following table, every cell (in rows EIMD quintiles 1-5, not applicable and unknown) shows an 'N', meaning there were 24 or fewer students in this population.
For people using assistive technologies: in the following table, every cell in rows Male and other shows an 'N', meaning there were 24 or fewer students in this population.
The headcount of unclassified First Degrees awarded to Females is suppressed due to data protection.
Percentage of classified First Degrees awarded as third class / pass for White ethnicity is suppressed for data protection.
In every row, the headcount of unclassified First Degrees awarded is not applicable as there were no qualifiers at this mode and level.
For people using assistive technologies: in the following table, every cell for all EIMD quintiles shows an 'N', meaning there were 24 or fewer students in this population, except for the headcount of unclassified First Degrees awarded which is not applicable as there were no qualifiers at this mode and level.
For people using assistive technologies: in the following table, every cell for female, male and other shows 'N/A', meaning there were no qualifiers at this mode and level.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/student-success/doc/access-student-success-strategy:
Find out what progress we are making towards a fairer university through our Access and Student Success Strategy 2020 to 2025 (PDF) .
Read our Access and Student Success Annual Report 2022 to 2023 (accessible PDF, 6MB) to find out how much progress we made against the Strategy in the 2022/23 academic year.
Video transcript: Introductory video – Access
Video transcript: Progression between years
Video transcript: Progression beyond HE
Video transcript: Introductory video – Enablers
Find out how we're improving access and success and how much progress we're making against our targets.
Read about some of our projects and initiatives including students' experiences.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/about/doc/access-participation-plan:
Summary of Access and Participation Plan 2024–25 to 2027–28
Access and Participation Plan 2024-25 to 2027-28 (Download DOCX 111.41 KB)
Fee Information Summary 2025-26 (Download PDF 24.68 KB)
Summary of Access and Participation Plan 2020-21 to 2024-25 (Download DOCX 39.79 KB)
Access and Participation Plan 2020-21 to 2024-25 (Download DOCX 428.71 KB)
If you need older access and participation plans or further information, please email Tristan McKenna, Senior Project Manager – Access and Student Success, at t.mckenna@leeds.ac.uk or email the Office for Students at digitalpublishing@officeforstudents.org.uk .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/about/doc/university-sanctuary-commitment-supporting-student-sanctuary-seekers:
The University of Leeds is proud to be an accredited University of Sanctuary , awarded by City of Sanctuary UK , a nationally coordinated network of organisations and services that welcome and support refugees and people seeking asylum.
We have supported asylum seekers and forced migrants in accessing education since 2018, with more than 30 students able to find sanctuary at Leeds through our Sanctuary Scholarships .
We are the first university in the Leeds City Region to be accredited with the award, a formal recognition of the impact of our initiatives that welcome sanctuary seekers, including sanctuary scholars and at-risk academics.
This recognition honours the compassion, commitment, and collaborative spirit of our entire community, whose tireless efforts have created a welcoming and supportive environment for sanctuary scholars and at-risk academics.
Vice Chancellor and President Professor Shearer West
University of Sanctuary accreditation celebrates the good practice of universities that promote a culture of welcome for sanctuary seekers within and beyond their campuses.
There are more than 40 Universities of Sanctuary across the UK, and we work with other higher education institutions as places of safety for those who’ve been forcibly displaced.
Our University of Sanctuary status aligns with the University of Leeds Strategy 2020-2030 , highlighting our commitment to global equity and inclusion, and reflecting the University values of collaboration, compassion, inclusivity and integrity.
We are a proud member of the Leeds City of Sanctuary Steering Group.
We work with our local community through our partnerships with Leeds City Council and third-sector organisations, our cultural resources, and outreach and support for local refugees and asylum seekers pursuing higher education.
The University provides up to five scholarships a year to forcibly displaced students already in the UK.
We’re proud to have awarded 31 Sanctuary Scholarships to date.
"My experience at the University of Leeds has shown me the true value of a supportive and inclusive community.
Being part of the University has provided me with not only the resources to pursue my academic goals but also a sense of belonging and encouragement at every step.
It’s a place where everyone is empowered to succeed and feel genuinely valued.
We have expanded our Sanctuary Scholarships policies and practicies, and have also introduced a route specifically available for Gazan students who aren’t refugees or asylum seekers in the UK.
These two additional sanctuary scholarships for the 2024/25 academic year include funding for tuition fees and living costs, as well as visa and travel costs and the NHS surcharge.
Learn more about the scholarships available for Gazan students .
The University of Leeds teaches various modules about refugee and asylum seeker experience.
Subject areas include:
Watch: Extracts from a Global Perspectives seminar on Vimeo.
We are part of the RefugEAP scheme , providing online English for Academic Purposes training for refugees and asylum seekers.
We deliver this scheme for sanctuary seekers in partnership with the University of Leicester.
Our Lifelong Learning Centre collaborates with organisations in Leeds and surrounding areas, including the Refugee Education Training Advice Service (RETAS), Positive Action for Refugees and Asylum Seekers (PAFRAS), Leeds Asylum Seekers Support Network (LASSN) and a range of refugee-led community organisations to deliver equitable and inclusive teaching and learning opportunities.
The Academic Asylum Seekers and Refugee Access Membership grants free year-long reference access to our libraries for refugees and asylum seekers.
The Welcoming Migrants programme brings sanctuary seekers from diverse backgrounds together to nurture a sense of belonging and enrich health and wellbeing.
Created in consultation with community organisations, the programme uses our collections at the Stanley & Audrey Burton Gallery and Treasures of the Brotherton Gallery to forge meaningful relationships within campus and the wider community.
Leeds Migration Research Network is an interdisciplinary research network of academics and practitioners in the area of migration research.
Our work with the Council for At-Risk Academics (CARA) improves our support for academics at risk of being forcibly displaced and their families.
Increased funding has secured two additional placements for visiting research fellows from Gaza.
“Access to education is still systematically being denied across the world.
The support that was offered to us from the University of Leeds and Cara is huge.”
Leeds STAR provides volunteering, campaigning and fundraising opportunities to support refugees and raise awareness of the barriers they face.
We have a STAR representative member in our University of Sanctuary Working Group.
Our Students into Schools scheme works with primary and secondary schools across West Yorkshire, which comprise of growing diverse student populations, including those who speak English as an additional language (EAL).
Volunteers for the scheme receive language training on Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL), through our Language Centre and Leeds Migration training, in order to provide literacy, numeracy and other subject-specific support to local students.
Our Refugee Week celebration brings together our teaching and research with the lived experiences of those seeking sanctuary.
We have a special refugee book collection and a dedicated Refugee Week Reading List .
This includes archives on cultural collections specific to migration, film and television shows and resources and local organisations supporting refugees and asylum seekers.
Open to all, our events and activities explore challenges to inequalities, and foster mattering, belonging and inclusivity.
We have a building named after our alumnus, Esther Simpson, who supported academics seeking refuge before and after WWII.
As part of the University's Special Collections, Esther Simpson’s correspondence and papers , were donated to the University.
They include includes personal papers, photographs and press-cuttings – including notes and drafts regarding Esther Simpson's 'Refugee Scholars' book – and can be viewed by the public.
Our University of Sanctuary award acknowledges the extensive efforts made by our University of Sanctuary Steering Group.
It aims to further raise awareness, foster broader engagement, and establish a sustainable framework that reinforces the University's dedication to being a safe and welcoming environment.
Pro-Vice Chancellor for Student Education and Experience, Professor Jeff Grabill, said: “I’m honoured to be part of a community that’s dedicated to supporting vulnerable people from around the world, especially those displaced by conflict or by persecution.”
Leeds City of Sanctuary panel member Ian Kemp said the University’s Sanctuary Status was ‘an amazing achievement’.
He said: “A significant amount of work has been undertaken by the University.
It’s got an excellent Sanctuary Scholars programme, and it’s great to see such a dynamic effort involving lots of people, with staff and students becoming more and more engaged.”
The University of Sanctuary Steering Group’s importance extends well beyond the campus and ensures that we listen to the voices of our wider community.
For more information, or if you’d like to get involved, email the Sanctuary Steering Group: sanctuary@leeds.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/directory-record/22832/professor-shearer-west:
Email the Vice-Chancellor and President’s Office: shearer.west@leeds.ac.uk
After completing her PhD, Professor West worked as an editor for the Grove Dictionary of Art before taking up her first academic post at the University of Leicester.
In 1996, she moved to the University of Birmingham as Head of the History of Art Department, then Head of the School of Historical Studies, and Acting Head of the College of Arts and Law.
She was awarded a personal chair in 2000.
In 2008 Professor West was appointed as Director of Research at the Arts and Humanities Research Council where she also chaired the Research Directors Group for Research Councils UK.
She then took up role as Head of the Humanities Division at Oxford in 2011, where she oversaw the launch of the Oxford Research Centre in the Humanities (TORCH) and the Ertegun Graduate Scholarship Programme in the Humanities.
She was appointed as Provost and Deputy Vice-Chancellor at the University of Sheffield in 2015.
Professor West then joined the University of Nottingham as its first woman Vice-Chancellor in October 2017, leading its campuses in the UK, China and Malaysia and publishing its University Strategy in December 2019.
Professor West is a board member and deputy chair of the Russell Group, which provides strategic advice, policy development and representation for the UK’s 24 leading research-intensive universities.
She is a Trustee and Deputy Chair of the National Portrait Gallery and a former Visitor (trustee) of the Ashmolean Museum, Oxford.
Professor West has also served in numerous international roles, including acting as the main panel chair for the national research assessment exercise for Humanities in Norway and serving on the steering group to introduce impact into the Excellence in Research (ERA) exercise in Australia.
She is former Chair of the Universitas 21 global network of universities and is currently a board member of the Association of Commonwealth Universities and a member of the University Grants Committee of Hong Kong.
She has also represented the UK on the Science Europe Humanities Scientific Committee and has been a jurist for the Spinoza and Gravitation Prizes in the Netherlands and the Odysseus and Solvay Prizes in Belgium.
Professor West has authored and edited many articles and nine books including Portraiture, The visual arts in Germany 1897-1940: Utopia and Despair, and Fin De Siècle: Art and society in an age of uncertainty.
She is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts, the Higher Education Academy and the Royal Historical Society, and has held two visiting Fellowships at Yale University.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/university-executive/dir-record/profiles/19812/jennifer-sewel :
Email the University Secretary’s office: university-secretary@leeds.ac.uk
As University Secretary and Registrar, Jennifer Sewel (BA, LLB (Hons), DLP, MBA) is responsible, amongst other things, for providing advice and support to the Governing Body (Council), Senate and their committees.
Her work includes; corporate governance, ethics and reputation; overseeing the University’s response to changes in the external regulatory framework; legal services; policy and compliance including, Data Protection, Freedom of Information; Freedom of Expression, Prevent; Student discipline, complaints and appeals; whistleblowing, misconduct in academic research; Protocol, and oversight of the management of critical incidents (including student emergencies).
The direct reports of the University Secretary and Registrar include Governance and Compliance, Policy, Funding and Regulation, Communications and Engagement, Risk Management, and Wellbeing, Safety and Health.
Jennifer has worked in the Higher Education sector since 1996, most recently as University Secretary at Durham University and previously as Director of Policy, Planning and Governance at the University of Aberdeen.
Prior to moving to Higher Education, Jennifer worked within the Financial Services sector and in the Civil Service.
She studied law at the University of Aberdeen (LLB Hons; and Diploma in Legal Practice), has a Bachelor of Arts from the Open University and a MBA (Higher Education) from University College London Institute of Education.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/university-executive/dir-record/profiles/19810/jane-madeley:
Email the Chief Financial Officer’s Executive Assistant Samantha Booth: s.booth1@leeds.ac.uk
Jane Madeley (MBA ACA) is the University’s Chief Financial Officer.
In addition to her core responsibilities, she works closely with the Commercialisation team and chairs the Commercialisation Advisory Group.
Jane’s role also includes developing the University’s commercial relationships with industry, commerce, public-sector partners and education and research partners at home and abroad.
Jane attends the University’s Audit and Risk Committee and its Strategy and Investment Committee.
Jane is Vice Chair of the Confederation of British Industry (CBI) Yorkshire and the Humber Regional Council, where she has previously represented the University.
Jane is a non-executive director (NED) and Chair of the Audit Risk Committee of Northern Gritstone Limited, an investment company established by the Universities of Leeds, Manchester and Sheffield to fund their early stage spin out companies.
Previously Jane has held independent NED roles within Leeds Community Healthcare NHS Trust and at UK Research and Innovation.
Jane graduated in History and Economics from York University in 1989 and has an MBA.
Since qualifying as a chartered accountant, and prior to joining the University in 2009, Jane held senior finance positions in a range of international businesses in the retail and fast moving consumer goods sectors, and was based in the UK and Europe.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/university-executive/dir-record/profiles/19811/rachel-brealey :
Email the Chief Operating Officer’s office: COO_Office@leeds.ac.uk
As Chief Operating Officer (COO) at the University of Leeds, Rachel is a key member of the University Executive Group (UEG), supporting the Vice-Chancellor and President in the leadership, management and effective operation of the University.
Rachel contributes significantly to the implementation of the University strategy and delivering the goals across the themes of community, culture and impact.
She manages and leads strategic change, and ensures the efficient use of resources and the quality of service provision.
Rachel is primarily responsible for University-wide operations and the direct service delivery of key corporate functions, including digital and information services, marketing and student recruitment, student education and experience, advancement, campus innovation and development and facilities management, strategic transformational change programmes and faculty operations.
Rachel Brealey has over than 25 years’ experience in the higher education sector, having started her career as President of the Students’ Union at the University of Manchester Institute of Science and Technology (UMIST).
Prior to her appointment as Chief Operating Officer at the University of Leeds, she was Director of Faculty Operations in Biology, Medicine and Health and joint Portfolio Director of a pan-University transformational change programme for Professional Services at Manchester.
She has been involved in a wide range of large-scale change programmes, including the 2004 merger of UMIST and the University of Manchester, and the development of the Manchester Engineering Campus Development (MECD), a £400M capital build project.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/directory-record/22876/louise-kindon:
Email the Chief People and Culture Officer’s Executive Assistant Charlotte Canny: c.canny@leeds.ac.uk
As Chief People and Culture Officer, Louise Kindon contributes significantly to the University’s strategy by leading the development and implementation of people and organisational initiatives at Leeds.
The Chief People and Culture Officer is a key member of the University Executive Group (UEG), supporting the Vice-Chancellor and Deputy Vice-Chancellor in the leadership and management of the University and ensuring people, culture and values are at the heart of University decision-making.
Louise is primarily responsible for Human Resources (HR) and Organisational Development and Professional Learning (ODPL), as well as employee-related change management and projects.
She also works in close partnership with Equity, Diversity and Inclusion and Wellbeing, Safety and Health.
Louise has more than 35 years of wide-ranging HR and change management experience across a variety of sectors.
Prior to her appointment at the University of Leeds, Louise worked as Deputy Director of HR at the University of Birmingham.
She has also worked at the University of Warwick and in the finance and utilities sectors.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/study/events/event/516/7th-annual-ati-visualization-viztig-symposium:
VizTIG is the Alan Turing Institute’s special interest group on Data Visualization.
It is an in-person, all-day event and comprises talks, posters and a keynote.
The Symposium provides opportunities for visualization researchers and practitioners to share and discuss their latest work and maximise networks across the UK VIS community.
We anticipate a mixed audience, including visualization researchers and application domain researchers, as well as interested students and industry collaborators.
Keynote: We are excited to announce our keynote speaker Jürgen Bernard .
Jürgen Bernard is a non-tenured Assistant Professor of Computer Science at the University of Zurich (UZH), Switzerland.
He is leading the Interactive Visual Data Analysis (IVDA) Group.
He is affiliated with the Digital Society Initiative (DSI), the interdisciplinary and cross-faculty research initiative of the UZH.
Jürgen Bernard studied Computer Sciences with a focus on Computer Graphics and Biotechnology at the University of Technology of Darmstadt.
He received his PhD Degree in 2015, when he was with Fraunhofer IGD.
His thesis was about “Exploratory Search in Time-Oriented Primary Data”.
In 2016, Jürgen Bernard started as a Post-doc researcher at TU Darmstadt at the Interactive Graphics Systems Group, leading the Visual-Interactive Machine Learning Group.
In 2019, Jürgen Bernard became a postdoctoral research fellow at the University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada, where he joined the InfoVis group, led by Professor Tamara Munzner.
For his contributions in visualization research, Jürgen was awarded the EuroVis Young Researcher Award (2021) and the Eurographics Young Researcher Award (2022).
Call for presentations: Please submit a one-page illustrated summary for a chance to present and discuss your recent research or upcoming research problems in visualization at the Symposium.
Each presenter will have at least 10 minutes to present and 5 minutes for questions.
Call for posters: Please submit a 200-word abstract for a chance to present and discuss your research or research problems in visualization at the symposium at the lunchtime poster session.
Both types of submission should be made using the submission form by the deadline of 11:39 pm BST on 27 July .
Contact details: The Symposium is organised by the Leeds Institute for Data Analytics (LIDA).
If you have any queries then please email lida@leeds.ac.uk , putting “VizTIG Symposium” in the subject line.
We are looking forward to welcoming you to the University of Leeds!

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/study/events/event/517/new-perspectives-on-data-science-for-business-a-leeds-digital-festival-event:
Businesses use data to understand themselves, their environment and their customers.
Business leaders who understand how to leverage data gain competitive advantage and drive success.
The Leeds Institute for Data Analytics (LIDA) at the University of Leeds is supporting businesses and organisations to exploit their data through research, training and our "talent pipeline".
At this event you will hear from three LIDA experts about new tools and techniques that can transform the value of information.
The event will include a Q&A and networking session, and we are interested in hearing from you, what challenges you face and how LIDA and the University of Leeds support your data analysis roadmap.
Agenda: 3 x 15 mins quick-fire presentations about key topics in data science
Networking and refreshments (1 hour)

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/study/events/event/521/lida-health-careers-and-networking-event:
You will hear from industry experts, researchers and graduates who have successfully transitioned into the field, to gain valuable insights into opportunities ahead.
Don’t miss this chance to connect, learn, and shape your future!
Places are limited so book early to avoid disappointment.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/about/doc/information-suppliers:
We work with a range of local and international suppliers of all sizes to buy goods and services to enable us to deliver excellent research and teaching facilities to our students.
The University of Leeds is not a contracting authority for the purposes of The Procurement Regulations 2024 for the financial year ending 31 July 2025.
We will assess the University’s contracting status annually and we reserve the right to voluntarily operate under The Procurement Regulations 2024 on a case-by-case basis.
We always aim for best value for money and we expect our supplier base to demonstrate competence, capability and competitiveness and to respect our core values and responsibilities .
We buy some products and services directly from suppliers.
We also buy some goods and services as member of the North Eastern University Purchasing Consortia (NEUPC) framework agreement with other Universities in our region.
Before you become a new supplier, please read the guidance on this page.
All procurements must demonstrate value for money for our students, donors and staff, so we use competitive bidding and tendering on all purchases, proportionate to value.
To deliver value for money on lower value procurements, we source quotes from a range of local, regional, and national framework agreements, where possible.
£50,000 excluding VAT to £214,904 including VAT: We use a formal competitive tender process or an appropriate framework.
You can find and apply for these tender opportunities through the Delta Tender Portal .
£214,904 and above including VAT: We follow a competitive tender process.
Where we follow the requirements of The Procurement Regulations 2024, you can find and apply for these tender opportunities through the Delta Tender Portal and on the Central Digital Platform .
To apply, you must first register your organisation on our Delta Tender Portal or log in if you have already registered.
Here you can:
You can also apply for all NEUPC contracts through the Delta portal .
When tenders are on behalf of the consortium the NEUPC will be listed as the buying organisation.
When buying the wide range of goods and services needed to support the University, we must follow various external regulations and internal processes and procedures.
Before becoming a new supplier, you should read the following guidance.
For the supply of goods and services below the tender threshold we contract under the University's general Terms and Conditions for suppliers .
Some contracts are subject to specific terms and conditions for example if there is a formal University tender process or a consortia agreement.
We also have specific Terms and Conditions for suppliers working onsite .
We are responsible for making sure that individuals working with us through their own limited company (known as a personal service company or PSC) pay the right amount of tax and NI.
If you are a personal service company and believe you are affected by the IR35 rules, please tell your contact at the University before you start delivering services.
The Freedom of Information Act 2000 applies to all the activities of the University.
Under the Act, we may be required to provide information we hold about our suppliers in response to a request, unless a statutory exemption applies.
This may include information marked as 'commercial in confidence.'
We may occasionally need further information from you, as our supplier, to deal with a Freedom of Information request.
If we do, we will ask you to reply within five working days to meet the deadlines for the consultation.
As our supplier, you should be aware of our obligations and responsibilities under the Data Protection Act 2018 and General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
As an organisation we have to maintain records of what personal data we hold, what we do with it and when we delete it.
We also have to demonstrate how we keep personal data safe.
We also need to make sure that you, as our supplier also maintains these standards whenever you handle sensitive data as part of your contract.
We do not accept liability or responsibility in any way for any unsolicited goods or services.
'Unsolicited goods' means goods or services received where the supplier has not received a valid instruction to deliver those goods or proceed with the performance of services.
You must make sure all delivery and invoice documentation clearly displays a valid University Purchase Order number unless an alternative method has been agreed by the University in writing.
Any submitted invoices that are incorrect or incomplete may be returned unpaid for correction and re-submission.
Any invoices we receive without a Purchase Order or valid instruction to proceed will be rejected.
Following the introduction of the Modern Slavery Act 2015, we updated all our procurement documentation and processes to allow us to take proactive steps to monitor, investigate and act upon any evidence of modern slavery in our supply chains.
We use a categories to identify supply chains which are at highest risk and before we award contracts of significant value, suppliers are required to confirm they comply with the Modern Slavery Act and support our approach.
Please read our full Modern Slavery statement .
The University is committed to the prevention of bribery connected to University business.
Serious action will be taken against anyone found to be involved in bribery.
Please read our Anti Bribery Policy (PDF) .
We have developed a sustainability strategy which is embedded in our procurement.
This means we consider social, environmental and economic impacts when we are buying goods and services and awarding contracts.
We uphold the principles of equality and diversity in everything we do and we expect our suppliers and contractors to adopt a similar approach.
Please read our values and responsibilities .
In the first step to become a Smokefree campus, we are asking staff, students and visitors not to smoke outside on campus between 8am and 6pm every day as we aim to inspire people – and in particular current and future generations of young people – to choose not to smoke.
Currently people can still vape on campus, as it’s recognised as an aid to stop smoking, but we’re working towards our campus being completely Smokefree by 2025.
This is part of a city-wide ambition to create a Smokefree generation by 2025.
Smoking and vaping inside University buildings or by their entrances remains prohibited.
Organisations across the UK and Europe are often the target for procurement scams.
We advise all suppliers to consult with their IT or cyber security advisors to ensure they remain vigilant and informed on how to identify suspicious requests, for example:
A supplier may receive a quotation request for goods on extended payment terms.
Once the quotation has been provided, a fraudulent purchase order is emailed to the supplier.
The purchase order typically instructs delivery to an address that may or may not be affiliated with the University.
After shipping the goods, they are collected and despatched, usually abroad.
How to identify fraudulent emails and purchase orders:
For high value orders please refer to the University's guidance on Public Procurement.
To receive payments, send your invoice in PDF format by email to the Accounts Payable Department via APUOL@leeds.ac.uk .
Paper documents sent to the University will not be actioned.
The University’s standard payment terms are 30 days.
Your invoice must quote a valid University purchase order number.
Invoices without a purchase order number will be returned unpaid.
Payments will only be made when we receive a valid invoice which matches the purchase order (value and quantity) and the goods have been received by the University.
Our weekly BACS run is carried out on Wednesday and funds clear in suppliers' bank accounts on the Friday.
If a payment has been made to your bank account you will receive a remittance advice regarding this payment.
This will be sent by email if an email address has been provided to Accounts Payable, or by post.
To prevent fraud, we make thorough checks to validate supplier details.
If your bank or payment details change you must give us a minimum of 4 weeks’ notice otherwise there may be a delay in payment.
Performance data for payment of undisputed invoices within 30 days, financial year 2018–19
Deliveries to the University should be made to the address specified on the purchase order you have received.
For support with any invoicing queries please email the Accounts Payable team at APUOL@leeds.ac.uk .
For support with general purchasing queries please email the Purchasing Administration team at CentralPurchasing@adm.leeds.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/about/doc/accessibility-statement/page/2:
We know that some of the third-party content included in our websites and applications is not accessible.
This page also contains statements for some of the third-party products used at the University.
Our Digital Education Systems Help site contains accessibility statements for third-party tools used for education .
The University of Leeds is committed to making its third-party web content accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
This accessibility statement applies to the University of Leeds Information Governance training system, hosted in the Learning Pool system.
The Learning Pool system comprises a Learning Management System (LMS) that hosts the training, and e-learning modules from the Learning Pool ‘Ready-made’ Libraries that have been customised by the University.
The training modules contain interactive components such as multiple-choice questions, horizontal scrolling, accordions and hot graphics.
There are no audio, video or animated components.
Learning Pool’s own accessibility statements for its LMS and its ‘Ready-made’ Libraries can be read at the following locations:
The University of Leeds Information Governance training system is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.2 AA standard, due to the non-compliances listed below.
We have identified the following accessibility issues with the e-learning modules and are working with the supplier to resolve these.
The platform supplier recently undertook a separate, full, third-party digital accessibility audit and have been addressing issues that will address some or all these issues:
NVDA screen reader users are encouraged to use the Firefox browser due to the difficulties with using NVDA with the Chrome browser as noted under ‘Non-compliance with the accessibility regulations’.
VoiceOver users are encouraged to use the Firefox browser due to the difficulties with tabbing around some parts of the content while using the Safari browser, as noted under ‘Non-compliance with the accessibility regulations’.
Some parts of the training may be hard to access for VoiceOver users, as noted under ‘Non-compliance with the accessibility regulations’.
These users may prefer a text-only, Word transcript.
See the ‘Requesting and text-only, Word transcript’ section for details of how to request this.
Please contact the IT Service Desk via the Request Catalogue using the ‘Log a General Request’ option if the accessibility shortcomings of the training system mean a text-only, Word transcript of the content of the Information Governance training modules would be more convenient for you.
Requesting in this way allows a record to be kept of your engagement with the training.
We can then manually mark the training as complete against your user record when you have later confirmed that you have read the transcript and questions.
This statement was prepared on 4 April 2022.
This statement for the University of Leeds Information Governance training system was prepared through automated and manual testing of the system by the University of Leeds.
It was evaluated against all WCAG 2.1 AA criteria.
This statement was last reviewed on 20 December 2024.
If you need information in the University of Leeds Information Governance training system in a format other than a text-only transcript, like accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording or braille, please contact the IT Service Desk:
We’re always looking to improve web accessibility.
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, contact the IT Service Desk:
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS).
This accessibility statement applies to the University of Leeds ‘Falco’ chatbot.
The core product behind the ‘Falco’ chatbot is ServiceNow Virtual Agent, which is controlled by its provider, ServiceNow.
Some of the chatbot functionality and its content is controlled by the University.
We want as many people as possible to use this chatbot.
For example, that means you should be able to:
While we are working actively to resolve the accessibility issues with the chatbot where we can, AbilityNet has advice that may make our digital properties more usable in their current state.
We know some parts of the ‘Falco’ chatbot are not fully accessible:
The chatbot is considered an alternative route to access information already available on the IT site on which it’s hosted.
We recommend people who use assistive technologies consider using the IT site as normal or call the IT Service Desk on 0113 343 3333 .
If you need information from the chatbot in a different format like accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording or braille, please contact IT Services:
Please also consider looking for the information via the main IT site.
We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of the ‘Falco’ chatbot.
If you find any problems not listed in this statement or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, contact IT Services with details of the issue you’ve identified:
The ‘Falco’ chatbot is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.2 AA standard, due to the non-compliances and exemptions listed below.
Documents published before 23 September 2018:
The ‘Falco’ chatbot’s responses are based on the content already on the IT site.
This means it may reference or link to PDF or other office file formats that were published before 23 September 2018.
This does not meet WCAG 2.2 success criterion 4.1.2 Name, Role, Value.
Most of the chatbot experience is defined by ServiceNow, the supplier of the chatbot.
We’ve been assured that ServiceNow is working on the non-compliances identified here and improvements are expected to be live in line with the planned release schedule of the wider platform versions.
For the parts of the experience the University can control, we are actively making improvements.
We hope to have all of these resolved by the end of 2025.
This statement was first prepared on 29 July 2022.
It was last reviewed on 20 December 2024.
The core product behind the ‘Falco’ chatbot, ServiceNow Virtual Agent, was last fully tested on 7 April 2022.
The test was carried out by ServiceNow.
This test informs most of the non-compliance findings in this statement.
For its testing, ServiceNow used the following evaluation methods:
The University has also performed some simple, usability-based accessibility testing using assistive technologies (such as iOS VoiceOver and Voice Control, Android Talkback, and NVDA) that has provided additional non-compliances.
This accessibility statement applies to publications.leeds.ac.uk and has been adapted from a template provided by Digital Science.
The publications and research information database used at the University of Leeds is an instance of Symplectic Elements, supplied by Digital Science.
It is designed to be usable by as many Leeds researchers as possible.
The text should be clear and simple to understand.
You should be able to:
AbilityNet has accessibility advice on how to adapt your device to meet your needs.
Some parts of this website are not fully accessible:
To minimise the risk of encountering non-accessible pages in Symplectic you should:
If you have any issues with accessibility when using this system or encounter non-accessible content please contact Digital Science by emailing support@symplectic.co.uk , copying in research@library.leeds.ac.uk.
Digital Science may be able to provide the information on this website in a different format like accessible PDF, large print, easy read and audio recording.
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how Digital Science respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS).
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.2 AA standard, due to the non-compliances and exemptions listed below.
Non-compliance with accessibility regulations.
Issues that users could encounter whilst using Elements include:
Disproportionate burden:
Content that’s not within the scope of accessibility regulations:
This statement was prepared by Digital Science on 21 September 2020.
It was last reviewed on 20 December 2024.
As part of a substantial revision to this website, pages are being tested for accessibility as they receive attention.
This statement is based on testing performed up to 16 January 2023.
The test was carried out by internal teams.
This accessibility statement applies to the University of Leeds’ International Medieval Congress (IMC) submission portal provided by Confex.
The portal is developed and run by Confex with customisations requested by the University of Leeds.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
While we are working actively with Confex to resolve the accessibility issues with the portal where we can, AbilityNet has accessibility advice that may make the portal more usable in its current state.
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, contact the IMC team:
Email: Email the IMC team via imc@leeds.ac.uk explaining the issue you’re experiencing.
If you need information from the portal in a different format like accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording or braille, or if you’re struggling to use the platform, please contact the IMC team:
Alternative accommodations for any users with disabilities who may find obstructions in the platform are outlined in the ‘What we’re doing to improve accessibility’ section.
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
The University of Leeds is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
The portal has been tested against the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.1 AA standard.
This portal is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.2 AA standard, due to the non-compliances listed below.
All WCAG 2.2 AA non-compliances will be addressed by the platform supplier, Confex, as soon as possible.
There are no claims for disproportionate burden at this time.
Parts of the submission process include a free, third-party text editor.
The ‘undo’ and ‘redo’ buttons do not include adapt their labels to indicate what will be undone and redone by actioning them.
This fails WCAG 2.2 success criterion 4.1.2 Name, Role, Value.
However, as these buttons are part of third-party content that is neither funded nor developed by, nor under the control of, the University, the regulations don’t apply.
The University is working with Confex, the platform supplier, as it remediates its platform to address the non-compliances.
Confex has assured us all issues will be addressed as soon as possible.
Anyone unable to submit a proposal within the platform can email the IMC team via imc@leeds.ac.uk for a Paper Proposal Word document.
This mirrors the fields in the web platform.
The IMC team will populate the information into the platform once the form is emailed back to them, and will ensure all the appropriate information is submitted, querying anything that doesn’t seem right.
Similar processes are available for any other forms inaccessible to a delegate (bursary applications, session submissions, etc.).
For edits to submissions or personal details, delegates can email their corrections/changes to the IMC team.
Any delegates who cannot freely edit abstracts on the platform, can also email their changes to the IMC team who will make them on their behalf.
This statement was prepared on 27 March 2024.
This website was last tested in November 2023 against the WCAG 2.1 AA standard.
The test was carried out by Shaw Trust following an initial test in February 2023.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/about/doc/accessibility-statement/page/3:
The University of Leeds makes several mobile apps available.
These are either developed in house, supplied by a vendor with some customisations, or provided without any adjustments.
We will work to make our current apps accessible where possible and will endeavour to procure accessible apps.
Some of our mobile applications fall outside the regulations, haven’t been updated since September 2019, or are no longer in use.
Accessibility statements will not be available for these applications.
This accessibility statement applies to the IMC (International Medieval Congress) mobile application.
It is available for iOS and Android devices.
This app is branded for the University of Leeds by a third-party supplier, Confex, and is intended for use by members of the public as well as students and staff of the University.
While we are working actively to resolve the accessibility issues with this app AbilityNet has advice that may make it more usable in its current state.
We know some parts of this mobile application are not fully accessible:
If convenient, some people may find the desktop browser version of the app, the IMC virtual event platform, works better with assistive technologies.
If you need information in this mobile application in a different format like accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording or braille, please make contact through IT Services:
We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this mobile application.
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, please make contact through IT Services and provide the mobile application you’re using and the issue you’ve identified:
University of Leeds is committed to making its mobile applications accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
This mobile application is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.2 AA standard, due to the non-compliances and exemptions listed below.
These issues have been found via simple testing of the mobile application.
There may be more accessibility problems than mentioned here.
The third-party supplier is commissioning a digital accessibility audit of all its platforms and aims to address all non-compliances by mid 2025.
We aren’t claiming disproportionate burden against any of the mobile application’s accessibility problems at this time.
Colleagues are working to improve the compliance of all mobile applications that should be accessible as well as all websites and browser-based systems.
This statement was prepared on 28 June 2022.
This mobile application was last tested on 18 June 2024.
The test was carried out by the University of Leeds.
The testing consisted of the following:
This accessibility statement applies to the GFaL Rewards mobile application.
This app is branded for the University of Leeds by a third-party supplier, Lolly, and is intended for use by members of the public as well as students and staff of the University.
The third-party supplier has been notified of all the following non-compliances and assured the University that they are prioritising fixes.
The University will seek to have all issues resolved by mid 2025.
This statement was prepared on 24 June 2022.
This accessibility statement applies to the RRapid eBook mobile application.
This app is controlled by the University of Leeds and is intended for use by members of the public as well as students and staff of the University.
We plan to address all the following issues by mid 2025.
This mobile application was last tested on 21 June 2022.
The UniLeedsEvents app is currently available for download on the Apple App Store and on Google Play but is inactive.
We will not be producing an accessibility statement for the app at this time.
UniLeedsEvents was a companion app for select individual events held by the University of Leeds.
All of these events have passed.
There are no further plans to use the app for University events.
Because the app isn’t in use there are no users to inform of any accessibility issues so we will not be producing an accessibility statement.
According to the Central Digital and Data Office (CDDO), to come within scope of accessibility regulations, a mobile app needs to be designed and developed by or on behalf of a public sector body and be intended for use by the general public.
CDDO has advised that apps for specific defined groups, such as employees or students, are not covered by the 2018 accessibility regulations.
This means some of our apps are not required to be accessible.
We appreciate our mobile applications fall under the Equality Act 2010, the Public Sector Equality Duty and the Public Contracts Regulations 2015 and, as such, all technology procured in the public sector should be accessible.
We regard the following apps as not falling under the 2018 regulations:
This is an app that hasn’t been developed for the University of Leeds but is supplied with University branding.
However, it is intended to be used only by the University’s students.
Because of this, we understand the UniLeeds app doesn’t fall under the 2018 regulations.
We don’t intended to produce an accessibility statement at this time.
This is an app that’s been custom-built exclusively for the University of Leeds.
However, it’s intended to be used by only University of Leeds staff and students.
Because of this, we understand the Get Out.
Get Active.
app doesn’t fall under the 2018 regulations.
The regulations state that they do not apply to content of mobile applications qualifying as archives, and that archives means a mobile application that only contains content not needed for active administrative processes and not updated or edited after 23rd September 2019.
Based on this, we regard the following apps as not falling under the regulations:
This is a paediatric medicine version of the RRapid eBook app covered previously on this page.
It was last updated in December 2016 and is not needed for active administrative processes.
For these reasons this app is regarded as archive.
We don’t intend to produce an accessibility statement at this time.
This was last updated in April 2017 and is not needed for active administrative processes.
This was last updated in November 2015 and is not needed for active administrative processes.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/about/doc/accessibility-statement/page/4:
The Web Accessibility Project developed a plan in 2019 to address the many of the University’s web accessibility issues.
The project aimed to address web accessibility issues across 67 core sites of the University’s digital estate, excluding system-driven sites.
The plan began in February 2020 with the creation of the compliant Design System and remediation efforts to meet WCAG 2.1 (later 2.2) AA guidelines.
Project effort was divided into three main work streams: creating new web user interface components in the Design System, testing and implementing those components onto new sites, and migrating and remediating on-page content, including Word and PDF documents.
Several areas of the University digital estate have either been moved onto the new Design System, the compliant WordPress estate, or SharePoint intranet estate.
Significant milestones are covered under the ‘Improvements to the digital estate’ heading.
The project plan is subject to external factors.
Dates for when these sites will be addressed haven’t been redetermined yet.
However, it’s anticipated there will be constant improvements over the coming years.
This section will be updated when a new prioritised plan has been agreed.
For the parts of the digital estate that haven’t been in scope for the Web Accessibility Project, the University’s IT Governance, Risk and Compliance team is addressing non-compliances by working through a prioritised list of sites and systems with internal teams and external suppliers.
If you would like to know when a site or system will be addressed, or would like to input on which sites and systems should be prioritised, please contact IT Services:
The following accessibility improvements have been made to the Leeds digital estate either via the Web Accessibility Project or ‘business as usual’ effort.
A brand-new, accessible design system has been built from the ground up.
This has meant the creation of a suite of fully accessible components and styles that will be applied to sites across the digital estate.
The design system was applied to the main University site in June 2021, following a pilot application to the Wellbeing, Safety and Health site.
It has since been applied to the Course Finder site and new patterns created for the faculty, For Students, and Accommodation sites.
Improvements and new, accessible components continue to be built for the Design System on a regular basis.
They are then implemented on appropriate sites as soon as possible.
Accessibility improvements to the primary University site include the following:
Work began on migrating and downsizing the Student website into a new version of the site that uses the University’s compliant Design System.
This is expected to complete in early 2025.
A new version of the University WordPress theme was applied to around 400 sites through the first nine months of 2023.
This achieved code-based compliance with WCAG 2.1 AA.
The Governance and Compliance site was migrated from a non-compliant site to compliant WordPress and SharePoint sites.
The staff intranet was launched, using the SharePoint platform.
This is enabling the closing of the non-compliant For Staff site in mid 2024.
A full set of guidelines for producing accessible web content and documents has been created.
The Digital Accessibility site helps colleagues meet accessibility requirements within the University’s primary content management systems as well as Word and PowerPoint.
The University engaged a third party to benchmark our processes, practices, and materials regarding digital accessibility.
The University was given a set of key recommendations that colleagues are working to implement.
Many of these will have positive effects on the digital and web estates.
As of early 2025, the University continues to work to achieve the recommendations.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/about/doc/accessibility-statement/page/5:
This document outlines the University of Leeds’ conformance status with the European Accessibility Act (EAA).
The products and services in scope of the EAA provided by or supplied through the University partially meet the requirements of the act.
All these products and services have been available prior to the EAA coming into force on 28 June 2025.
If you want to make the University aware of accessibility issues in its digital estate, need something in an accessible format, or are part of a relevant authority and need to contact the University in relation to the EAA, use one of the following methods:
We’ll look at your request and get back to you as soon as we can.
The University believes the following parts of the EAA apply to its products and services in the ways noted.
E-commerce site: The University online store, store.leeds.ac.uk.
The University aims for its websites, browser-based systems, and mobile apps it controls and purchases to meet the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.2 to the AA standard (WCAG 2.2 AA).
Compliance here is referenced against this WCAG 2.2 AA due to its close overlap with the EN 301 549 standard.
The University offers a range of courses in its role as a higher education institution.
The University provides the ability to pay course fees via direct debit (payment services).
See Tuition fee payment schedule for more information about paying course fees via direct debit at the University.
The University offers a range of accommodation to students.
The University provides the ability to pay accommodation fees via direct debit (payment services).
See Charges and payment dates for more information about paying accommodation fees via direct debit at the University.
The EAA references the Payment Services Directive as providing the definition for payment services.
This includes the “execution of direct debits” as a payment service.
Payment via direct debit brings relevant payment of course fees and accommodation in scope of the EAA.
Direct debit payments for course fees and accommodation are both set up via the same browser-based portal, Arrangement to Pay Fees in Instalments .
This portal is based on the SAP platform and developed by the University.
This portal will be replaced by a new SAP solution before the end of 2026, developed to ensure it will be compliant.
The Edge is the University’s on-campus sport and fitness complex, providing related leisure services to students, staff and the public.
The University provides the ability to pay for memberships to The Edge via direct debit (payment services).
Guidance for making a booking contains detail around how to add a membership via direct debit for The Edge.
Payment via direct debit brings relevant purchases of memberships to The Edge in scope of the EAA.
We know some parts of the membership purchase process are not fully accessible.
Although more non-compliances may exist, the following items are non-compliant for the displayed reasons:
Compliance of this portal is controlled by its supplier.
Refer to the supplier and its documentation to determine the complete, up-to-date level of compliance.
The GFaL (Great Food at Leeds) Rewards mobile app allows customers of the University’s catering facilities to collect loyalty stamps, earn points, and access offers.
Users can buy credit (electronic money) through the browser-based GFaL Rewards credit portal to make purchases using the mobile app.
Purchasing of electronic money places GFaL Rewards in scope of the EAA.
The GFaL Rewards credit portal and mobile app are supplied to the University by a third party, Lolly.
The University doesn’t directly control the compliance of the credit portal or mobile app.
We know some parts of the GFaL Rewards credit portal are not fully accessible.
The MyPrint system allows students and staff to print, copy and scan documents in University libraries, computer clusters and some student residences.
Users can print to MyPrint from any device with an internet connection, and then can log in at any MyPrint printer to collect their document.
Users can also save scanned documents directly to their university email account or OneDrive cloud storage.
Users are charged when they print, copy, or scan a document.
Users can log in to the MyPrint portal to buy credits (electronic money) to use the service.
Purchasing of electronic money places MyPrint in scope of the EAA.
The MyPrint portal uses a combination of the Papercut product supplied to the University by a third party, Konica Minolta, and a payment process provided by another third party, Epay.
The University doesn’t directly control the compliance of these products.
We know some parts of the MyPrint portal and Epay payment process are not fully accessible.
Compliance of this portal and payment process are controlled by the relevant suppliers.
Refer to the suppliers and their documentation to determine the complete, up-to-date level of compliance.
The University makes e-books from third-party publishers available in EPUB format via its Library.
It doesn’t have direct control of the compliance of EPUB e-books.
The University also co-publishes e-books in EPUB format through the White Rose University Press , of which it does have some direct control.
Compliance of EPUB e-book publications is controlled by their respective suppliers.
Refer to the suppliers and their documentation to determine their complete, up-to-date level of compliance.
For the EPUB e-books over which it has some control, the University is in the process of establishing its level of compliance.
This document will be updated as appropriate.
The University makes e-books from third-party publishers available in PDF format via its Library.
It doesn’t have direct control of thecompliance of PDF e-books.
The University also co-publishes e-books in PDF format through the White Rose University Press , of which it does have some direct control.
Compliance of PDF e-book publications is controlled by their respective suppliers.
For the PDF e-books over which it has some control, the University is in the process of establishing its level of compliance.
The University co-publishes e-books in MOBI format through the White Rose University Press , of which it does have some direct control.
For the MOBI e-books over which it has some control, the University is in the process of establishing its level of compliance.
The University makes several browser-based e-reader platforms from third parties available.
It doesn’t have direct control of the compliance of these platforms.
The platforms are as follows:
We know some parts of these browser-based e-reader platforms are not fully accessible.
Compliance of these platforms is controlled by their respective suppliers.
The University makes the Libby mobile e-reader app available from a third party, Overdrive.
It doesn’t have direct control of the compliance of this app.
We know some parts of these mobile e-reader apps are not fully accessible.
Compliance of these apps is controlled by their respective suppliers.
The University of Leeds Online Store offers a way to pay for products, services and events.
This includes access to conferences, events and concerts, as well as consumables, CDs, staff publications and more.
The University of Leeds Online Store is available to students, staff and general public.
Certain products are restricted to students and staff.
The University Online Store is supplied to the University by a third party, Flywire.
The University doesn’t directly control the compliance of the website.
We know some parts of the University of Leeds Online Store are not fully accessible.
An update to the website by the supplier is being explored.
This is anticipated to significantly improve the compliance of the site.
Point 3 of Annex V requires the University to “provide information demonstrating that the service delivery process and its monitoring ensure compliance of the service with point 1 of this Annex and with the applicable requirements of this Directive”.
The University has institution-wide processes that contribute to ensuring compliance across all the in-scope services.
These are briefly explained here.
Any service-specific service delivery processes or monitoring are highlighted as appropriate.
The University high-value procurement process includes requirements that allow the assessment of bids from potential suppliers against compliance with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.2 AA.
Bids that would result in services covered under the EAA are subject to these requirements.
Purchases that don’t meet the high-value threshold are subject to a separate governance process that also allows an opportunity to challenge compliance with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.2 AA.
Services covered by the EAA would be subject to these checks.
Consideration around digital accessibility is also built into IT architecture processes.
This means IT planning and solutions are prompted to assess and address compliance with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.2 AA.
Services covered by the EAA would be subject to this.
University-built solutions and websites are routinely subject to internal digital accessibility testing against the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.2 AA.
Services covered by the EAA would be subject to this testing.
The University conducts checks on websites and browser-based systems controlled by the University and by third parties.
They are assessed for compliance with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.2 AA.
Services covered by the EAA are subject to these checks.
The University uses an automated digital accessibility tool to monitor a high-profile portion of the digital estate against some WCAG 2.2 AA criteria.
In addition, during purchase renewals, the University will routinely request updates from suppliers about progress against compliance with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.2 AA.
In some circumstances, accessibility testing may be conducted to determine the effectiveness of any updates towards compliance made by the supplier.
This statement was first prepared on 26 June 2025.
It was last reviewed on 26 June 2025.
The University of Leeds is a UK higher education institution established in 1904.
It’s part of the Russell Group of research-intensive universities.
To contact the University about accessibility issues in its digital estate, if you need something in an accessible format, or are part of a relevant authority and need to contact the University in relation to the EAA, use the contact methods noted in the section ‘How to contact the University about issues or the EAA’.
The main characteristics of the relevant products and services are provided in web pages directly associated with those products and services.
Summaries are provided in this document throughout the ‘How accessibility requirements are met’ section.
All information about the functionality of digital content and any relevant interoperability of digital content with hardware and software that the University is aware of is covered throughout the ‘How accessibility requirements are met’ section.
All information about charges, prices, costs, payments, contracts, complaints and related detail noted in the consumer information requirements of Directive 2011/83/EU of relevant products and services are provided in web pages directly associated with those products and services.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/about/doc/additional-terms-conditions-onsite-work:
The term ‘Seller’ is replaced by the term ‘Contractor’ and the following amendments shall apply to the University’s standard terms and conditions for work completed on site:
In these terms the following definitions will apply:
Clause 5 is replaced in its entirety by the following:
The Contractor will indemnify the University fully against all claims, proceedings, actions, damages, legal costs, expenses and any other liabilities in respect of any death or personal injury or loss of or damage to property or financial loss, to the extent caused by any negligence or default arising by any act or omission by the Contractor, its staff, subcontractors, agents or representative, or anyone acting on their behalf, during the performance of the contract.
The Contractor shall effect and maintain with a reputable insurance company a policy or policies of insurance cover in respect of all risks which may be incurred by the Contractor, its Staff, agents, sub-contractors or representatives, arising out of the Contractor’s performance of the Contract, in respect of death or personal injury, or loss of or damage to property.
Such policies shall include Professional Indemnity cover which shall cover any financial loss arising from any advice given or omitted to be given by the Contractor.
The Contractor shall hold employer’s liability insurance in respect of Staff in accordance with any legal requirement for the time being in force.
The Contractor shall produce to the University’s Representative requested, copies of all insurance policies referred to in this Condition or other evidence confirming the existence and extent of the cover given by those policies, together with receipts or other evidence of payment of the latest premiums due under those policies.
The terms of any insurance or the amount of cover shall not relieve the Contractor of any liabilities under the Contract.
It shall be the responsibility of the Contractor to determine the amount of insurance cover that will be adequate to enable the Contractor to satisfy any liability referred to in this contract, provided that it’s public liability insurance is not less than £10,000,000.
The Contractor shall be deemed to have satisfied himself as regards the nature and extent of the Services, the means of communication with and access to the Sites, the supply of and conditions affecting labour, the suitability of University’s Property and the Equipment necessary for the performance of the Services, subject to all such matters being discoverable by the Contractor.
All University Property shall remain the property of the University and shall be used in the performance of the Contract and for no other purpose without prior Approval.
On receipt of University Property, the Contractor shall subject it to a visual inspection and such additional inspection and testing as may be necessary to check that it is not defective; within 14 days of receipt of any item of University Property, or such other period as may be approved, the Contractor shall notify the University in writing of any defects discovered; within 14 days after receiving such notification, the University shall inform the Contractor of the action to be taken.
The University shall be responsible for the repair or replacement of University Property unless the need for repair or replacement is caused by the Contractor’s failure to comply with Condition 25.5, or by the negligence or default of the Contractor.
The Contractor shall be responsible for his own costs resulting from any failure of University Property, unless he can demonstrate that the University had caused undue delay in its replacement or repair.
The Contractor shall maintain all items of University Property in a good and serviceable condition, fair wear and tear excepted, and in accordance with the manufacturer’s recommendations.
The Contractor shall be liable for any loss of or damage to any University Property unless and to the extent that the Contractor is able to demonstrate that such loss or damage was caused or contributed to by the negligence or default of the University.
The Contractor shall not in any circumstances have a lien on an University’s Property and shall take all steps necessary to ensure that the title of the University and the exclusion of any lien are brought to the attention of any third party dealing with any University’s Property.
The Contractor shall provide all the Equipment necessary for the provision of the Services.
The Contractor shall maintain all items of Equipment in good and serviceable condition.
All Equipment shall be at the risk of the Contractor and the University shall have no liability for any loss of or damage to any Equipment unless and to the extent that the Contractor is able to demonstrate that such loss or damage was caused or contributed to by the negligence or default of the University.
The Contractor shall provide for the haulage or carriage of Equipment to the University’s Premises and its off-loading and removal if no longer required.
The University may at its option purchase any item of Equipment from the Contractor at any time, if the University considers that the item is likely to be required in the provision of the Services following expiry or termination of the Contract.
The purchase price paid by the University shall be the fair market value.
All Staff shall possess the qualifications and competence appropriate to the tasks for which they are employed.
The Contractor shall provide, at all times, the number of Staff required to fulfil his obligations under the Contract.
The Contractor shall only employ Personnel who have the right to work in the United Kingdom and, in particular, the Contractor shall comply with the Immigration Asylum and Nationality Act 2006, the Immigration Act 2016 and other relevant UK Laws or equivalent Laws in the relevant jurisdiction as well as any regulations or relevant codes of practice regarding the reporting of labour movements, concealed employment and the employment of foreign workers.
The Contractor shall co-ordinate his activities in the provision of the Services with those of personnel and other contractors engaged by the University.
Where the Services are performed on University Premises the Contractor shall have use of the University’s premises without charge as a licensee and shall vacate those premises on completion or earlier termination of the Contract.
The Contractor shall not use the University’s Premises for any purpose or activity other than the provision of the Services unless given prior approval.
Should the Contractor require modifications to the University’s Premises, such modifications shall be subject to prior Approval and at the University’s option be carried out by the University at the Contractor’s expense.
The University shall undertake Approved modification work without undue delay.
Ownership of such modifications shall rest with the University.
The Contractor shall not deliver any Equipment to the University’s Premises outside normal working hours without prior Approval.
The Contractor shall maintain all Equipment and its place of storage within the University’s Premises in a safe, serviceable and clean condition.
On the completion or earlier termination of the Contract, the Contractor shall, subject to the provisions of Condition 27.5, remove all Equipment and shall clear away from the University’s Premises all waste arising from the performance of the Services and shall leave the University's Premises in a clean and tidy condition.
Whilst on the University's Premises, all Staff shall comply with such rules, regulations and other requirements as may be in force in respect of the conduct of persons attending and working on the University’s Premises, including adherence to the Smoke Free Campus rules.
Find out more on our information for suppliers page .
Where the Services are to be performed on the University’s Premises, the University shall grant the Contractor reasonable access to the Site.
If the University gives the Contractor notice that a specifically named member of Staff shall not be admitted to the University’s Premises, the Contractor shall ensure that that person shall not seek admission and shall not be admitted.
If and when so directed in writing by the University, the Contractor shall within seven days provide:
a) a list showing the name and address of every person whom the Contractor wishes to be admitted to the University’s Premises and, where required by the University, every other person who is or may be involved in any other way in the performance of the Contract, the capacity in which each person is or may be so involved and any other particulars required by the University;
b) satisfactory evidence as to the identity of each such person; and
c) any other information about each such person, with any supporting evidence required by the University, including details of birthplace and parentage of any such person who is not a citizen of the United Kingdom by birth, or born within the United Kingdom of parents who were not citizens of the United Kingdom by birth.
Where Staff are required to have a pass for admission to the University’s Premises, the University’s Representative shall, subject to satisfactory completion of approval procedures, arrange for passes to be issued.
Staff who cannot produce a proper pass when required to do so by any appropriate Personnel or agent of the University, or who contravene any conditions on the basis of which a pass was issued, may be refused admission to the University’s Premises or required to leave those Premises if already there.
The Contractor shall promptly return any pass if at any time the University’s Representative so requires or if the person for whom it was issued ceases to be involved in the performance of the Contract.
The Contractor shall promptly return all passes on completion or earlier termination of the Contract.
The Contractor shall perform the Services with all due care, skill and diligence, and in accordance with good industry practice.
Timely provision of the Services is of the essence of the Contract.
The Services shall be performed only on Approved sites.
The Contractor shall upon instruction of the University’s Representative:
Remove from the University’s premises any materials which are not in accordance with the Specification and substitute proper and suitable materials.
Remove and properly re-execute any work which is not in accordance with the Contract, irrespective of any previous testing or payment by the University.
The Contractor shall at his own expense complete the re-executed work correctly in accordance with the Contract within such reasonable time as the University may specify.
The signing by the University’s Representative of time sheets or other similar documents shall not be construed as implying the Contractors compliance with the Contract.
Materials and processes used in connection with the provision of the Services shall be in accordance with the standards set out in the Specification.
On the request of the University’s Representative, the Contractor shall provide proof to the University’s satisfaction that the materials and processes used, or proposed to be used, conform to those standards.
The introduction of new methods or systems which impinge on the provision of the Services shall be subject to prior Approval.
The Contractor shall not normally be prevented from working reasonable overtime hours on the University’s Premises if he so desires, provided that he obtains prior Approval and it is at no additional cost to the University.
Where progress reports are required to be submitted under the Contract, the Contractor shall render those reports at such time and in such form as may be specified or as otherwise agreed between the Parties.
The submission and receipt of progress reports shall not prejudice the rights of either Party under the Contract.
The Contractor shall take all measures necessary to comply with the provisions of any enactment relating to security which may be applicable to the Contractor in the performance of the Services.
The Contractor shall take all reasonable measures, by the display of notices or other appropriate means, to ensure that Staff have notice that all provisions referred to in Condition 35.1 will apply to them and will continue to apply to them, if so applicable, after the expiry or earlier termination of the Contract.
Whilst on the University's Premises, Staff shall comply with all security measures implemented by the University in respect of Personnel and other Persons attending those Premises.
The University shall provide copies of its written security procedures to the Contractor on request.
Where required by the in the interests of security the University shall have the right to carry out any search of Staff or of vehicles used by the Contractor at the University's Premises.
The Contractor shall co-operate with any investigation relating to security which is carried out by the University or by any person who is responsible to the University for security matters and when required by the University's Representative:
a) shall use his best endeavours to make any Staff identified by the University’s Representative available to be interviewed by the University’s Representative, or by a person who is responsible to the University for security matters, for the purposes of the investigation.
Staff shall have the right to be accompanied by the Contractor’s Representative and to be advised or represented by any other person whose attendance at the interview is acceptable to both the University’s Representative and the Contractor's Representative; and
b) shall, subject to any legal restriction on their disclosure, provide all documents, records or other material of any kind which may reasonably be required by the University or by a person who is responsible to the University for security matters, for the purposes of the investigation, so long as the provision of that material does not prevent the Contractor from performing the Services.
The University shall have the right to retain any such material for use in connection with the investigation and, so far as possible, shall provide the Contractor with a copy of any material retained.
The Contractor shall promptly notify the University of any health and safety hazards which may arise in connection with the performance of the Services.
The University shall promptly notify the Contractor of any health and safety hazards which may exist or arise at the University’s Premises and which may affect the Contractor in the performance of the Services.
The Contractor shall inform all Staff engaged in the provision of Services at the University’s Premises of all known health and safety hazards and shall instruct those Staff in connection with any necessary safety measures.
Whilst on the University’s Premises, the Contractor shall comply with any health and safety measures implemented by the University in respect of Personnel and other Persons, including but not limited to students and visitors, working on those Premises.
Download our Health and Safety Policy .
The Contractor shall notify the University’s Representative immediately in the event of any incident occurring in the performance of the Services on the University's Premises where that incident causes any personal injury or any damage to property which could give rise to personal injury.
The Contractor shall take all measures necessary to comply with the requirements of the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974 and any other Acts, orders, regulations and Codes of Practice relating to health and safety, which may apply to Staff in the performance of the Services.
The Contractor shall keep confidential all University Data and information connected with the business of the University or which comes to the Contractor’s knowledge under or as a result of the Contract and shall not disclose it to any third party or use it other than for performance of the Services except:
with the prior written agreement of the University; or
by requirement of law
The provisions of Clause 37.1 shall not apply to such information if it is:
in the public domain otherwise than by failure of the Contractor to comply with Clause 37.1, or
in the possession of the Contractor before these confidentiality obligations came into effect, or
obtained from a third party who is free to disclose the same
If the Contractor enters or has entered into a separate confidentiality agreement with the University, the terms of such confidentiality agreement shall take precedence over this Clause 37 except that any duty on the University to keep information confidential shall not apply to information which must be disclosed:
(a) by statute, including under the Freedom of Information Act 2000; or
(b) by order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
These obligations shall survive expiry or termination of the Contract for five years.
The Contractor shall not assign the Contract in whole or in part or any benefit or interest therein without the prior written consent of the University.
The University may assign or otherwise transfer the Contract in whole or in part or any benefit or interest therein by notice to the Contractor.
The Contractor shall not sub-contract the whole or any part of the Services without the prior written consent of the University.
If such consent is given it shall not relieve the Contractor from any liability or obligation under the Contract and the Contractor shall be responsible for the acts, omissions, defaults or negligence of its sub-contractors, its agents or servants as fully as if they were the acts, omissions, defaults or negligence of the Contractor.
If consent is granted by the University under Clause 38.3 the Contractor shall ensure that all rights, duties and obligations the Contractor has under the Contract shall be included in any Contract that the Contractor enters into with any sub-contractor.
Page updated: September 2020

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/freedom-of-information/doc/make-foi-request:
Find out what you need to do, to find and request information from the University of Leeds.
Under the Freedom of Information Act 2000, if you make a Freedom of Information request, we must inform you whether we hold that information and provide you with it, unless it is exempt as specified below.
We will normally be required to reply to you within 20 working days of receiving your request.
We must make the information requested available unless:
The guidance is not meant to give a definitive or exhaustive list.
If you are considering submitting an Freedom of Information request, some or all of the information may already be available on our Freedom of Information website homepage via our publication scheme .
If you cannot find the information you are looking for you can make a Freedom of Information request by email:
The University reserves the right to charge a fee to cover the cost of duplication, administration and postage of printed copies of any web pages or hard copies of a publication where the number of pages exceeds fourteen.
Any charges, payable in advance, will normally be calculated on a basis of £4+postage for the first 15 pages plus an additional 25p for each additional page requested.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/freedom-of-information/doc/model-publication-scheme:
You can find a wide range of online information about the University via this page.
This Publication Scheme is designed in line with the Information Commissioner’s Model Publication Scheme for universities.
The information contained in the weblinks is available as hard copy on request, although the University reserves the right to make a charge for printing or photocopying costs.
For any enquiries relating to the scheme email the Publication Scheme Co-ordinator via foi@leeds.ac.uk
Please also make sure you read our copyright and legal notices in the final section of this page.
Except where otherwise stated, copyright of all materials published on and all aspects of the design of the University's websites resides with the University of Leeds.
No material may be altered to any degree without the University's written consent.
In accessing the University of Leeds websites you are agreeing to download the content for your own personal and non-commercial use.
Further reproduction for any purpose of any material on the website, supplied through the University's publication scheme, supplied in response to a request for information under the Freedom of Information Act or published by the University in any format without the express and prior permission of the University of Leeds (or the copyright holder) may be an infringement of copyright.
The information made available by the University of Leeds over the World Wide Web does not form part of any contract.
Changing circumstances may cause the University to have to change its provisions at any time.
Whilst every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of the information presented, the University cannot accept responsibility for errors.
The information published on our websites is for general information only.
We aim to ensure that the information is current and accurate but cannot guarantee that all the information is correct.
We accordingly exclude any warranty, express or implied, as to the accuracy, currency, completeness or fitness for any particular purpose of the website or any of its contents.
The University will not be responsible for any claims for damages arising from the use or non-use of its web sites or any of their contents.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/freedom-of-information/doc/enquiries-reviews:
Find out what to do if you have any questions about our Freedom of Information process or you are unhappy with how a request has been processed.
If you have any enquiries or experience any difficulties with the University's Publication scheme or need a response to a request for information, please get in touch with us by contacting the Freedom of Information (FOI) Officer at the University's Governance and Compliance.
Email the Freedom of Information team at FOI@leeds.ac.uk
If you are unhappy with an FOI response you have received, you may ask us to review the response we provided.
Internal review requests should be made in writing using the following contact information.
Your request will be dealt with in line with the principles set out by the Information Commissioner for the internal review of FOI request responses, and in line with the University’s internal procedures.
In particular, you should expect:

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/university-jobs/doc/leaving-checklist:
If you are relocating internationally, the following section provides a pre-arrival checklist, which includes some useful tips and advice to ensure you are prepared for your arrival in the UK.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/university-jobs/doc/arriving-checklist:
Our after arriving checklist provides some information on what things you need to do after arriving in the UK in order to settle in as soon as possible.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/university-jobs/doc/visas-immigration-new-staff:
Find out about the different visa types for international staff working at the University, how to apply and how we can help you.
There are three main visa types for international staff working at the University.
Visa applications are decided by UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI), a department within the UK Home Office.
The University has no influence over decision-making by the endorsing bodies or by UKVI.
The process for each type of visa varies, but is broadly as follows.
Before you apply for the Global talent Visa, you will need an endorsement from one of six endorsing bodies engaged by the UK Home Office.
You can choose from five 'paths' when you apply for endorsement:
Each path has its own requirements and criteria.
You can use our Global Talent Visa checklist (Microsoft Form) to help decide which path is right for you or, if you already know, to allow the University to provide the supporting documents you need.
If you are not sure which path is right for you, please start with 'Academic and research appointments' - you will have the opportunity to check other paths.
The full list of eligible disciplines and sub-disciplines for each endorsing body is available at GOV.UK .
Once you receive your endorsement confirmation, you must apply for your visa within three months.
You can bring family (spouse, partner, children) to the UK as your dependents - they can quote your visa application reference number on their own application, and do not need to apply for endorsement first.
The University of Leeds School where your new role is based will contact you to get information to allow the University to assign you a Certificate of Sponsorship (CoS).
Once this is done, a copy will be emailed to you with information you will need when you complete your visa application and notes on next steps.
Once you have the CoS, you should then apply for your visa.
Once you have your CoS, or your endorsement has been confirmed, you should apply for your visa.
Please note that you cannot apply more than 3 months before the start date of your job.
You apply for your visa online .
The appropriate link to apply and the cost of the application fee will depend on which visa type you apply for, and from where (within the UK or overseas).
You may need some or all the following before you submit your visa application:
You may have to pay the IHS as part of your visa application:
If you are liable for the IHS, you will need to pay it even if you have private medical insurance.
You can use the GOV.UK website to find out if you need to pay the IHS and how much it costs .
The IHS must be paid when you apply for your visa, and any family members will also need to pay this (there is a reduced rate for children).
If your visa is for more than six months, you will need to attend a biometric appointment in your country of application.
Once you submit your visa application, you will be able to book an appointment at a VAC (overseas Visa Application Centre) or UKVCAS (UK Visa and Citizenship Application Services) centre.
You must attend a biometric appointment within 45 days of paying for your visa application.
If you do not book an appointment, you will be sent a reminder which will allow further a specified number of days to enrol.
If biometrics are not enrolled within the specified period, your visa application may be rejected.
All staff must provide right to work documents to the University before starting work.
If you have any queries, please email the International HR team at InternationalHR@leeds.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news/article/5805/andrew-hartle-fighting-with-pride:
In his final years of service in the RAF, anaesthetist Andrew Hartle (Medicine 1987) endured gruelling interviews by service police, was forced to hide relationships, and was followed as he went about everyday life.
The British military’s ban on LGBTQ+ members, which was lifted in 2000, meant he was unable to be his true self.
After much mental torment, he was outed by the News of the World in an article describing an ‘RAF doc’s gay fling with an AIDS victim’.
Andrew now jokes that it made a good story, except for the fact “only the gay bit was true”.
The military ban was ruled unlawful by the European Court of Human Rights in 1999.
In 2023, an apology was made and financial restitution began.
"Nearly 30 years on, and there was finally some recognition for the harm that was done,” said Andrew.
“Nothing can change what happened to me, but the apology was the start of the process.”
The reason why people like me share our stories is to remind others of how bad it was – and that we cannot go backwards.
Andrew joined the RAF as a medical cadet during his second year at Leeds, and went on to enjoy the time of his life.
As a student, he benefitted from funding support and summers spent with the military.
On graduation, he discovered he was well suited to the organisation and structure of life in the forces.
He also found greater clinical freedom in a small hospital environment, lived a busy social life, and was involved in search and rescue helicopter flying and fast jets.
But why join at all, when there was a military ban for LGBTQ+ individuals?
“When I was at Leeds, I was very much in the closet,” Andrew said.
“I really didn’t think the ban applied to me.
“I knew from when I was at school that I was different to everyone else.
I recognise looking back that I was gay, but at the time I didn’t know that’s what it was.”
Growing up in the 1970s, there was no sex education at his school and Andrew had no positive gay role models.
He remembers the general impression that being gay was wrong, a feeling that was hard to shake for the 17-year-old arriving in Leeds.
Despite the existence of Gay Soc and a gay scene at the University, Andrew wasn’t part of it.
When he began a relationship with a male student at Bodington Hall, they kept it a secret – and the increased coverage of the HIV and AIDS pandemic pushed Andrew “further into the closet than I’d been before”.
Whilst hiding in plain sight seemed sustainable at the start of his military career, when Andrew was sent to serve in Cyprus during the Gulf War as an aeromedical officer in 1991, things changed: “It was a turning point for me,” Andrew said.
“I started to realise that if anything happened to me during the war, I would die not having lived my real self.”
He began to live two lives – the real Andrew, and his RAF persona.
The two clashed when he entered a relationship with a man – a more senior RAF officer.
The service police investigated, and Andrew endured a gruelling five-hour interview where he denied everything.
Suspecting he was being followed from then on, he would switch buses on his way to meet people and change direction to lose followers.
“It was years of torment,” Andrew said.
“I eventually decided I was going to leave the RAF.
And that's when I was outed by the News of the World.”
Andrew worked with legal representatives to limit the damaging lies of the story, whilst coping with the reality of leaving the RAF – which was all he had known in his adult life.
“But it was a very efficient way of coming out to everyone you know,” Andrew joked.
“The newspaper has a circulation of around four million people.
“For anyone else trying to negotiate that time in their lives, there is no right way of coming out.
It's your choice who you tell and when you tell them.
Being safe physically, mentally, and psychologically is the single most important thing.”
Andrew describes himself as lucky because a senior colleague helped him to pick up his career quickly at St Mary’s hospital.
He seemed to thrive, breaking countless barriers to become the first openly gay consultant and head of department at the hospital.
He became a professor of practice in 2021, and amongst other executive positions, has been the President of the Association of Anaesthetists.
“I was aggressively ambitious, I think,” Andrew said.
“I wanted to show the RAF what they missed out on.”
But the trauma caught up eventually.
In 2015, he began to address significant mental health problems.
“I had brushed it away, pushed on with my career.
I’d never addressed it, and it’s taken many years to deal with it.
The long-term impact was huge.”
For other LGBTQ+ veterans, that impact also included lost pensions, unemployment, and prison.
Andrew joined Fighting with Pride as a trustee in 2023.
The charity supports LGBTQ+ veterans and their families, helped to bring about an independent review into the ban, and has helped see ranks and medals restored.
He has also reestablished good relations with the RAF – praising their current approach to support LGBTQ+ service members – and is the Honorary Civilian Consultant Advisor in Anaesthetics to the RAF and the President of the Tri-Service Society.
He is the first openly gay man to hold either role.
“I am in a position now to be vocal and share my story to remind others of how bad it was – and that we cannot go backwards.
“Life is still not perfect, but it's a lot better.
We must keep working to improve things.”
Andrew was named in the Leeds Pride 25 in June , a list which celebrates LGBTQ+ individuals and allies from the global Leeds community making a positive impact in the Pride space.
Read more about the work of Fighting With Pride
For more information, email Ed Newbould, Digital Communications Officer at the University of Leeds, at e.w.newbould@leeds.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/main-index/news/article/5796/university-community-recognised-in-birthday-honours:
Professor Natasha Merat, an experimental psychologist who seeks to understand how road users interact with new technologies, has been named an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) for services to future transport systems.
The King's Birthday Honours mark the achievements and service of extraordinary people across the UK.
Professor Merat is research group leader of the Human Factors and Safety Group in the Institute for Transport Studies at the University of Leeds.
She is responsible for the strategic direction of research conducted at Virtuocity , the University’s unique programme for city simulation and co-design, which includes a state-of-the-art driving simulator.
Professor Merat studies factors such as driver distraction and impairment and is an internationally recognised expert in studying human factors of highly automated vehicles.
“I am deeply honoured and humbled to have received this award.
It was completely unexpected and I was in shock for quite a few minutes when the letter arrived a few Saturdays ago,” she said.
“I am grateful to be recognised for my contributions to future transport systems, in my role as a psychologist and human factors expert.
“I could not have done this without my amazing team.
All I can say is that we have only just started, with lots of exciting and significant activities required in this space, to ensure these new forms of mobility are sustainable, accepted and safe to use.”
Stewart Ross, Deputy Chief Operating Officer at the University of Leeds, has been named a Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) for services to sport, both nationally and in the Leeds City Region.
Stewart was instrumental to the establishment of British Universities and Colleges Sport (BUCS) , which provides sporting opportunities for more than 100,000 students across the UK every year.
He played a key role in the establishment of Triathlon Leeds, a partnership between the city’s universities, British Triathlon and Leeds City Council.
Based at the Brownlee Centre at the University of Leeds, this has led to Leeds becoming the most successful city in the world for triathlon, supporting Great Britain teams and multiple Olympic and World medal winners including the Brownlee brothers.
Stewart led a team that brought the Chinese Olympic team to the University of Leeds in 2012 for its pre-Games training camp and was central to welcoming the World Triathlon Series to the city.
He also helped to launch Woodhouse Moor parkrun – the first parkrun event outside London.
Stewart said: “I am thrilled to receive this MBE and would really like to recognise and thank all the people who have volunteered or worked with me.
“Sport can be such an accessible, inclusive thing to be part of.
It is fabulous for our wellbeing and a unique way to be a part of and contribute to your community.
I very much hope we can continue to value its impact and provide opportunities to all to fulfil their potential and find some fun while doing it.”
With more than 30 years of senior management experience in higher education, Stewart will take up a new role as Chief Operating Officer at Durham University in August 2025.
Professor Shearer West CBE, Vice-Chancellor and President of the University of Leeds, said: “Universities play a pivotal role in society by delivering excellence in research, innovation and community engagement.
Our hugely talented people are making a lasting impact both in our region and around the world.
“These well-deserved awards are testament to the commitment and expertise that exists all around our University.
I applaud each of our colleagues who have been acknowledged for their remarkable contributions.”
A number of Leeds alumni have also been recognised in the Honours, including:
Helen Keneally (Foundation Degree Professional Studies in Family Support 2010), Children Centre Manager, North Lincolnshire Council, has been awarded a British Empire Medal (BEM) for services to the community in Lincolnshire.
Nigel Lister (Physics 1990), Environment, Health, Safety, Security and Quality Director at Nuclear Waste Services receives a BEM for services to the nuclear industry and to mountain rescue.
Richard Manning (Law 1966), Chair of United Joint Israel Appeal Programming Leeds, has been awarded a BEM for services to the City of Leeds and to the Jewish Community.
Triathlete Alistair Brownlee MBE (Sport Science and Physiology 2009, Hon LLD 2013) receives an OBE for services to triathlon and charity.
Dr Yvonne Greenstreet (Medicine, 1985) has been awarded an OBE for services to the UK and US biotechnology and life sciences industries.
Across a 30-year career, Yvonne has worked to develop and deliver medicines to improve the lives of patients and to tackle ill health.
Dr Greenstreet began her career practicing obstetrics and gynaecology and currently serves as the Chief Executive Officer for Alnylam Pharmaceuticals.
Carin van Doorn (Medicine 1997), Head of Congenital Cardiac Surgery and Consultant Cardiac Surgeon at The Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust, receives an OBE for services to children's heart surgery and to charity.
Theresa Mason (MEd Primary Education 2002), Chair, Bradford Diocesan Academies Trust, has been awarded an OBE for services to education.
Wayne Norrie (Geographical Studies 1994), Chief Executive Officer, The Greenwood Academies Trust, also receives an OBE for services to education.
Professor Andrew Westby (Food Science & Microbiology 1984), Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Research and Knowledge Exchange, University of Greenwich, has been awarded an OBE for services to research in food security and leadership of the Natural Resources Institute.
Stephen Foots (MBA 1994), Chief Executive Officer of Croda, receives a Commander of the British Empire (CBE) for services to the chemical and life sciences industries.
Caroline Cotterell (Economics and History of Scientific Thought 1991), lately Director, Resilient Landscape and Seas, Natural England, has been awarded a CBE for services to the natural environment.
Ian Dyson QPM DL (History 1983), lately Commissioner, City of London Police, receives a CBE for voluntary and charitable services and to policing.
Gabriele Hegerl (Hon DLitt 2018) FRS FRSE, Professor of Climate System Science, University of Edinburgh, has been awarded a CBE for services to climate science
Janet Hughes (English and Psychology 1997), Director General at the UK Cabinet Office, also receives a CBE for public service.
Gary Bennett (MSc Fire and Explosion Engineering 2005), Founder of the Scottish Emergency Rescue Association has been awarded an MBE for services to charity through the support to fire services internationally.
Dennis Ashton (Education 1968) Founder of Stardome, receives an MBE for services to astronomy education and to charity.
Stephen Barnett (MBA 2007), Director of Care Homes, The Royal British Legion, has been awarded an MBE for services to veterans.
Catherine Drew (PGDip Deaf Education 2020), Deputy Head Teacher, Frank Barnes School for Deaf Children, receives an MBE for services to education.
Christine Lingard (MEd Educational Psychology 1989), lately Headteacher at Ravenscliffe High School, West Yorkshire, has been awarded and MBE for services to children and young people with Special Educational Needs.
Alan Perkins (MSc Medical Physics 1979, Honorary Fellow, Royal College of Physicians, receives an MBE for services to patient care and clinical science.
Dr Amanda Wilcox (PhD Biology 1996), University Secretary at Durham University, has been awarded an MBE for services to higher education.
Professor Lindsay Stringer, Professor of Environment and Development at the University of York has been named as a Medallist of the Order of the British Empire for services to environmental development.
Professor Stringer worked at the University of Leeds from 2007 to 2020 and was Director of the Sustainability Research Institute.
In 2015 she was presented with a Women of Achievement Award.
Professor Becky Malby, Founder of the Ilkley Clean River Group and Ilkley Pool and Lido Community Group, has been named a Medallist of the British Empire for services to national river cleanliness and to the community in Ilkley, West Yorkshire.
Professor Malby is a former Director of the Centre for Innovation in Health Management at the University of Leeds.
Susan Yeandle, Professor of Sociology at the University of Sheffield and formerly of the University of Leeds, has been awarded an OBE for services to research into care and caring.
For further information, please contact the University of Leeds press office at pressoffice@leeds.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news/article/5795/alan-yentob-remembering-a-creative-giant:
There are very few hit BBC shows that Alan Yentob (Law 1968, Hon LLD 2010) didn’t influence during his career at the corporation.
From his breakthrough documentary Cracked Actor with David Bowie, to various senior commissioning roles – bringing to life the likes of Strictly Come Dancing, The Great British Bake Off, The Office, The Thick of It, Dragon’s Den, and Life on Mars – Alan has been described by The Guardian as “the most influential broadcaster in Britain over the last 50 years”.
Alan worked across many positions of significant influence at the BBC – including Creative Director from 2004 to 2015 – but programme making was his true passion.
Prior to his death on 24 May 2025, he returned to making and presenting the Imagine series with celebrities from the worlds of art, film, music, literature and dance.
There is a pleasure in helping others to realise what they want to do.
But I enjoy making things better.
Alan arrived at Leeds to study law, but when he spoke about his time at the University, he was most nostalgic for the student drama society.
He was a talent on stage and performed in Max Frisch’s “The Chinese Wall” with Leeds Theatre Group for a week-long stint at London’s Garrick Theatre, winning the Sunday Times Cup for best full-length play.
On returning to Leeds to give an alumni lecture entitled ‘The Secret Life of the BBC’ in 2004, Alan said: “It was here that my passion for movies and broadcasting was developed.
In those days it was a powerhouse for drama.”
When he graduated, Alan joined the BBC as a trainee – the only non-Oxbridge candidate of his intake.
He wrote in his application: “My dramatic debut at the age of nine as Mistress Page in The Merry Wives of Windsor was greeted with a gratifying critique by one of my contemporaries: ‘You ought to be a film star 'cos you've got smashing legs.’ Whether it was those smashing legs that tipped the balance will never be known.”
Alan worked for the BBC World Service before becoming an assistant director on arts documentary programme Omnibus – where he would make his name in painting a picture of Bowie’s struggles with drug addiction.
The programme was described by The Rolling Stone magazine as "greatest rockumentary ever".
He went on to take over BBC Arts programme Arena, which was voted one of 50 most influential programmes of all time.
In 1987 Alan became channel controller for BBC2, and in 1993 for BBC1 – and he was one of the youngest ever to hold the roles.
In 2004, the year he became BBC Creative Director, Alan outlined in his speech to Leeds alumni that the corporation could thrive with the arrival of the digital age if they created television that would inform, educate and entertain, but “with flair, with imagination and with intelligence”.
Against the backdrop of a continually changing media landscape, Alan was true to his mantra across the decades, ushering in countless hit shows – including Absolutely Fabulous, Have I Got News For You, and Wallace and Gromit – and launching children’s channels CBBC and CBeebies.
After stepping down in 2015, Alan continued to pursue his true passion – working in front of the camera as a presenter and interviewer.
He fronted Imagine, and over his career he profiled the likes of Charles Saatchi, Maya Angelou, Grayson Perry, Toni Morrison, Bob Geldof and Kazuo Ishiguro.
In 2010 he was awarded an honorary degree by the University, and in 2024 a CBE for services to the arts and media.
As the the congregation heard at his honorary graduation ceremony, such accolades are deserved recognition for one of the most “creative and influential individuals working in the cause of public service broadcasting”.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni-community/doc/managing-global-alumni-group :
Alumni groups recognise and celebrate the global community of Leeds graduates in more than 190 countries – and they don't happen without you.
Together, alumni like you are helping to build and grow a strong and supportive community of 312,000 Leeds graduates worldwide.
We want your group to be a great success and the following guide provides some helpful information.
If you have any queries, please email the Advancement team at alumni@leeds.ac.uk .
Thank you for your interest in forming a Leeds alumni global group.
What do you want alumni to gain from participating in the group?
Think about one or more of the following:
Having clear aims will help promote your group and ensure that group communications and activities meet alumni expectations.
There is strength in numbers and from experience it is best when the group leader has at least one other person to help with group activities so that the workload is shared.
Whether your group is small or large, you should consider who is responsible for the following key roles and tasks:
As the group leader, we encourage you to actively promote and maintain your social media platform on a regular basis.
To get you started we suggest the following:
As alumni, your support can have a big impact on the future success of the University.
Activity and priorities will vary depending on where you are in the world so look out for opportunities to get involved in some of the following activities:
Face-to-face events are a great opportunity to bring people together in a fun and informal way.
You may want to consider some of the following types of events:
Other ideas that may be useful or fun at your event might be:
Where possible email the Advancement team at alumni@leeds.ac.uk about six to eight weeks before your event.
We can send invitations and reminders to promote the event and encourage attendance.
Simply provide us with the following information:
Remember, events must be self-funded by alumni.
To encourage people to commit to the event you can request payment from attendees in advance and we recommend all payments are made online.
Don’t forget to keep a record of who has paid and ensure they receive a receipt.
Your alumni group is all set and you can now start planning activities to engage local alumni.
We look forward to hearing from you soon.
#leedsalumni

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news/article/5711/you-may-call-me-doctor-sherlock-star-and-doctor-who-writer-awarded-honorary-degree:
On receiving an honorary degree from the University, Mark Gatiss discusses his time at Bretton Hall, the alchemy between The League of Gentlemen, and the future of the arts.
An avid fan of Doctor Who, Mark Gatiss (Drama 1989) spent much of his childhood dreaming of becoming a doctor.
“I could only pretend, though, because all I could ever do was act and write,” Mark says.
“I was hopeless at everything else.”
For an actor, writer and director of such repute, a satisfying ending – in the form of an honorary degree – is only right.
His accolades now include the Laurence Olivier Best Actor award for his portrayal of Sir John Gielgud in The Motive and the Cue.
He co-created and starred in the BAFTA and Emmy-winning BBC series Sherlock.
He’s starred in Wolf Hall, Game of Thrones, and Mission Impossible.
He’s written for and appeared in the modern revival of Doctor Who.
But Mark is best known for his part in The League of Gentlemen, the award-winning comedy-horror sitcom set in Royston Vasey, a fictional town in northern England.
He met fellow co-creators, Steve Pemberton and Reece Shearsmith whilst studying at Bretton Hall – which later became the core of the School of Performance and Cultural Industries of the University of Leeds.
"I still remember when me and Steve saw Reece’s photo on the arrivals board,” Mark says.
“He was pulling a stupid face, of course.
The three of us bonded immediately.
We’d basically had the same childhood.”
That meant northern working-class roots, watching heroes on the television and enjoying the same comedians and films.
Growing up in Sedgefield, Country Durham, television provided Mark with a window to the rest of the world (and beyond, in the case of Doctor Who).
He would draw pictures of his heroes then watch the credits, trying to figure out the difference between the script editor and the producer.
“I knew it was what I wanted to do, but it didn’t feel achievable.
“The people on TV were always posh, and there was no reflection of life as I knew it.
Even the alien invasions John Pertwee was dealing with [in Doctor Who] took place in the southeast of England.”
The emergence and success of Alan Bennett changed that.
The actor, author, playwright and screenwriter’s humble beginnings helped Mark to believe it was possible.
Mark took drama at school, attended youth theatre on Friday nights, drama club after hours, and put on countless shows at the Arts Centre in Darlington.
He eventually received a grant to attend Bretton Hall.
It’s very hard to give advice.
It’s traditional to sit from a place of great sagacity and give out wisdom.
But none of us know.
Mark, Steve and Reece honed their craft at the College, where they had the freedom to put on shows in a relaxed environment with the perfect facilities to do it.
“Bretton let us try things out.
We became very self-reliant, and we became very optimistic.
We were isolated which made it feel quite special, I think.
It allowed us to have a more imaginative approach.”
And, perhaps, Bretton provided inspiration for some of the characters in The League of Gentlemen?
“No comment,” laughs Mark.
Mark recalls the trio, along with Leeds alum and co-writer  Jeremy Dyson (Philosophy 1989) staying in to watch ‘Carry On Screaming!’ instead of joining their classmates on bonfire night.
“If there was a biopic – which there wouldn’t be – that's how it would start.
Four boys hunched in front of the TV and missing the fireworks.
We were obsessed.
“It’s also no accident that we’re all northerners.
The North is mocked in a way by southern attitudes, but it's a very distinctive, special and funny place.
The people are friendlier.
As they say in Red Riding, ‘we do things differently here’.”
The four won the Perrier Award at the Edinburgh Fringe Festival in 1997.
The League transferred from stage to radio and then television in 1999, and is credited with bringing a radical new approach to comedy, a blend between the disturbing, moving, and brilliantly funny.
“I believe strongly that we shouldn’t obsess about demarcation of genre,” Mark says.
“Life is a strange mixture so it’s silly to carve things up into pointless boxes.
A horror film can be funny for the first 10 minutes so you grow to like the characters.
It’s important to be able to do that.”
For one who has bucked the trend through his life, his message to new graduates was similarly refreshing – as he gave a warning for the future of the arts: “It’s very hard to give advice.
“Television might be more representative than it was when I was young, but the paths into it are ceasing to exist and opportunities are fewer.
The Arts Centre I used to perform in as a child is a block of flats now.
Bretton Hall has gone.
“The arts are the first to go because of a systematic and conscious downgrading of their importance.
“We have to keep the flame alive.
In a dark world, you’re going to have to fight for it.”
Watch the full interiew with Mark Gatiss on YouTube

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news/article/5675/the-health-impacts-of-climate-change:
Principal Climate Change Scientist at UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA) Helen Macintyre (PhD Atmospheric Science 2011) explains why the health impacts of climate change should be on everyone’s agenda.
What is the most pressing health impact of climate change in the UK?
“The evidence tells us temperature records are being regularly broken, floods are reaching homes they haven’t reached before, and the climate is becoming more suited to certain types of mosquito,” says Helen.
“Those three are happening now.”
After a decade of work at the UKHSA, formerly Public Health England, it is only recently that Helen feels the health implications of climate change are starting to gain recognition in the wider population.
“For many people, addressing climate change has often been viewed as saving the environment, and less so about people.
But in reality, the climate crisis is also a health crisis; our changing climate will impact upon people's health and wellbeing.”
The shift in focus towards health was demonstrated by the introduction of a dedicated health day at the 28th annual Conference of the Parties (COP28) – which will be repeated at COP29.
“It was great to see a health declaration signed at COP, underlining the importance of this.
People are realising it’s going to impact everyone.”
Increased temperatures are going to be particularly dangerous for older people – and the number of people over 85 in the UK is projected to more than treble in the next 40 years.
Helen works at the UKHSA’s Centre for Climate and Health Security (CCHS) – a Centre headed by Professor Lea Berrang Ford from the University’s Priestley International Centre for Climate Futures.
She uses computational modelling, analytical research, and evidence synthesis to provide the best scientific advice to local authorities, ministers and other stakeholders on the health impacts of climate change.
She draws on her time as an atmospheric scientist at Leeds – where she used modelling to investigate the lifetime of gases, including greenhouse gases – to carry out her work.
“Leeds taught me a lot about atmospheric science,” Helen says.
“It was great.
I was there at the time the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and Al Gore won the Nobel Peace Prize for their work on climate change, and Leeds academic Piers Forster was one of the lead authors on that.
It was wonderful to be rubbing shoulders with people like him in the corridors.”
After time as a researcher at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), Helen became more interested in the applied aspects of climate change, and brought her experience to the UKHSA.
Some of the most pressing evidence presented to Helen and her team comes first hand from local authorities who have witnessed that “climate change is happening now”.
Secondary impacts add to pressures – people who experience flooding are at higher risk of depression, anxiety and post-traumatic stress disorder, for example.
“We also have medical entomologists gathering data in the field,” Helen explains, as she highlights the scale of the work.
They set traps to detect mosquitoes and the potential for vector-borne diseases such as dengue and Chikungunya viruses which are moving further north each year, and may become prevalent in the south-east and other parts of the UK in the future.
“The impacts upon health will not be distributed evenly either.
Increased temperatures are going to be particularly dangerous for older people – and the number of people over 85 in the UK is projected to more than treble in the next 40 years.”
There are other areas of Helen’s work for which the evidence is less certain – and may later become an issue, or even have positive outcomes.
“Things like drought, wildfires, and aeroallergens in the UK show less conclusive patterns.
If warmer weather leads to people spending more time outside, that may impact the number of skin cancer cases.
“On the other hand, exposure to sunlight has positive effects on mental health, and the increased vitamin D might be good for health.
It’s important to continue to build the evidence so we can better understand these outcomes.”
Helen and her team at the CCHS also consider the response to the climate crisis, and implications for health, which are not always straightforward.
Active travel, for example, can both reduce emissions and boost health outcomes.
Better insulated homes, on the other hand, lead to reduced ventilation, which could increase risks from indoor sources of air pollution – such as particles from cooking.
One of Helen’s proudest pieces of research on interventions reconnected her with Leeds.
She used a model developed at the University to map the impact of white roofs on buildings, which reflect sunlight and keep the air cooler.
The modelled reduction in deaths during a heat wave event was picked up in IPCC reports.
But despite capacity for innovation, it may be that the more natural options are most viable: “Nature-based solutions show a lot of promise,” Helen says.
Such schemes might include greening of urban landscapes and infrastructure, river or wetland restoration, and improvement of rural landscapes.
“People are starting to recognise the importance of green spaces for people’s mental and physical health, for biodiversity and for flood management.”
Ultimately, Helen’s recommendations on the risks and the most effective solutions are just the first piece in the puzzle.
“Our role is to provide the evidence in a way that is useful to our partners so they are able to prepare and respond.”
The UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA) prevents, prepares for and responds to infectious diseases, and environmental hazards, to keep all our communities safe, save lives and protect livelihoods.
UKHSA is an executive agency of the UK Government, sponsored by the Department of Health and Social Care.
Discover more about UKHSA on the UKHSA website .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news-alumni/news/article/5655/reducing-cancer-inequalities-for-black-people:
Sigourney Bonner (Human Physiology 2014) is driving change for Black people, who are under-represented in cancer research and over-represented in cancer mortality.
Encouraged by her lecturers, when she graduated from Leeds Sigourney wanted to progress into medical research.
The loss of her aunt to cancer made her more determined to change lives.
Sigourney ticked all the boxes for postgraduate research – a top degree from a Russell Group University, a year in industry, summer placements, a scholarship award for top performing undergraduates.
Yet she wasn’t accepted onto PhDs, while fellow graduates with similar experiences were enrolled by the next term.
It took another four years before Sigourney was successful.
“Until I started my PhD, I’d never met a Black woman with a PhD,” says Sigourney, who is now a postdoctoral associate at the Cancer Research UK Cambridge Institute.
“I often felt I was the most qualified candidate, and yet I was at a disadvantage before I entered the room because of how I looked.”
Sigourney worked as a scientist at major pharmaceutical companies Pfizer and AstraZeneca before starting her PhD in paediatric brain tumours at Cambridge.
Once there, she founded Black in Cancer, an organisation which helps to make sure the cancer research sector represents the wider population.
It was established at a time when social justice movements such as Black Lives Matter were helping to start conversations about spaces Black people weren’t normally seen.
“So I started to look at my experiences and my community,” says Sigourney.
With research also highlighting that Black people – like her aunt – are over-represented in cancer mortality, Sigourney had two challenges she set out to address.
“Without visible role models, you might subconsciously narrow your options,” Sigourney says.
Although Black role models in science were lacking, Sigourney “felt at home” at Leeds and was involved in a number of societies; she was vice-president of the Faculty of Biological Sciences Society, an academic representative, and a mentor.
“I realised that I’ve been creating inclusive communities since I was an undergraduate.
Leeds truly gave me that sense of activism and the ability to change things.
“I was introduced to neuroscience labs by Leeds lecturers who then encouraged and supported me, and that’s why mentors at Black in Cancer can be from any background – so long as they have an awareness of the challenges the Black community faces.”
Black in Cancer’s pipeline programme helps to increase Black scientists in the field – from undergraduate mentorship and lab placement schemes, to distinguished investigator awards for established principal investigators.
They have built partnerships with universities and research organisations in the UK and the US, created a conference series, developed a mentorship programme, and helped Black researchers access over £1.5m of funding.
The individual stories tell me that the work is making a difference.
The second focus of Black in Cancer sits closest to Sigourney’s heart: “My aunt didn’t know what kind of breast cancer she had when she died.
I didn’t know either.
Black patients don’t always advocate for themselves or ask the right questions because it’s such an overwhelming experience.”
A study by Cancer Research UK and NHS Digital found Black women were more likely than white women to be diagnosed with late-stage cancer.
Research by the Race Equality Foundation also found Black patients reported more negative experiences of cancer care than white patients.
“The reasons are complicated.
It can be because individuals are unwilling to take time off to see a GP because of financial implications.
There may be a lack of awareness about warning signs, embarrassment or a lack of confidence talking about symptoms.
“But also Black voices are sometimes not heard.
Referrals to oncologists can take longer – often three times as many visits to a GP for those from ethnic minority backgrounds.
Many give up in that time.”
The Black in Cancer team run awareness seminars within communities.
They have cancer survivors describe their experience, clinicians explain diagnosis and treatments, and researchers talk about work in the lab.
Social media programmes help to get rid of myths around cancer, and increase diagnosis and testing.
Four years in, and already the impact has been greater than Sigourney ever imagined.
In 2021 she was named in the Forbes 30 under 30 list for her work in science and healthcare.
But despite the wide-reaching impact across the UK and the USA, it is the individual stories that mean the most: “Students telling us a placement changed their life, or patients saying we’ve helped them find a support group, that’s the important bit for me.
“The individual stories tell me that the work is making a difference.”
Visit the Black in Cancer website to find out more about the programme.
For more information, contact Ed Newbould, Digital Communications Officer at the University of Leeds, by email on e.w.newbould@leeds.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news/article/5625/founding-father-of-ground-breaking-cancer-treatment-leaves-a-lasting-legacy:
Clinical pharmacologist Craig Jordan died in June 2024, but his research into targeted cancer treatment and his support for Leeds students continue to change lives today.
It is with great sadness that the University of Leeds learned of the death of Craig Jordan (Pharmacy and Pharmacology 1969, DSc 1985, PhD 1973, Hon DMed 2001) in June 2024 at the age of 76.
Craig’s research into selective receptor modulators – most notably tamoxifen – opened new routes to the treatment and prevention of breast cancer.
His discovery triggered a series of breakthroughs in selective nuclear receptor modulators used to treat major diseases and conditions, including endometrial cancer, osteoporosis and menopausal symptoms.
Nearly 40 years on from Craig’s discovery, tamoxifen continues to be a key medication for the treatment and prevention of breast cancer.
Craig Jordan made key breakthroughs whilst working at Leeds
Craig was born in Texas with dual US and UK nationality, and moved to Bramhall, Cheshire as a child.
He moved to Leeds to study pharmacology in 1966.
He received a scholarship from the Medical Research Council to undertake a PhD at Leeds.
It was here that his lifelong fascination with oestrogen receptors was born.
He showed that tamoxifen could stop tumours growing by blocking the female hormone oestrogen from locking onto cells in the breast at specific sites called oestrogen receptors.
However, his theories were met with scepticism from colleagues at a time when chemotherapy was perceived as the cure to all cancers
“It was a fight to get my research rationale accepted,” Craig told the Royal Medical Society in 2022.
“There was a one-dimensional idea that tamoxifen should be given as a short-term treatment.
I’d go to meetings to talk about tamoxifen and people would ask how I knew it worked when it didn’t have any side effects.
“My approach was proven when the results of an Edinburgh clinical trial, published by The Lancet in 1987, showed that long-term tamoxifen treatment for five years kept people alive.”
Professor Jordan went on to hold a number of positions in both the US and UK – including as a lecturer at Leeds, and as Chairman of the Scientific Advisory Board at Leeds Institute of Molecular Medicine from 2008 to 2011.
He was honoured with a number of notable awards during his lifetime, including being made a Companion of the Order of St Michael and St George in the 2019 Birthday Honours for services to women's health by Queen Elizabeth II.
He was awarded an honorary degree by the University of Leeds in 2001, and honorary fellowship by the Royal Society for Medicine in 2008.
Craig was committed to giving future generations the opportunity to make further scientific breakthroughs.
As well as providing scholarships to students, Craig endowed a number of prizes at the University, including the Jordan Prize in Medicinal Chemistry for the top graduating student of Medicinal Chemistry and the Craig Jordan/PR Radford Prize, awarded annually to the best PhD student thesis in the Astbury Centre.
“Leeds meant opportunity to me,” Craig said in an interview with the University in 2013 .
“It allowed me to grow, to blossom, and to do the things that I wanted to do.
All the elements that became my life were founded at Leeds.
“I’m giving back so people can have the courage to move forward with confidence.”
For further details, email Ed Newbould, Digital Communications Officer, University of Leeds at e.w.newbould@leeds.ac.uk.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news/article/5586/bake-off-science-and-lgbtq-activism-the-many-colours-of-craig-poku:
Data scientist Craig Poku advocates for minorities working in STEM, acting as the role model he never had early in his career.
When his PhD hit a brick wall, Craig Poku (PhD Environmental Sciences 2019) tried his hand at baking.
It was a distraction from the experiments and the writing.
“The first loaf was raw but somehow overcooked at the same time,” Craig laughs.
“But the more you do something, the better you get, so I vowed to bake a new loaf every week.”
Pokubakes is now a thriving sidearm to Craig’s career as a data scientist – his recipes have featured in Tesco, and he’s appeared as a special guest on TV show The Great British Bake-Off Extra Slice.
Rather than conflict with his scientific mindset, the artistry complemented Craig’s work – and he found things began to flow with his studies too.
“It was at that time I began to embrace my queerness.
As my followers grew, people reached out to ask me for food advice, but also asked questions about data and academia and my experiences as a queer man.”
Until that point, Craig hadn’t felt able to be openly queer in academia.
“I just focussed on work.
People didn’t talk about their relationships, so why would I talk about mine?”
But when he did, Craig discovered he wasn’t alone.
Now a trustee for Pride in STEM, an organisation that supports LGBTQ+ scientists and engineers around the world, Craig helps to challenge the general public’s perceptions of what scientists should be like, embracing diversity in all its forms.
“To get to my PhD in the first place, I’d already overcome a lot of statistics,” Craig says.
“Black boys are more likely to be excluded from school, they face a biased education system – and that’s before you get to university applications and PhDs.
It’s no surprise I was the only Black British person in my department at Leeds.”
Raised by his mother in South London, it took four meetings with an undergraduate supervisor at Kings College London before Craig even considered doing a PhD.
He had no role models to follow into academia, but Craig credits the Black women in his life who helped give him the belief to progress.
“Nobody in my family had even thought about doing a PhD.
I was the first on my mum’s side to go to university at all.
And there was nobody like me doing it growing up.”
Once studying, Craig cites being Black as his greatest challenge in academia – particularly because it was the more open and obvious of his minority traits.
“Once you add in that I identify as queer, it gets even messier.
I didn’t feel safe going on certain fieldwork trips in certain countries, for example, because of their laws.
LGBTQ+ people are more likely to face barriers when progressing through their careers.
“But Leeds was that place where I developed my artistic side alongside science work.
I began to discover my queerness and embraced it, and I’m grateful for the space to do that.”
When he did open up about his sexuality, Craig discovered queer academics in the department that he hadn’t known existed.
“I wish we’d had those conversations at the start.
It would have been nice to know I wasn’t the only one navigating the academic environment under those constraints.”
In an ideal world, anyone could go to any space and do science to the best of their ability.
Craig is now a data scientist at Datasparq, which helps companies design ethical data solutions.
Through his work, Craig highlights potential threats faced by the LGBTQ+ community in areas such as Artificial Intelligence, where tools used to identify gender or sexual identity have been used to target individuals – particularly in countries where homosexuality is illegal.
He also shines a light on dangerous biases against minorities in data and research.
“There’s a belief that research and data is objective fact and it doesn’t matter who does the work, you’ll get the same result.
But the reality is very different.
Individual experience and societal norms influence data collection and exclude certain groups.
Published research is determined by a peer review process which has subjectivity and results in a lack of representation from LGBTQ+ researchers.”
His work at Pride in STEM provides an avenue of support for LGBTQ+ scientists and researchers.
Within the role, he hosts a podcast and panel discussions which cover topics such as asexuality, race in medicine and data biases.
“Things are getting a lot better in the academic world compared to when I started around ten years ago when I didn’t feel comfortable with who I was in that environment.
“In an ideal world, Pride in STEM wouldn’t exist and anyone could go to any space and do science to the best of their ability.
The reality is that it’s still a problem, and there will still be people in the situations I was in.
It's clear because we still get a lot of online abuse with this work.
“But I have a platform and I want to ensure I’m doing what I can to ensure people are being kept safe and I can advocate for them.”
Craig’s experiences highlight the importance of the Pride Global Scholarships: a flagship initiative for which the University is seeking philanthropic support.
Spearheaded by Professor Paul Johnson, this ambitious initiative will support postgraduate researchers to undertake rigorous research to better understand and address challenges faced by LGBTQ+ people around the world.
As highlighted by Craig, all around the world LGBTQ+ people face issues of discrimination and violence – from name-calling and harassment to being denied employment or healthcare.
With donor support, the University could address these critical issues – a commitment which extends far beyond campus, to reach LGBTQ+ people across the UK and around the world.
Visit Pokubakes for the latest news and baking ideas from Craig.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news/article/5552/directing-the-stars-alum-film-director-on-latest-release:
Writer and director Brook Driver wrote his first full feature screen play during third year at Leeds.
In April 2024, his debut film Swede Caroline was released in cinemas across the UK.
While studying at Leeds, Brook Driver (English Literature and Philosophy 2014) remembers watching British comedy Sightseers, starring Alice Lowe and Richard Lumsden.
“The English setting and humour were exactly what I enjoyed,” he says.
“I realised that was what I wanted to create.”
But he never anticipated that 10 years later Lowe and Lumsden would be stood on his film set, acting out his script in a film which reviewers have described as “comedic perfection”.
Swede Caroline is a mockumentary about competitive giant vegetable growers, released in UK cinemas on 19 April 2024.
At the mention of the title, Brook smiles.
“You’ve got to try to catch a bit of attention with the title and log line,” he says.
“We are in a crowded market place fighting for attention.
That title gives a sense of the tone and you can see the world a little bit.
But this story also has emotional depth and heart.”
Watch the trailer for Brook Driver's new film on Youtube
The film follows the story of Caroline (Jo Hartley) as she readies herself for a giant vegetable-growing championship, only for the vegetable-growing world to be rocked by scandal as her prized marrow plants are stolen.
A blockbuster cast catches the eye, but as an independent film – meaning it was produced outside the major film studio system – securing Jo Hartley (This is England, After Life and In My Skin) in the lead role proved the most important.
“We had Jo in mind for the role from the beginning,” Brook says.
“But she had to take a big leap of faith because we are first time directors.
We managed to arrange a coffee with her, thankfully Jo liked the script, and that was that.
“Once Jo was on board, others followed.
People are more likely to put their faith in you because someone else has.”
Brook (left) emphasises the importance of securing actor Jo Hartley (right) in the lead role of Caroline
Although he is a first time director, Brook has been writing for as long as he can remember.
“Stories, journals, blogs – I’ve always been writing.
I did a year abroad from Leeds at the University of South Carolina, and did some modules in film writing and writing for screens.
I loved it.”
When he returned to Leeds for his final year, Brook wrote his first full feature screen play.
He sold it a year later to a producer from the Harry Potter franchise – and although it was never used, it gave Brook the confidence he needed.
He worked as a runner for a production company before becoming a video professional and then creative director.
“My number one piece of advice for anyone looking to get into the industry is to keep going.
It’s really hard and you get so many rejections for every script and idea.
When I sold my first script I thought I’d made it, but the film has never been made.
“There are a million failures behind every successful film.”
One idea which refused to go away stemmed from an article about giant vegetable growers, and Brook began to develop a number of characters based in that world.
“I read the article, and it was completely sincere and serious.
I could imagine myself getting into it and trying to grow the biggest vegetable.
I recognised there was a funny world there.”
Brook spoke to a number of giant vegetable growers to find out more about the practice.
When a producer told Brook he was looking to create a mockumentary film, it seemed to be the perfect fit.
“I love mockumentaries – The Office, This Country, People Just Do Nothing – they’re a great way to meet funny characters in a believable way.
The words just flowed.” Brook has been praised for creating real, relatable characters – particularly the strong, messy and brave Caroline, who embodies the spirit of an underdog hero.
Richard Lumsden (left), Jo Hartley (centre) and Celyn Jones (right) on set during Swede Caroline
Brook was also brought on board as co-director to organise the star-studded cast – which includes Celyn Jones, Aisling Bea, Fay Ripley, Ray Fearon and Steve Brody.
Rather than daunting the debut directors, the vast experience of the cast provided an added dimension to editing and production, and the collaborative process was one that Brook particularly enjoyed.
“We’d play what was on the page, then Richard Lumsden might come up with an idea and try a different line.
Often those bits would make it in – it’s great fun.
Being the director meant I got to take my script through the next stage of editing and changes during filming, which as a writer you don’t always get to do.”
Brook also recalls discussing Caroline’s backstory with Jo Hartley, and discovering that both character and actor used to work as an air hostess.
Jo said a sentence in Japanese which Brook found funny – and it was added to the script.
“With actors like the ones we had, there were loads of moments on set where you can’t stop laughing.
“But it’s often the smaller moments of genius which you only spot afterwards.
Those are my favourites.”
Swede Caroline is available to watch in UK cinemas from 19 April 2024.
Visit the Swede Caroline website .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news-alumni/news/article/5541/paris-bound-mileage-mutts-help-leeds-marathoner-achieve-olympic-dream:
After 13 years of training in Leeds and racing for the city, Phil Sesemann qualified for the Paris Olympics in 2024 and became the third fastest British marathon runner ever.
As a student, Phil Sesemann (Medicine 2017) would run from Hyde Park, up Otley Road to Headingley and back via Queenswood Drive.
It was a “terrible route” which had him dodging wheelie bins, traffic and Otley Run enthusiasts.
But it was also an escape from study, and the rigours of a medicine degree.
Things are a little different 13 years on.
He’s given up his medical license to run full time.
He’s found a more scenic route – still in Leeds – and pounds the towpath of the Leeds-Liverpool Canal.
He’s also completed the Seville marathon in 2:08:04, writing himself into the record books and qualifying to race at the Paris Olympics in 2024.
“It’s way more than I ever hoped to achieve,” Phil says.
“All I’ve ever wanted is to see how fast I can be.”
The answer, it seems, is very quick.
I came down the finishing straight and the clock had frozen, so I had no idea whether I'd done it.
As we speak, Phil’s training partners are thundering about in the background.
His dogs, Haile and Kipchoge, are affectionately known as the ‘Mileage Mutts' to Phil’s 31,000 social media followers, and are named after two of the great long-distance runners.
They accompany Phil on many of his training runs – which is another reason he sticks to the predictable, sheep-free canal path.
“When I retire from running I’ll still be jogging up and down the canal with them,” he laughs.
“And I’ll probably still be trying to come top of my age category at the London Marathon each year.”
For the London-born Phil, that's the race that first catapulted him into the public eye in 2021 – his first ever marathon – when he came home as the first British runner in seventh place overall.
“That was my 15 minutes of fame,” Phil remembers.
“It was my first taste of treating it as a profession.” An unknown athlete to most outside of the running world, the result came as a surprise – though not to those who’ve followed his progress.
Phil has been running since primary school.
His brother is a haemophiliac, so Phil was directed towards non-weight bearing exercise from a young age, and became an accomplished swimmer.
It gave him a strong aerobic base for the transition to running, and success followed as a teenager – including a fourth place at the National Cross Country Championships in 2008.
“But I was inconsistent,” Phil said.
“I didn’t have the endurance for longer races – it took a long time to build up to marathons.”
As a student at Leeds, he tried his hand at triathlon, inspired by the London 2012 performances of fellow Leeds graduates Alistair (Sports Science and Physiology 2009, Hon LLD 2013) and Jonny Brownlee (History 2012, Hon LLD 2013) , but found the training difficult to balance with his degree.
Switching his focus to running, he represented England, and achieved a second place at the British University Championships (BUCS) 3000m race in his final year.
“The medical school was always supportive of my sport,” he said.
“But despite some good results, my performances were inconsistent.
I was pretty dire at BUCS Cross Country Championships, for example.” This year, he was asked back to the championships in Temple Newsam Park, Leeds to present the medals.
The announcer took great pleasure in introducing Phil as “the elite marathon runner with a best BUCS cross country result of 41st place”.
That inconsistency may have been a result of injuries – which set Phil back a number of years – and the intensity of his medical degree.
After graduating, Phil worked part time as a doctor to allow more time for running.
“I was very different to my colleagues in that I didn’t have much career aspiration in medicine,” he says.
“They were very focussed, but I wouldn’t go home and think about medicine.
I’d go home and think about running.”
His love for the sport became a secret weapon.
Combined with an apparent robustness to high volumes of training, which allows him to train and race consistently over marathon distance, Phil simply enjoys what he does.
“It’s cliché, but I love it.
Even with bad results I’m able to get out and keep training and turning up motivated.
That means I can put together years of hundred mile weeks.”
Pictured: Phil with his two dogs, Haile and Kipchoge
His dramatic marathon debut came after a disappointing year competing for Great Britain on the track, and persuaded Phil to switch his attention to the longer format permanently.
He set another personal best at London in 2022, and in the 2023 edition, Phil famously out-kicked Mo Farah in a sprint finish for the line.
He decided to give up his medical license in order to become a full-time runner – a move that Phil found “freeing”, allowing him to focus on running faster, and nothing else.
Phil came within seconds of the Olympic qualifying time at Valencia Marathon in 2023, and earmarked Seville 2024 as his key opportunity.
He was on track to romp home under the target time until the last 3km, when his legs began to tire.
“It was hell, I was getting slower, and I convinced myself I wasn’t going to make it.
I came down the finishing straight and the clock had frozen, so I had no idea whether I'd done it.”
The time to beat was 2:08:10.
He crossed in 2:08:04 – which was “everything” to Phil.
Paris now looms, a race in which Phil can “go in swinging” knowing he’ll be an Olympian – which is far more than he ever thought he could achieve.
He still remembers his first race win.
He was eight years old, taking part in a local Bromley borough cross country run.
“It was a special feeling when I won.
That was my Olympics, and it was amazing.”
It started a lifelong passion for the sport – only now, he’s heading for the real thing.
For further details, email Ed Newbould, Digital Communications Officer, University of Leeds at e.w.newbould@leeds.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news/article/5520/off-the-deep-end-atlantic-rowing-record-smashed-by-leeds-alum:
When Hatty Carder was asked to organise a rowing team to race across the Atlantic, she never imagined stepping into the boat herself – let alone setting a new world record.
Marlin are notoriously bad news in the World’s Toughest Row, a 3,000 mile race from La Gomera, Spain to Nelson’s Dockyard, Antigua.
The spear-like snout of the giant fish can pierce the bottom of the carbon fibre boat’s hull to reach the deck.
“One of them stalked our boat for a while,” said Hatty (English 2017).
“Thankfully a wave seemed to disturb it.
But another boat in the race wasn’t so lucky, and the marlin pierced a hole in their boat.”
For an individual who admits to being “a nervous person”, and who first tried their hand at the sport just two years before, a two-month crossing of the Atlantic in an eight-meter rowing boat seems impossible.
The race has had fewer finishers than there have been successful summits of Mount Everest.
Yet Hatty and her crewmates Katherine Antrobus and Bobbie Mellor completed the challenge in 40 days, 10 hours and 51 minutes, setting a new world record time for fastest female trio.
They fundraised over £87,000 for WWF and UNHCR’s Climate Crisis Fund, with all donations being matched by the Vodafone Foundation – Hatty’s employer, who initially tasked her with organising a crew for the annual race to raise money and inspire colleagues.
“I love the outdoors, but I’ve never been good at sport,” she says.
“My role was to manage the process and interview possible crew members.” Hatty’s strengths lay in fundraising.
At Leeds, she was Community Secretary for the hockey club, and raised thousands of pounds in the role.
She jokes that on the field, however, she was dropped from the sixth squad to play in the seventh.
But when a crew member dropped out from the rowing trio – who were named Wavebreakers – Hatty was persuaded to give it a try.
She passed the physical tests to become part of the crew and joined them for a gruelling training regime.
A year of gym work was backed up by weekends out to sea to learn the navigation systems, first aid and other survival skills.
Image credit: World's Toughest Row
Nothing could prepare them for the race itself, as they set out from the start line and onto rough seas.
“It’s amazing how quickly we lost sight of competitors,” Hatty said.
“Those first 10 days we were met by some huge weather systems.”
Rotating in shifts of three hours rowing, three hours rest, the team contended with 35 knot winds, mountainous waves, baking sunshine and lashing rain.
After a night where they had been forced to deploy the para-anchor, a parachute system which ensures stability in rough weather, they were feeling particularly low – when a single wave capsized the boat.
“I’ve never seen a wave like it,” Hatty said.
“Suddenly we were in the sea.
The boat self-righted, but my oar had snapped, and Katherine – who had been asleep in the cabin – suffered a huge black eye.”
Hatty describes her own anxiety as her biggest challenge.
“Fear of the waves and capsizing again was a constant battle.
I can’t describe the size of some of those waves, and at night you often couldn’t see them coming.
By the end my nerves had nothing left.”
Those fears combined with sleep deprivation, constant bruising from the oars, and salt crystals on the skin which could cause painful sores.
“I rang the race doctor and explained our ailments.
They told me ‘this is not a comfortable sport’.
So we began to accept those aches and pains as a part of life.
After the first week or so, the body begins to adapt, and we began to move through the field.”
The crew found a rhythm, and leapt from 21st to 10th place, a surge which Hatty puts down to teamwork.
Every position gained motivated the crew and boosted their morale, and they managed to maintain their form all the way to Antigua.
“We had done personality testing and spoken a lot about how we would work as a team.
It made us really strong.
It’s a very intense space to be enclosed in but we resolved conflicts and kept each other going.”
Dolphins, whales and flocks of seabirds were regular visitors during the row.
When Hatty and the crew jumped into the water to clear barnacles off the bottom of the boat to deter hungry fish – which would have attracted marlins – the rest of the team had to be on lookout for sharks.
“Despite the fears, there were some truly special moments out there.
When the sun shone and you were out in the open, it was fantastic.
We only became aware of the record once things had started going well, but we had to keep focussed because anything could happen.
To actually achieve it really shocked us.”
Now back on solid ground, Hatty explained how she has felt claustrophobic within the confines of the office.
Her calf and glute muscles have been depleted from lack of use, so walking has become a challenge.
It is a reminder of the scale of the achievement – which is still sinking in.
“But I think it just goes to show that anyone can achieve the extraordinary.”
Explore some of the images and videos from the Wavebreakers’ journey by visiting their Instagram page .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news/article/5516/leeds-alum-and-quiltmaker-dresses-the-entrance-to-pioneering-exhibition:
A new large-scale textile artwork for Parkinson Court created by artist, quiltmaker and Leeds alum Tiegan Handley (Fine Art 2023) provides the perfect gateway to the Contested Bodies exhibition.
Located in the University’s Stanley & Audrey Burton Gallery, Contested Bodies delves into the work of over 40 contemporary artists from across the gender spectrum.
Tiegan’s piece is inspired by feminist and other protest banners – and is particularly concerned with the disconnection felt by the artist between their gender identity and their body.
Both Tiegan’s work and the exhibition reinforce the University’s commitment towards a future where no person should experience injustice or discrimination on grounds of their sexuality or gender orientation.
It comes as the University announced an ambitious new fundraising initiative to become the world leader in LGBT+ research.
Tiegan was comissioned by the University to design the banners to sit alongside the Contested Bodies exhibition, which explores gender stereotypes and self-representation.
The banners read ‘my self is not held in this flesh’ – and have subsequently been purchased by the University.
“It’s really representative of the disconnect and challenges I feel in relating my brain to my body,” Tiegan said.
“I don’t have much connection with my physical self.”
Tiegan’s work is characterised by an exploration of the boundaries and blurred lines of their own gender identity and queerness using language and quiltmaking.
Whilst studying at Leeds, their research into gender studies, the history of feminism and the long history of quilters and quiltmaking was a turning point in their practice.
“So to hang my own version of the transgender pride flag in a university building is my absolute pleasure.”
The production of the piece required Tiegan to work with their hands, mainly in sewing or machine sewing using second hand fabric, following the historic traditions of quiltmaking.
“Due to the size of my work, the making process is very physically involved which means I can explore all directions of interest within a project or piece of work.
“Making the piece into a physical body is a bit like therapy.
It allows me to explore the relationship between my gender and my body, which forced me to consider the disconnect between the self and the flesh – hence the phrase ‘my self is not held in this flesh’.”
For Tiegan, queer, trans, and gender non-conforming textile artists provide inspiration and community.
Tiegan’s work is reflective of the themes of the Contested Bodies exhibition – which challenges ideas around race, class, objectification, pleasure or desire, with an understanding that gender is socially constructed and performed.
It is a space where each artist has the freedom and power to perform gender in a way that feels right to them.
“As the complexities of the world continue to expand around the policing of gender and certain bodies, this exhibition could not have come at a more opportune time,” said exhibition co-curator Marcelle Joseph.
“I am thrilled to lend the works in this exhibition to the ever-dynamic Stanley & Audrey Burton Gallery, especially given Leeds’ rich history of feminist and queer activism.
The artists here instruct us towards new ways of understanding gender and recognising humanity outside of exclusionary heteronormative binaries.”
Artists include Jonathan Baldock, Jesse Darling, Martine Gutierrez, Sin Wai Kin, Jala Wahid, Alberta Whittle, Gray Wielebinski and Zadie Xa.
The exhibition coincides with the recent launch of a major fundraising project for Leeds to become the world leader in LGBT+ research.
With donor support, the University aims to address critical issues faced by LGBT+ people – a commitment which extends far beyond campus, to reach LGBT+ people across the UK and around the world.
As well as questions of legality, LGBT+ people face issues of discrimination and violence – from name-calling and harassment to being denied employment or healthcare.
Pride Scholarships will enable postgraduate researchers to bring together rigorous evidence-based research, advocacy and leadership to better understand and address these critical issues.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news/article/5495/the-paralympic-doctor-who-sacrificed-sport-for-the-nhs:
Kim Daybell sacrificed his Paralympic Games in order to save lives on the NHS frontline during COVID-19.
The table tennis star was inducted into the Leeds Sport Hall of Fame for his achievements.
Ranked a career-high fifth in the world with 50 international medals, a Commonwealth Games silver and two European medals in the trophy cabinet, Kim Daybell (Medicine 2018) had the world at his feet.
He was preparing to embark on his third Paralympic Games at Tokyo 2020.
Then COVID-19 struck, and instead, he put his training on hold to join his fellow doctors on the NHS frontline.
He dropped down the world rankings, and despite the circumstances, a wildcard entry to compete a year later at the delayed Paralympics was controversially rejected.
“I felt a duty to do the job I’d been trained to do,” Kim said.
“It was really tough, and unfortunately I missed out on the Games.
But I don’t regret that decision.”
While his competitors returned to training, Kim continued to work on an acute medical ward treating the most unwell patients: “People were dying who wouldn’t normally be dying.
That was hard to face each day, and I think the strain of it all put a few things in perspective about what matters.
“I also realised how important table tennis is to me.
I lost a mental and physical outlet I’ve had throughout my life.”
Sport gave me confidence to feel comfortable growing up, even though I looked different.
Kim was born with Poland syndrome, a condition which results in missing or underdeveloped chest muscles and which also affected his hand.
His parents recognised the role sport could play to help him remain healthy, and they installed a table tennis table at home when he was just seven.
By the age of eight he had joined the local club in Sheffield; by 11, such was his talent, he’d been called up to the England junior squad.
“Sport gave me confidence to feel comfortable growing up, even though I looked different.
Because I was achieving from a young age, competing internationally, and eventually playing at the Paralympics (at London 2012), everything was smoother at school and in everyday life.”
Kim competed successfully in the England junior squads against able-bodied athletes until the age of 15, before his disability began to impact results.
He was introduced to Para sport by a fellow Para athlete, and entered the world’s top ten rankings in Class 10 – the classification category for those with a minimal impairment: “I remember my first international Para tournament.
It was the first time I’d seen disabled people competing and doing amazing things.
It filled me with pride and suddenly I felt at home – I was just another person there, and I loved it.”
Kim was – and remains – a role model inside and outside of sport.
At school, he was asked to speak to and mentor younger pupils with disabilities.
As a Paralympian and an ambassador for the PIP-UK Poland Syndrome Charity, he acknowledges his responsibility to amplify voices, raise awareness and inspire.
Within the NHS, he is keen to address a lack of representation from disabled people, who make up just 1% of the workforce (whereas disabled people make up 20% of the general population), and he has joined staff disability networks across a number of hospitals.
The University inducted Kim into the Leeds Sport Hall of fame in 2023
Witnessing the impact of medicine on fellow Para athletes inspired Kim to study the subject at Leeds: “A lot of those people wouldn’t be there today if it wasn’t for doctors.
I had surgery as a kid and spent a lot of time in hospital, and I thought medicine would be the best way to give back.
“I was the best version of myself at Leeds.
Leeds Sport gave me everything I needed in terms of facilities, the medical school were so enthusiastic about my sport and they gave me weeks out to compete – but then helped me catch up.
And then there was my alumni donor Steve Ledger (Medicine 1979), whose financial support made it possible for me to achieve in elite sport and academically.” Kim also made an impression on Steve, who continued to support him throughout his career on the court.
Alongside academic studies, in the build-up to major competitions such as the Rio Paralympic Games, Kim would train for up to six hours each day.
He practiced against the strongest players he could find at Leeds, and also travelled to England’s training centre in Sheffield.
Table tennis requires short bursts of energy from a constant squat position, and as Kim describes, it is “a really tough sport” which takes years of consistent preparation to reach elite level.
That break in consistency due to COVID-19 impacted Kim’s playing levels.
Although a wildcard entry to the delayed Tokyo Games was still possible, his application was rejected.
“It was the hardest time in my sporting career.
I’d been very high profile with my work on the frontline through the pandemic so I thought I might be awarded a spot for exceptional circumstances, but it wasn’t to be.
I’ve come to terms with it now, and I can’t complain about the career I had.”
Unable to commit to the training required to return to the top of the sport, Kim decided to focus full time on his medical career, and he retired from table tennis in 2022.
In recognition of his extraordinary achievements, the University inducted Kim into the Leeds Sport Hall of fame in 2023, a year in which – despite only playing recreationally since retirement – he was crowned National Champion in his category.
It brings to mind the adage ‘class is permanent’, and we wonder whether there might be any desire to return to the top level?
“I would only make a return if I could make a good go of it,” Kim said.
“You have to be realistic.
But I would never write it off.”
For further details, email Ed Newbould, Digital Communications Officer, University of Leeds at e.w.newbould@leeds.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news/article/5465/supporting-students-through-grief:
Anna May experienced loss from an early age.
She used her experiences and knowledge to set up the Student Grief Network, which aims to soften the impact of bereavement in universities across the UK.
Anna May (English Literature and Sociology 2020) was just 10 when her brother died.
It was her first experience of loss, and one that would change everything.
“A loss like that can really shatter someone’s world and lead to a whole host of challenges,” Anna said.
“It often feels easier to shut it all out.
I didn’t want to be the girl whose brother had died, I just wanted to be normal.”
Anna pushed it away, and it wasn’t until she moved to university that the grief resurfaced.
She explored ways to ease the pain, joining discussion groups and going to counselling.
She even planned a theatre project about grief.
And then her dad died.
“When my brother died, I couldn’t find a silver lining,” Anna said.
“It fractured my family and it led to a lot of issues.
But when my dad died in my final year at Leeds, while still incredibly painful, I found another side to grief that allowed me to connect to myself and the people around me.
I was able to move forward – not move on, because it doesn’t go away, but forward.”
Anna’s experiences motivated her to form the nationwide Student Grief Network (SGN), a social enterprise which creates an ecosystem of support across the UK universities – and provides advice for those suffering with loss, and those supporting them.
It’s important that we’re not giving a rule book or black and white understanding of grief.
It’s different for each person.
“University is a particularly challenging place to experience grief,” Anna said.
“Especially when you first arrive – usually at the age of 18.” Students must navigate a new city without having formed meaningful relationships.
They are a long way from old support networks and familiarity.
“And then you’re hit with a loss, and basic life tasks become hard – your brain can stop functioning properly in grief, you can’t concentrate and you forget things.
You’re expected to be having the best time of your life and that’s not compatible with your feelings, which alienates you even more.”
Anna was not alone when she experienced grief at university.
Research has shown that around 4% of people lose a parent by the age of sixteen and nearly one third of students experience a loss of some kind during their studies.
Anna joined the Bereaved and Young Student Network in Leeds, trialling discussion groups and creative workshops.
“There was nothing structured in place initially – we would go bowling or out for dinner, but we weren’t talking about things.”
SGN started to take shape, and as more volunteers came on board, the support offered expanded.
It now includes online information, staff training, creative projects, groups and events.
SGN works nationwide, bringing students together to soften the impact of bereavement, while equipping institutions to create a culture of care.
The variety of support offered by the network reflects the varying nature of grief.
“It is a very different experience for each person,” Anna said.
“It changes based on how the person might have died, their relationship with you, your personality and cultural background, and the support network you have in place.
Even within one person, feelings vary from day to day – or maybe you’ll regress for a couple of weeks after a few months of feeling better.
“It’s important that we’re not giving a rule book or black and white understanding of grief.”
Instead, SGN materials draw from Anna’s experiences, volunteer input, group workshops and research.
One of the first steps can be to acknowledge the pain, which is something Anna pushed aside after her brother’s death.
“The grief has to be felt to move through it,” Anna said.
“So you have to look at the painful bits.
But you can do that in a less painful way, by speaking to people through SGN or turning to those around you.
“Sharing is hard, but when you share a difficult part of yourself, you’re giving others permission to do the same.
I reframe that as creating an ecosystem of care.
It’s a strength to ask for support.”
Challenges arise at certain times of year – such as anniversaries or at Christmas.
While in Leeds, Anna set up a stall in the Union during the festive season, because going home or celebrating is often challenging when grieving.
“It’s important to keep doing the light-hearted stuff.
It’s OK to step away and not think about grief for a day, to watch rubbish TV and let off steam.
That is a part of reconnecting with the things you love and your community.”
Anna lost her dad whilst studying at Leeds, and learnt first hand about the challenges of experiencing grief at University
For those trying to support someone going through grief at university, it’s often a new situation, too.
It’s something SGN helps with as part of their offering.
Anna suggests creating space for others to talk: “People often say to those grieving that ‘you don’t have to talk about it if you don’t want to’, but that’s not helpful because it shuts down the conversation.
In reality, you’re not bringing it up, because it’s a constant anyway.
So instead, ask open questions without pressure, such as ‘how have you been feeling recently?’.”
Helping with practical jobs, such as cooking and cleaning, can be useful, with simple tasks becoming challenging for those struggling.
Showing compassion is also important, because as Anna says, “people do rubbish things when they’re going through a hard time”.
“But remember, they’re a normal person, so don’t tiptoe around them.
You can still organise things and do fun things – if they say ‘no’ multiple times, it doesn’t mean they don’t want to be asked again.”
Creating an open environment to talk about grief is a cultural shift for many in the UK.
Yet everyone will experience loss at some point in life – often repeatedly.
Earlier this year, Anna’s uncle died from leukaemia.
“He played a significant role in my life, and it’s been really hard.
But as I continue to grow and experience loss, I build it into the work I’m doing, and it’s deepened my understanding.
“It never gets easier, but I’m in a far better place to work through it and grow through grief.
I know that things get better.”
To find out more and to support the work of SGN, visit the Student Grief Network website .
SGN’s latest project – The Student Grief Zine – is a new creative platform exploring themes within grief in bitesize chapters.
It also features artwork and quotes from the SGN community.
Read The Student Grief Zine online, download a free PDF, or buy a copy.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news-alumni/news/article/5454/helping-the-aviation-sector-to-reach-net-zero:
From Eurostar to the Heathrow Express, Paul Le Blond has been involved with some of the UK’s most important transport projects in recent times.
He’s now helping the aviation sector to reach net zero.
Is net zero possible in the aviation industry?
“Yes,” says Paul (MSc Transportation Engineering 1972).
“There is a range of solutions that can help us get there.”
With over 40 years’ experience in the field, Paul works in a voluntary capacity as the Aviation Policy Group Chair in the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport.
The group advises the government on current aviation matters – such as fighting the climate crisis.
“We suggest how the government should be moving to reach net zero.
Increasingly, that’s looking like sustainable aviation fuel (SAF).” SAF has the same chemical composition as fossil-based fuels, so it can be used in existing systems – including plane engines, tanks, and pipelines – with minor modifications.
Crucially, it is made from sustainable feedstocks.
“But it’s expensive, and that’s where other solutions can help, too.”
One of which, we suggest, would be to fly less.
But Paul’s approach, developed at Leeds, is to engineer improvements to current systems.
“There are diverse opinions.
Some groups will say we need to do less of everything.
But we can also adapt and improve the systems.
Either way, the aviation industry understands the need to get to net zero.”
During Paul’s studies, noise pollution was the primary environmental issue in aviation.
“And running out of oil was also a concern back then, ironically,” he says.
“I gained a fantastic grounding at Leeds.
We learnt how to make things, how to fix things, how much it cost and its value.
There were also some brilliant gigs at the Union in the 1970s – and I met my wife at Leeds.”
Paul worked at British Airports Authority (BAA) and BAA plc for 30 years across a variety of roles in airport planning and terminal management at Heathrow, before taking up senior roles as Strategy Director on the Heathrow Express rail project, and then for Eurostar.
During his time as Chair, the Aviation Policy Group contributed to COP26 (the 2021 United Nations Climate Change Conference), presenting a paper on solutions in the industry, such as SAF.
“Another option is zero emission aircraft, which are electric, fuel cell or hydrogen powered,” says Paul.
“That’s going to be longer term, and it’s a little more limited with battery power to weight ratio issues.
But it does work in smaller aircraft and for shorter-range flights.”
Other developments include an increase in aircraft efficiency, which leads to a reduction in fuel usage and flight time, and the use of greener energy within and on access routes to airports.
These improvements have made a difference, according to Paul: since peak emissions in 2019, notwithstanding a significant reduction during Covid-19, emissions have fallen.
That, in part, is due to the Boeing 747 being “all but retired and replaced” by more efficient aircraft.
Regardless, aviation remains the most carbon-intensive method of travel worldwide.
The expansion of London, Gatwick and Luton airports conflicts with lower emission targets, but Paul believes growth can be achieved within the realms of net zero.
“We’re suggesting a cap on emissions – and it doesn’t matter how you achieve it.
If you don’t achieve it, you don’t continue to grow.
That provides a huge incentive.
“Airports might achieve those reductions through fewer flights, or more efficient flights.
You might raise the cost of flights to offset the carbon – a cost which is already included in many airfares under the worldwide Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation.”
The international nature of air travel adds a level of complexity, as changes and agreements would need to be implemented across the world.
As Paul notes: “There’s no point having battery power if you couldn’t then charge it at the other end.”
COP conferences can therefore play an effective role in this collaboration.
Paul points to COP26 aviation agreements and the international coalitions set up, as well as a session at COP28 on sustainable aviation which will involve a cross industry group of academics, suppliers, airports, and fuel manufacturers setting a road map to net zero.
“The key is that the pieces of paper everyone agrees upon are converted into action.”
Find out more about Leeds alumni making a difference in climate action by visiting Leeds alumni and COP28 .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news-alumni/news/article/5441/the-power-of-horror:
Award-winning horror writer Tananarive Due knows how to scare.
She explains what attracts us to the genre, how she creates horror, and how her time at Leeds played a key role in her success.
Tananarive Due (MA English Literature 1988) watched horror films from when she was young.
“As children, we learn that it’s fun to be scared,” Tananarive said.
“It’s a rollercoaster thrill ride.
My mother let me watch because she was a lover of Dracula, Frankenstein and The Wolfman.”
Her mother, Patricia Stephens Due, was also a well-known civil rights activist.
Her love of the supernatural contrasted with the woman Tananarive later read about in textbooks.
“I realised how our relationship with horror changes.
I’d heard my parents’ stories – my mother was tear gassed by the police to the point she had to wear dark glasses.
As we get older, I believe horror stories become a way to address those traumas.
“It’s validating to see something horrific on a screen mirroring a feeling you couldn’t put into words.”
Tananarive’s early exposure to the genre helped her to thrive.
She has been a leading voice in Black speculative fiction for more than 20 years.
She has won an American Book Award, a National Association for the Advancement of Coloured People Image Award, a British Fantasy Award, and her writing has been included in best-of-the-year anthologies.
But when she arrived in Leeds, she wasn’t writing horror at all.
“I was always writing, but I was trying to mimic what novels and short stories felt like.
That meant a white male protagonist having an emotional crisis and an epiphany.
You would never know that there was a horror writer in me.”
Aside from overcoming the challenge of “getting accustomed to the Yorkshire accent” and widening her world view by making friends from all over the globe, Tananarive’s Leeds studies helped set her literary direction.
Professor David Richards’ course on Nigerian literature introduced her to African authors, including the likes of Wole Soyinka (English 1957, Hon DLitt 1973) and Chinua Achebe.
“It was earth shaking for me.
I wrote my Masters thesis on conditions in the African Civil War, and it’s no coincidence that in my second novel, A Soul To Keep, I have an African protagonist.
“When you’re reading great literature, as I was at Leeds, it has a flowering effect.
Seeds were planted that sprouted not long after.”
“Typically, the ideas for my horror stories come from a real-life event or something that scared me.”
Tananarive began to write from her own experiences, and seven years after graduating from Leeds while she worked as a journalist and columnist for the Miami Herald, her first novel was published.
The idea for The Between came after Hurricane Andrew devastated Tananarive’s home in south Florida, and she wondered, “what if you didn’t die when you were supposed to die?”.
“Typically, the ideas for my horror stories come from a real-life event or something that scared me.” In another story, Rumpus Room, Tanararive was inspired by a fungus in the shower.
When Tananarive saw it without her glasses on, she believed it was a washcloth and touched it with her foot.
“It sent a jitter up my leg,” she said.
“And that minor scare rolled around in my head.
“The next key ingredient is to find a character, and in horror a lot of those characters’ stories start with grief or transgression, or both.” Finessing the character, Tananarive notes, is something many authors learnt from Stephen King, who is described as the ‘King of Horror’.
“Pet Sematary by Stephen King scared me the most,” she said.
“I read that when I was young.”
For her new book, The Reformatory, Tananarive draws on her own family history.
After discovering her mother’s uncle died at the infamous Dozier School for boys, Tananarive delved into the past.
She visited the abandoned school – overgrown with vines and full of dusty bunks – listened to stories of survivors, and created a ghost story which rewrites her great-uncle’s ending.
It also highlights the injustice of the criminal justice system which would send a child to prison for a minor matter – because of the colour of their skin.
Tananarive is considered an expert in Black Horror, and teaches Black Horror and Afrofuturism at UCLA.
It’s a label which can mean many things.
“Black Horror can be social messaging and a way to show what white supremacy feels like, or it can be that the protagonist just happens to be black – which gives a different prism to look at the things that scare us.
It’s as diverse as all horror, except the creators are black and bring their own experiences.”
Tananarive visited the infamous Dozier School for boys as research for her new novel, The Reformatory
As someone who has made a career from understanding and teaching about horror – as well as scaring readers – does Tananarive still enjoy the genre herself?
“My favourite horror movies are low budget, because it’s all about ideas and performance and technique.
Something skittering across the table is scary for me, I don’t need a flying monster.
“As you get older and start to absorb more of the horrors in the world, trauma accumulates.
I think people who have suffered loss or devastating events either stay far away from horror or they’re drawn to it.
“As my mother found, it can be soothing to watch a horror film, or read a book – yes it’s horrible to see these things in real life, but at least it wasn’t as frightening as that.”
The Reformatory, released on 31 October 2023, can be purchased online.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news-alumni/news/article/5417/an-ice-cream-revolution-starting-in-leeds:
Founder and director of Northern Bloc Dirk Mischendahl is doing ice cream differently.
The serial entrepreneur returned to Leeds to support enterprising students starting their own business journeys.
“Quite simply, I like ice cream,” says Dirk (Psychology 1995).
“That’s why I started this.
It was the perfect place to do it, because Leeds has great ice cream heritage, from ice blocks that used to get shipped along the canals to the city, to flavoured ices, to Italian families who started making it here using dairy.”
To Dirk, and the evolution of “ice cream done differently”.
They started out by making ice cream through the night and selling it from a van during the day.
Now, Dirk and co-founder Josh Lee supply hundreds of theatres, arts venues and tourist attractions across the UK.
Northern Bloc can be found in the Co-op, Ocado, Morrisons, Waitrose, and on all Virgin Atlantic outbound flights.
Their plant-based and vegan range are changing perceptions – and setting the standard for non-dairy products.
“We pride ourselves on using responsibly-sourced natural ingredients to create different flavour combinations,” says Dirk.
“We innovate, and we make great quality products – because who doesn’t like good ice cream?”
Listen to the full Leeds Voices podcast episode with Dirk - Episode 14: Setting the standard for vegan ice cream with Dirk Mischendahl
The difference between successful and unsuccessful entrepreneurs is the ability to dust yourself down and try again when things go wrong.
The name Northern Bloc is a nod to the industrial heritage of the city.
They chose to locate the business to Castleton Mill, a restored Grade II Listed flax mill built in 1836.
“Leeds has been a furnace of innovation throughout history,” Dirk says.
“The industrial revolution began up north with a drive to innovate.” The University itself started life as the Yorkshire College of Science, and was funded by entrepreneurial industrialists.
It is fitting that Dirk began his first business from its doors – because he was “never going to work for somebody else”.
After co-ordinating the University graduation ball, Dirk established a marketing and events business which went on to turn over £20 million, before he sold his stake in 2014.
“I’m grateful to the University and the people who gave me a leg up.
I wouldn’t be where I am today without the support, and it’s why I try to help those at the start of their journey.”
Dirk is one of many local business owners to attend the launch of HELIX, the new home of student enterprise at the University, and a space of immersive technologies for collaboration on creative, innovative, and entrepreneurial projects.
“When I was at Leeds, I wasn’t aware of a formal start-up service.
It’s fantastic that support is here now to help entrepreneurs.
“My advice is to always trust your gut.
Usually people with ideas have thought about them a lot, but they lack the confidence that it could work.
You don’t need someone telling you how to do it, you need someone to bounce ideas off.
“The difference between successful and unsuccessful entrepreneurs is the ability to dust yourself down and try again when things go wrong.
You keep going.”
It’s an approach Dirk has needed at Northern Bloc.
When starting out in 2014, they discovered the challenges of making ice cream using natural, quality, and ethically-sourced products which had a good shelf life.
Hiring Manolo Imperatori, who brought a wealth of science and knowledge from his long Italian heritage of ice cream makers, helped them to get it right.
“In 2014 ice cream was seen as a secondary dessert, and something to complement the main attraction.
But we’re making it centre plate.
“It involves a lot of experimentation and innovation with flavours and combinations.
You’ve got to try new things.”
Innovation is ongoing, with creations including Little Bloc for kids, home biodegradable pots, and the recent launch of their allergen-free, plant-based soft serve ice cream.
Flavours are continually evolving, with all staff getting involved in the creation.
Dirk has some favourites from the product line – namely grapefruit and bergamot, parkin, and lemon sorbet.
“Although,” he adds, “a simple vanilla is hard to beat.” It’s also one of the hardest and most expensive to get right, with vanilla pods costing “more than silver”.
Northern Bloc’s vision is simple: to make ice cream products that taste great – vegan or dairy.
It is the former in which Dirk believes they have truly set the benchmark, with vegan products making up over 50% of turnover.
The ice cream is made from natural vegetable fibres using pioneering molecular technology developed specifically by the team.
“We believe everyone deserves good ice cream, which is why we have the vegan and plant-based products.
People judge them on whether it tastes like dairy product, but that’s not how you should compare because it’s not dairy, it’s a different product.
“Instead, you need to judge on whether it tastes nice.
Our products do, and that’s why we’re ahead of the rest.”
Watch our ‘What is SPARK’ video to discover more about the wide-ranging impact of SPARK, the University’s business start-up service.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news-alumni/news/article/5410/leeds-alum-becomes-paramedic-at-64:
To Peter Watters (Pharmacology 1980), age is just a number.
After a varied career in teaching and IT, he retrained to work as a paramedic on the NHS frontline, aged 64.
“You’re 64, why did you do this?
That’s what people keep asking me,” Peter said.
“Because I could.
That’s the answer.”
Peter has found his calling.
The stresses of the NHS frontline might not appeal to many people nearing their state pension, but for Peter, there is nowhere else he would rather be.
“I wish I’d done it 30 years ago.
I come home at the end of every day knowing I’ve made someone’s life better – and longer, in some instances.”
In fact, his life experience has helped him to thrive in the new role, bringing with it both knowledge and experience in the face of stressful situations.
“It goes all the way back to my time at Leeds,” he said.
“That’s what kick-started my passion for evidence-based learning which I’m using today.
“If anyone is considering a career change, if you’re healthy enough and you still have the thirst for knowledge, there’s nothing that should stop you.”
It’s not just a profession for younger fitter people.
I work with a huge number of colleagues covering a range of ages, sizes, genders.
Although Peter’s steps to become a paramedic came later in his career, his passion for healthcare and medicine began whilst studying pharmacology at Leeds.
“There were fantastic facilities and the lecturers were experts in their fields,” Peter recalled.
“We were in the old medical school at first, and then we moved into the new one – the Worsley building, which is probably considered old now.”
Peter enjoyed Leeds for its academic prestige, combined with a memorable music scene.
He remembered seeing the likes of Camel and Lindisfarne in the Refectory.
After graduating, he was unsure whether to commit to a career in pharmacology, so he opted for a PGCE.
He became a teacher, before switching to a role in IT.
“My career has come down to opportunity,” he said.
“You put the pieces in place and the opportunities often present themselves.
I enjoyed teaching, but when the chance came to do something new again, I took it.”
It is an approach that has taken him around the world.
A teaching role in North Carolina, USA, followed, before he worked as the director of IT at a school in Surrey.
He later moved to the Lake District and began a holiday cottage business.
“But with that one, I was at home all day cleaning,” he said.
“I started to go stir crazy, I was used to socialising.
“I joined St John’s Ambulance because my daughters were a part of it, and I was dropping them off and picking them up anyway.
It brought back all the memories of pharmacology at Leeds.
“I became emergency transport on events, which is when I saw an advert for emergency medical technicians.
“I went for it.”
After seven years in the role, an apprenticeship opportunity led to him study as a paramedic at Carlisle University.
Once qualified, Peter took on greater responsibilities for patient management – far beyond what people typically expect.
“It’s a broad remit – people often see the paramedic role as putting a patient in an ambulance and moving on, but it's changing.
You’ve got to set patients on the right care pathway and make patient management decisions, and it’s a qualification that can see you working with the air ambulance, in care homes, in GP surgeries or in A&E.
“We’re expected to keep up to speed with literature around techniques, drugs, and patient management and revise protocols accordingly.
We become researchers in our own right.
That builds upon a lot of what I did at Leeds into treatments and the way they work.”
Where his Leeds studies might help prepare him for knowledge-based aspects of the role, the emotional side draws on a different skillset – particularly in a trauma scenario.
“It’s a challenge, but you’ve got to detach yourself from what you’re seeing and the emotions of people on the scene.
You step back and follow your protocols to help those patients.
It might hit you afterwards, but at the time you can't get distracted.
We do have a good structure in place to deal with psychological issues afterwards.”
And it is in those times of stress that Peter’s life experiences can play a part.
“I suppose people look at you differently as an older person,” Peter said.
“They see you as being more knowledgeable, a bit more of a calming influence, perhaps.
“At the end of the day, we each bring our own skills.
I work with a huge number of colleagues covering a range of ages, sizes, genders.”
And despite his passion for the work, does Peter have plans to slow down any time soon?
“I will do it as long as I can,” he said.
“I couldn’t retire and take to my garden – I’m useless at growing things anyway.”

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news-alumni/news/article/5385/transforming-cystic-fibrosis-care:
Director of Medical Affairs at the Cystic Fibrosis Trust Dr Keith Brownlee has played his part in transforming treatment of the condition – while raising two of Leeds’ most successful sporting alumni.
When Dr Keith Brownlee (Medicine 1984) first graduated from Leeds, the life expectancy for cystic fibrosis (CF) patients was in the teens.
Nowadays, it is well over 40.
“We used to have wards of children with horrendous coughs producing pots full of thick green sputum every day,” Keith said.
“I was inspired by the families and the children, and how they dealt with the condition.
We would be in it together with one eye on the future, hoping for some breakthrough in treatment.”
That breakthrough came thanks to the likes of the CF Trust, Leeds researchers and the city’s hospitals, which have been involved in the development of a new class of drugs called modulators.
Listen to the full podcast episode on the Leeds Voices podcast.
Podcast transcript: Leeds Voices - Episode 11 Cystic Fibrosis Trust's Dr Keith Brownlee
CF is a genetic condition present from birth, with 1 in 25 people carrying the gene that causes it.
One of these genes is needed from each parent to develop the condition.
“There are around 11,000 people in the UK with CF,” Keith said.
“They are missing an ion channel on their cells which allows salt and water in and out.” The resulting sticky secretions cause problems in the lungs, which makes patients vulnerable to infection and lung scarring over years.
They also suffer with problems with the pancreas, which cause issues when absorbing fats.
On graduating from Leeds, Keith moved into paediatrics.
His rotation took him to the Beckett Wing at St James’s hospital in Leeds, where he became involved in CF care – at a time when most CF patients died as children.
“I worked with Jim Littlewood, who travelled the world and brought the best CF care back to Leeds.
I inherited his mantle and provided care for 200-250 kids in Leeds and the north of England.
“I was fascinated by the condition, and so impressed by how the families and children dealt with it.
The chance to be involved really appealed to me – we were in it together to make life as good as possible for the child.”
Traditionally, medical teams sought to resolve the consequences of the mucus using treatments such as antibiotics.
A collaborative effort between those with CF, charities, and pharmaceutical research helped to advance treatments, leading to the discovery of new modulator drugs, which interact with the ion channel.
“Leeds has been a powerhouse of CF care over the years.
They’ve led some world-leading research to make these breakthroughs.”
The modulators reconfigure the protein so that the channel works more effectively.
“They have been truly transformational,” said Keith.
“When I first started it was unusual for adults to have CF.
Now 60 per cent of CF patients are over 18.
It’s gone from being a child to adult condition in my lifetime.
“A drug called Kaftrio works on the commonest mutation of CF.
It improves lung function, reduces the rate of decline, reduces flare ups of infection, reduces hospital admission and reduces the need for intravenous antibiotics.
It’s a real success story.”
Ever since he enrolled at Leeds to study medicine, the city has been focal to Keith’s family life.
He met his wife whilst studying at the University, and their first two children followed in their footsteps.
They became two of the University’s most successful sporting alumni; Alistair (Sports Science and Physiology 2009, Hon LLD 2013) is the most successful triathlete in Olympic history with two gold medals, whilst Jonny (History 2012, Hon LLD 2013) is the most decorated, with three Olympic medals to his name.
“Over the years we travelled to see them a lot,” Keith said.
“We’ve watched them in Beijing, Rio, Australia – it’s been a fascinating journey.
It went from a hobby to a profession almost overnight.
“There have been challenges, too, because they’ve had heat exhaustion and we’ve seen them collapse.
When you’re sitting at home watching on the TV and see that, it’s quite worrying.”
Although a keen runner himself, Keith remained dedicated to his medical career.
He now works in an advisory role for the CF Trust, bridging the gap between the clinical community and the Trust.
“The Trust has funded some fantastic research as well as accelerator programmes which ensure people with CF get access to treatments as soon as possible.” They provide information for people with CF and advice around issues like schooling, work and accessing government support – as well as providing direct financial assistance.
For clinical teams, they produce guidelines and standards of care for people with CF.
“But there is still work to be done,” Keith added.
“There are a class of mutations for which the breakthrough drugs don’t work.
Added to that, people with CF are going to live a lot longer, which presents new challenges to patients.
“People with CF get infected with bugs which can be passed to other individuals with CF, so they are advised to avoid coming into contact with each other.
That makes the condition extremely isolating.
“CF is also considered an invisible disease.
So a lot of people with it don’t tell their colleagues.
They want to be treated as everybody else.”
Discover more about the CF Trust.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news-alumni/news/article/5359/naga-munchetty-asking-the-right-questions:
For Naga Munchetty, Leeds Student kickstarted a career to the top of her profession.
After years of pain, she is using her platform to raise awareness of adenomyosis, a little-known womb condition.
Naga Munchetty (English Literature and Language 1997) is one of the most recognisable faces in the UK.
Since 2014 she's been a regular presenter on BBC Breakfast, she's a presenter on 5 Live, but did you know that the spark to embarking on her career as a journalist involved a trumpet and the Leeds Student?
After being a musician in her teens, she had to give her trumpet back to the Inner London Education Authority before embarking on her English course at Leeds.
With the loss of her first passion, music, she needed to "find a tribe" at university.
As a strong writer, she thought she'd try her hand at writing for the Leeds Student, and soon her insatiable curiosity was fed by her extracurricular journalistic sleuthing.
“My job is to hold those in power to account,” Naga says.
“That started at the Leeds Student.
I started thinking about how I could write a story that mattered to students – how do we make them care?
“A viewer recently gave me the best compliment of ‘you always ask the questions we want to ask’.
You serve your audience – you find a story, and infect others with your curiosity.
That’s what I learnt at Leeds.”
Read the podcast transcript .
When Naga graduated from Leeds, the occasion was tinged with sadness as the “best time of your life” came to a close.
“I remember throwing my hat in the air and making sure I didn’t fall over,” she says.
“It sounds shallow, but I don’t mind being shallow at that age.
There’s plenty of time for not being shallow when you’re older.
“I was very pleased for my parents, because I remember how scared they were and what they went through trying to support me as much as they could.”
For graduates following in Naga’s footsteps, she offers three pearls of wisdom: “Trust your gut, because it will serve you well; don’t do things half-heartedly – if you don’t want to do it, don’t do it; and when you’re at work, speak up.
“Be present, partake in life – because it’s short.”
And the willingness to speak up and ask questions has been a hallmark of Naga’s career – be it while questioning politicians on BBC Breakfast, or when it came to her own health.
After suffering excruciating pain from a little-known womb condition called adenomyosis, Naga set out to raise awareness of the condition, thought to affect up to one in 10 women.
“We’d already done some work on BBC Radio 5 Live around the coil, and we managed to get the guidelines changed about people being offered pain relief when it was being fitted.
“But with adenomyosis, I was putting myself out there and was very nervous.
As journalists, we want to tell the story, we don’t want to be the story.”
Naga revealed on air that she had been struggling to obtain a diagnosis and treatment after decades of painful, heavy 10-day periods that sometimes made her pass out.
“The day before we did the piece I had a wobble about whether to share.
That weekend we had had to call an ambulance because I was in too much pain.
“But the fact is, I have a platform.
It wasn’t about me.
If I’m not getting answers, as someone who pushes and questions everything my gynaecologist says – and doesn’t take ‘no’ for an answer – then what about everybody else?”
Naga aims to empower others to speak up about their health.
She has interviewed Dame Lesley Regan, the Government's first ever Women's Health Ambassador for England, about her vision for women’s health hubs.
“The problem with women’s health advice is it’s so bitty,” Naga says.
“You see a different GP each time, then you’re referred for a scan, then you’re sent somewhere else.
There’s no continuous treatment.
“Women’s health has been neglected.
We want to be heard and treated as soon as possible – and we want women to be confident that they will be believed.
“It’s not just for adenomyosis, but it’s about us being treated with respect and not just accepting the nonsense we are given.”

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news-alumni/news/article/5335/recognition-for-nursing-twins-on-75th-anniversary-of-nhs:
During their studies, nurses Dhionis and Marineo Llanaj worked on intensive care, saving the lives of Covid-19 patients.
As the NHS turns 75, a global award nomination recognises their contributions.
“It was difficult,” says Dhionis (Medical Sciences 2022).
“We were treating Covid-19 patients when the virus was an unknown entity – we didn’t know what it might do to us.”
When twin brothers Dhionis and Marineo (Medicinal Sciences 2022) emigrated to study at Leeds, they did so to further their nursing careers.
They didn’t anticipate a global pandemic, and working on the frontline alongside their studies.
“I worked night shifts to help finance my degree,” says Dhionis.
“At times it felt too much, but I was glad to be there to look after patients.” Since witnessing nurses and doctors caring for his older brother in hospital in Greece, it’s all Dhionis and his twin brother have ever wanted to do.
Now an Education Practitioner at the Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust, on the 75th anniversary of the NHS, Dhionis has been nominated as a finalist for the International alumni of the year in the PIEoneer Awards 2023, which honour achievements across the global education industry.
On its 75th anniversary, I also need to acknowledge what a wonderful place the NHS is.
“I’ve always been able to adapt,” says Dhionis.
“That’s been ingrained since I was young and our circumstances shifted.” When the twins were two years old, the family fled civil war in Albania to Greece.
It was there that a road traffic incident set Dhionis and Marineo’s career paths: “Our older brother was involved in a bicycle accident.
It left him with disabilities and we spent a lot of time in hospitals.
I watched the nurses, doctors and parents look after him.
“It inspired me to save lives and look after people.
Even as a child, I knew that was what I wanted to become.”
Dhionis shared the dream with his twin brother.
They went to university and qualified as nurses, before deciding to travel to the UK to complement their practical skills with research knowledge.
They studied an International Foundation Year with Study Group at the Leeds International Study Centre, which runs in partnership with the University of Leeds, before progressing to study a Medical Sciences at Leeds.
Whilst studying, the twins delivered critical care in Leeds hospitals for countless patients and families: “The hardest thing was that relatives of patients couldn’t see their loved ones because of Covid restrictions.
But loved ones are part of the treatment.
Being with family gives you a hand to hold.
It was hard to watch.”
Dhionis has always been able to rely on his own twin brother to support him through challenges – and even now they remain colleagues, with Marineo working at the same trust as an Oncology Research Nurse.
“We would tell each other we’ve come this far, we can’t give up now.
I must also mention Dr Michael Coleman, my supervisor at Leeds, who was fantastic in listening to me and guiding me during that time.
“On its 75th anniversary, I also need to acknowledge what a wonderful place the NHS is.
I am an international nurse, and the NHS and Leeds have been brilliant in welcoming me.
It’s an inclusive, diverse place, and the teamwork got us through the pandemic.”
Dhionis has been recognised for his contributions with his nomination at the PIEoneer Awards, following a rigorous assessment by a panel of more than 40 esteemed representatives of the higher education sector.
“I was so happy to be nominated,” Dhionis says.
“I hope my story teaches people to follow their dreams too, despite challenges.
I hope it inspires them.
“All I’ve ever wanted is to look after patients, and now I’m an Education Practitioner, I can help others do the same.
I don't see it as a job, really.
It’s my life.”
You can read more about the PIEoneer Awards, which will be held in September 2023, on the PIEoneer Awards website.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news-alumni/news/article/5326/from-leeds-to-the-top-of-the-world-brownlee-brothers-inspire-the-next-generation:
Triathlete Jonny Brownlee has completed the set – Olympic gold, silver and bronze medals.
As the 50,000th child crosses a Brownlee Foundation finish line, his legacy goes beyond the competitive arena.
“Leeds has become a focal point for triathlon in the world,” says Jonny (History 2012, Hon LLD 2013).
“That’s down to the universities, the training squads, the elite coaches, the world series event, and the facilities with the Yorkshire Dales and swimming pools.”
And, of course, the Brownlee brothers.
Born and bred in Leeds, Alistair (Sports Science and Physiology 2009, Hon LLD 2013) is the most successful triathlete in Olympic history with two gold medals.
Jonny is the most decorated, with three Olympic medals to his name – as well as a world championship, and countless European and Commonwealth medals.
Both have been awarded the MBE for their services to triathlon.
Their success draws and inspires athletes at all levels.
It led to the creation of the Brownlee Foundation, which is introducing children to sport across the UK.
“The idea was born from the legacy of the London Olympics in 2012,” Jonny explained.
“We set out to help children from all backgrounds to get active.
We run free, non-competitive triathlon events, where it’s all about removing barriers and giving children a positive experience.
We then host follow-up events afterwards if children want to keep doing it.”
The Foundation has come full circle, with the 50,000th child crossing the finish line at the same Leeds location as the first ever event 2014.
You can listen to the full interview with Jonny in our Leeds Voices podcast.
When Jonny was younger, there were no such pathways into triathlon.
He was introduced to swimming by his mum, running by his dad and eventually – fortuitously – triathlon by his uncle.
“He was one of the few people in the UK who did triathlon at the time.
We went to watch him compete, then decided to give it a go – which meant travelling around the country.
But if I told my school friends I was doing a triathlon, they probably thought I was horse riding and shooting.”
Jonny’s ensuing success on the international scene came about during his time at Leeds, where he benefitted from the University’s sporting facilities and training groups.
“I enjoyed my time at Leeds,” Jonny said.
“Mine was a very different experience to that of most students – I did exams all over the world when I was racing abroad.
I lived at home at first, then with Alistair.
But I loved it, the triathlon club was growing and when I left there were three or four squads.
I loved going out training with newcomers, showing them the cafes of Yorkshire, then going off and racing on the international stage.
“It was perfect going into 2012 as well because it gave me something to focus on that wasn’t just Olympics.”
It was the London Olympics which catapulted the Brownlee brothers into the public spotlight – and where Jonny gained a bronze medal.
“It was the best triathlon race there has ever been,” Jonny said.
“I get goosebumps talking about London 2012.”
As home favourites, Jonny and Alistair handled the pressure remarkably well – even after Jonny was given a time penalty for overstepping the transition line.
“I’ve never had one before or after.
I was just a bit eager.
I’m proud of the performance, that I didn’t let the penalty get to me, and I’m proud of the British crowd for putting on such a show.
“They were so loud you couldn’t hear athletes around you.
People stood five deep, and yet I could pick out the voices of old school teachers and friends in the crowd.
“I remember crossing the line, embracing Alistair, and realising we’d done it.”
Earlier that summer, Jonny graduated from Leeds, four years after his degree began.
“I did two years full time then split my third year over two years.
That allowed me to bridge the gap between school and becoming a professional athlete.
I think sometimes if you jump straight in from school you have too many hours, train too much, get injured and get worse.”
So is that the reason Jonny has remained at the top of the sport for so long, as those around him have retired?
Already this year, Jonny has been competing in the World Series, and he took silver in the European Triathlon Championships in Madrid.
“I only realised how long I’ve been doing it at an event last year when I saw a lot of the people I used to race against are now coaches,” Jonny says.
“I try and look after myself with sleeping and eating.
But I think the main thing is the enjoyment.
If the training was a struggle it would be hard to keep going.
But for me, it’s the best thing in the world.
“And through the Brownlee Foundation, I’m incredibly proud that we’re able to help the next generation experience that joy, too.”
For further details, email Ed Newbould, Digital Communications Officer, University of Leeds at e.w.newbould@leeds.ac.uk.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news-alumni/news/article/5319/karina-antram-how-to-fix-your-fatigue:
After suffering from burnout during her career, Karina Antram got to the root of the issue.
She retrained as a nutritionist, and shares her five steps to fixing fatigue.
Karina Antram (Business Management 2007) returned to Leeds for the first time since graduating to star on Channel 4’s Steph’s Packed Lunch.
She spoke about her best-selling book, Fix Your Fatigue, which reached the top 10 bestseller charts on Amazon.
“During my career working in a series of corporate roles, I suffered from burnout,” Karina says.
“By retraining as a nutritionist and drawing on my experiences, I am able to empower people to look after their own health.”
Her clinic is increasingly busy – a pattern linked to the impacts of long Covid and workplace stresses – and Karina knew she could reach even more people through writing.
“People need to realise that being tired all the time is not normal.
“The problem with fatigue is that it doesn’t go away unless you identify the cause.
It’s only when I quit my job, broke the vicious cycle of burnout and started making changes that I managed to do so.”
Listen to Karina talk through her steps to fix your fatigue in our Leeds Voices podcast.
When Karina graduated from Leeds, her career was heading in a very different direction.
“I loved my time at Leeds,” she says.
“I tried to set up my own business on graduating, but it was a big failure.
Failures are important though, and I learnt a lot.”
Karina sought a corporate job, but in a high performance, high stress culture, suffered repeated burnout and fatigue.
“I based my career choices around status and what I was going to earn.
It was never the right career choice at all.
I wanted a job that was seen to look good.
“I was always unwell.
I had broken sleep, headaches, pins and needles, aches and pains, tinnitus, gastrointestinal issues, dizziness and nausea.
“If you know that you don’t feel yourself for no reason whatsoever, that’s when you need to seek support.”
During her road to recovery, Karina recognised it was the accumulation and change of daily habits which made a difference – from bedtime routine, to dietary changes.
“Take a tiny action each day and be consistent.
If you set a huge goal you can’t meet, that isn’t going to work.”
Combining her personal experience, expertise and scientific research, Fix Your Fatigue focusses on the tired reader – when she was suffering, Karina found books were heavy on science and didn’t account for the fatigued mind.
That’s why at the end of each chapter, a “Too Tired, Didn't Read” section summarises what the reader might have missed.
In the following section, Karina shares the five key areas to focus on in order to fix your fatigue.
“We need to focus on big nutrition,” Karina says.
“That’s nutrition that helps the brain, immune and gut.
I want people to think about creating a balanced plate with good nutrient density by adding to the plate, not taking away.”
One way of doing so is by tweaking family favourites.
“Next time you’re making a spaghetti bolognese, try replacing half the meat with lentils, and half the pasta with spiralized vegetables.
That way you’re getting your micronutrients and improving digestion.”
“There’s a bidirectional link between the gut and the brain, and that’s why a healthy gut microbiome is so important.
Often our plates of food are beige, when research suggests we need to eat 30 different plants a week – which includes herbs and spices or nuts and seeds.”
Karina encourages readers to focus on increasing the volume of prebiotic (a form of dietary fibre) and probiotic (live micro-organisms found in foods such as yogurt) foods.
She also points to stress reduction techniques such as diagrammatic breathing, which reduces the likelihood of having a stressed-out tummy.
“One of my first signs of fatigue was when I stopped sleeping well,” Karina said.
“That creates quite a spiral as your mental, physical and emotional health takes a battering and you start to make poor food choices.”
Karina shares lots of tricks to optimise sleep – for example, two cups of magnesium flakes in the bath can help induce sleep.
She suggests a walk first thing in the morning can reset the circadian clock, and keeping the same sleep and wake time is key.
“Exercise is really important too,” she says.
“That doesn’t mean taking 10,000 steps a day.
4,400 steps a day has huge health benefits, and that can be achieved through regular movement you interweave into your day.”
Supplements are often debated amongst nutritionists, but Karina is in favour: “For me, soil quality isn’t as mineral rich as it used to be and food transported from other countries loses minerals.
On top of that, 50% of food we eat is ultra-processed, so sometimes we need to supplement.
I adopt a food first approach, then introduce supplements.”
“When I was fatigued, my brain was spent,” Karina says.
“It’s important to de-clutter your brain in order to start the day afresh and that way all the other steps should fall into place.”
Karina suggests readers try creating morning pages: “Write three pages of notes of consciousness first thing in a morning to de-clutter your mind and maximise brain energy.”

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni-news/news/article/5303/too-good-to-go-protecting-pockets-and-the-planet:
At a time of rising food prices and a deepening climate crisis, Jamie Crummie has created a global phenomenon which helps customers rescue unsold food from businesses, saving it from going to waste.
Whilst attending an event during his year abroad, Jamie Crummie (Law 2014) witnessed food waste bins being filled with no effort to reuse or recycle – and he wondered at the damage being caused.
A little digging provided some astonishing answers: “Forty per cent of food produced in the world is wasted at a cost of £20 billion per year,” Jamie said.
“For context, the annual police budget in the UK is £2.5 billion.”
With 10 per cent of the world’s greenhouse gas emissions coming from food waste (Eurostat 2022), Jamie was motivated to act.
With the support of the SPARK programme – the University’s business start-up service – Jamie launched Too Good To Go in 2016.
The mobile app enables users to purchase unsold food from restaurants in a “surprise bag” – before it hits the bin.
As of April 2023, Too Good To Go has over 100 million app users across 17 countries, and has saved 195 million meals around the globe.
Listen to Jamie’s fascinating story of going from food waste activist to entrepreneur on our Leeds Voices podcast.
For aspirant barrister Jamie, entrepreneurship was not part of the career plan.
But during his study abroad year in Australia the volume of food waste troubled him, and things began to change.
“I’ve always been someone who challenges,” Jamie said.
“Knowing something isn’t right isn’t enough.
After Australia, I returned to the UK and worked with a Leeds catering company who repurposed food – curry, casserole, stew, it was great.
Speaking to them really inspired me.
I became more informed about the problem.”
Paradoxically, alongside the issue of food waste, there exist severe food shortages; four million UK school children go to school hungry each day and ten per cent of the world’s population go to bed hungry each night.
Jamie and co-founder Christopher Wilson (English and Spanish 2014) set out to redistribute food before it hit the bin.
Alongside like-minded entrepreneurs in Copenhagen, they created an app – which initially began as a web shop – on which businesses list surplus food each day.
Customers then purchase a “surprise bag”, named accordingly because they don’t know what they will get – for just £5.
“It’s a three-way win,” Jamie explained.
“The customer is getting £15 worth of food for £5 while discovering new food and businesses.
The business recovers the cost of ingredients and reduces waste, while attracting new people to the business.
And food waste is being reduced dramatically, helping to protect the environment.
“I was an activist when I set out, not an entrepreneur,” Jamie said.
“My parents used to take me along to picket lines and marches.
I set up Too Good To Go to help address social and environmental issues, and I can see the parallel between activism and social entrepreneurship now.”
Too Good To Go takes a fee per meal rescued, which helped to create a viable business – but only if the business customers signed up in the first place.
“We were foot soldiers at the start, knocking on doors and trying to build a brand, and we’re very grateful to those early adopters who helped us gain traction and get the bigger brands on board.”
They joined the SPARK incubator – a programme available to alumni up to seven years after graduation – which provided advice in areas such as accounting and law, mentoring, grant funding and workshops.
“SPARK kick-started our growth.
Pitching to the programme was invaluable experience, because it was very similar to pitching to business owners and investors down the line, and we were able to get live feedback and improve.”
The brand continues to grow; with the rise in global food prices globally, Too Good To Go provides an invaluable solution to those struggling with the cost of food.
For Jamie and the team, however, there is still work to do.
“We’re vision driven.
We’re trying to create impact on a bigger scale and reduce food waste – so alongside the app we also provide educational material for schools, we’ve done work in public affairs, we’ve spoken at COP conferences and within the EU, advocating for greater legislation around food waste.
“We’re doing all we can, but ultimately we all need to play a part.
And that starts with reducing our waste.”

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news-alumni/news/article/5260/reporting-from-the-epicentre-of-the-story:
Hind Hassan broadcasts from the most hostile environments in the world – from the conflict in Ukraine, to the devastating earthquake in Turkey and Syria – elevating the voices of those unheard.
Last year award-winning VICE News journalist Hind Hassan (Medicinal Chemistry 2007) found herself at the centre of an armed bank raid.
She spent 16 hours broadcasting the siege in Lebanon to thousands of followers online, filming the antagonists with guns, Molotov cocktails, and gasoline.
The difference between this raid and others was the armed depositors were not stealing, they were trying to get their own money out of the bank.
As a result of the 2019 financial crisis in Lebanon, banks began prohibiting normal people from withdrawing more than $400 (£336) a month.
This has caused untold anguish to families with medical bills, school fees, and issues just making ends meet.
“For me, journalism is about elevating the voices of those with less power,” Hind said.
“Yes, it’s often dangerous, and you’re often seeing a lot of trauma and pain – those people were being denied access to savings, and they needed them to pay for medicine for family members, for education.
But I have an opportunity to tell those stories.
“I want to ask the viewer, what would you do if it was you?”
Working for Sky News for eight years, and then seven years with VICE News, Hind’s work has seen her report from across the globe.
Listen to Hind’s experience of warzones, natural disasters and humanitarian crises on our Leeds Voices podcast.
Such a career had not crossed Hind’s mind when she arrived in Leeds.
Born in Iraq, her family moved to the UK when her father gained a scholarship to study at the University of Hull.
“We were a family of scientists, and that’s the career path I was expected to follow.”
But once here, Hind began working for Leeds Student – the student newspaper – and her connection to Iraq attracted her towards the career.
“I could see these injustices taking place in Iraq, and I wanted to elevate the voices of those victims – the people being displaced, experiencing abuses and atrocities.
I just didn’t know how to do it.
When I started working on the newspaper, I realised there was a way.
I soon became more involved in the union than I did with my course – not that my parents were very happy about it.”
After a year as Equality and Diversity Officer at Leeds University Union, Hind gained a scholarship for her master’s in Broadcast Journalism.
On graduating, a role followed at Sky News – where she cut her teeth as a young journalist.
“Those were long days, 10 or 11-hour shifts producing news reports.
It wasn’t how I imagined journalism would be, but I never thought of quitting, because I had an aim to work on a certain type of story.
I wanted the international news.
“Journalism remains elitist, and as well as issues around the focus on a woman’s appearance, we also need greater diversity in class, birthplace, and accents.
Journalism is about telling stories, and that is more effective if you’re from those communities.”
Hind’s upbringing in Iraq played a role in one particular deployment – and the chance to report from her country of birth.
“There was a large offensive against ISIS in Mosul,” she said.
“I said to the bosses, I’m from Iraq, I speak Arabic, I understand the region.
Let me go.
“I’m grateful they said yes.”
Hind has gained a reputation for insightful reporting on the lives of those impacted by tragedy.
Her role at VICE has allowed her to produce longer reports, visiting interviewees multiple times, allowing viewers to immerse themselves in the stories.
She embedded with the Taliban months before the group’s takeover of Kabul, and was on the ground in Jerusalem and Gaza ahead of the military offensive on the Strip in 2021.
Most recently, she travelled to Turkey and Syria following the devastating earthquake.
“We interviewed a Brazilian rescue worker,” Hind said.
“She’d literally woken up, heard about the earthquake, and flown out to Turkey.
She was rescuing lives from the rubble – we saw two people get pulled out.
Every single story, there are incredible people like that.
Their kindness stays with you.”
But with it comes the agony.
In Turkey, Hind witnessed the international teams flying out to support the injured.
In Syria, there was no such operation.
“We spoke with a woman who’d been under the rubble for 60 hours.
She’d dug herself out and her hands were marked from it.
She then found out her daughter had been killed.
“The Syrians had accepted there was no help coming.
They could only help each other.”
Such tragedy leaves a mark on Hind, as she describes the “guilt” she feels at being able to walk away.
There is also an inherent risk – whilst reporting from Ukraine, the building next to Hind’s hotel was destroyed by three missiles in the night.
“But ultimately, these people need to be heard.
I’m grateful to have the opportunity to do what I always wanted to do.”
Discover more Leeds alumni features on International Women’s Day 2023 , as we celebrate inspiring women in the global Leeds community.
For further details, email Ed Newbould, Digital Communications Officer, University of Leeds at e.w.newbould@leeds.ac.uk.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news-alumni/news/article/5244/powering-the-future:
Charlie Jardine (Design 2013) started his first company when studying at Leeds.
Ten years on, the CEO and Founder of EO Charging is creating the infrastructure for a transport revolution.
For Charlie, it was all a matter of timing – arriving at Leeds as the University developed its award-winning programme to nurture entrepreneurial talent; entering the electric vehicle industry during a global transformation in the way we travel; and starting a business when space became available in his grandfather’s pig shed.
EO Charging manufactures and provides charging solutions for electric vehicles, with a particular focus on the commercial fleet market.
Since Charlie founded the company in a barn in Suffolk in 2014, the electric vehicle market has grown at 300 per cent each year.
“The industry changed before my eyes,” Charlie said.
“And there aren’t many times in your life that is going to happen.”
With clients now including Amazon, Sainsbury's, Tesco, GoAhead London and Uber, Charlie was named in Forbes 30-under-30 list in 2019 and won the Rising Sustainability Star award at Sustainability Leaders Awards in 2019.
He is well placed on his mission to make EO Charging the number one electric vehicle charging solutions provider globally by 2025 – and help fight the climate crisis in the process.
For Charlie, his passion for the latter keeps him motivated.
“I couldn’t do something if it was just for monetary gain.
The climate crisis is the greatest challenge of all.
I have to wake up on a morning knowing I am making a difference.”
But when Charlie arrived at Leeds, he was still looking for that driver.
“I had no interest in academia at school – I just didn’t see the point.
I was always creative, though, and I enjoyed designing things.
I’m also very competitive.” It was the perfect combination to get involved with SPARK, the University’s business start-up service.
He entered the business plan competition, which gives students the opportunity to pitch a business idea to gain funding and support – and Charlie was successful.
“My idea was to create waterproof style onesies that were both warm and practical at festivals,” he said.
“We called it Rusty Can Ltd.
The problem was, I had no idea how to start a business.”
“The enterprise scheme at Leeds taught me how things were done.”
An alumni-funded enterprise scholarship meant Charlie received advice, mentoring, and tailored business support from experts.
“That was incredibly important to me,” Charlie said.
“Rusty Can didn’t work out in the end, the enterprise scheme at Leeds taught me how things were done.”
On graduating, Charlie worked for Pod Point, a manufacturer of electric vehicle charging stations based in London – a job that made him “very passionate” about the industry.
After two years, Charlie decided to take matters into his own hands.
“Everyone in my family is a business owner, and I’d learnt a lot during my time at Leeds.
It was definitely time.”
In 2014, Charlie set to work designing his first charger on his grandfather's farm, before launching the product in 2016.
Although cars dominated electric vehicle sales, Charlie recognised an opportunity to be one of the first in the market charging commercial vehicle fleets.
“People were sceptical of electric vehicles when we started.
But now, with the UK ending the sale of new petrol and diesel vehicles from 2030, and the recent rapid increase in the cost of fuel, the transition to electric is exponential.”
EO Charging has developed a wide range of electric vehicle charging stations and cloud-based software for fleets and homes.
They install charging points, and develop and manage the software that operates them.
And that’s more than just plugging in, as Charlie explained: “Our software collects data from the fleet and the building, and works out the cheapest and most effective time to charge.
“We are also working on a vehicle-to-grid system.
Once available, that will enable you to take power out of your car and put it into your home or back into the grid in exchange for money.”
This innovative functionality and constant refinement is rooted in Charlie’s passion for design and sustainability.
As well as driving a greener future through their products, EO Charging reduce their own carbon footprint by manufacturing in Suffolk and using a UK supply chain.
Charlie’s team has now grown to over 200 people, with over 80,000 charge points installed across 35 countries.
Perhaps, we might suggest, EO Charging is already well on the way to becoming a world leader in the industry?
Charlie smiled.
“We’re just getting started.”
For further details, email Ed Newbould, Digital Communications Officer at e.w.newbould@leeds.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news-alumni/news/article/5189/power-meri-the-rise-of-women-s-rugby-league-in-papua-new-guinea:
A film created by a Leeds alum charts the rise of women’s rugby league in Papua New Guinea, helping to tackle gender inequality in the country.
They arrived in Leeds for the Rugby League World Cup.
“It is more than a film,” says Joanna Lester (History, 2006).
“Papua New Guinea (PNG) faces considerable challenges on the path towards gender equality.
But sport creates opportunities for societal change.”
PNG has been identified by human rights organisations as one of the toughest places in the world to be a woman, with high rates of sexual abuse and domestic violence.
But in a divided country, rugby league – the national sport – is a uniting force.
Journalist and documentary filmmaker Joanna set out in 2017 to tell the historic story of the country's first national women's rugby league team, the PNG Orchids.
The resulting film, Power Meri, has changed the conversation about the status and treatment of women.
Joanna returned to Leeds with the PNG Orchids for the Rugby League World Cup (RLWC2021) this autumn.
“I was a rugby league fan growing up and I used to watch the games at Headingley.
Bringing the team here, I’ve been acting as a tour guide.
It’s really nice to be back – it’s where my journalism career began, too.”
During her studies at Leeds, Joanna was sports editor at the Leeds Student newspaper and, at various times, Head of News and Head of Sport at Leeds Student Radio (LSR).
“We had LSR come in to interview some of the PNG players last week which really brought things full circle.”
After moving to Australia in 2008, Joanna went to PNG in a volunteer role in 2014.
It suited her love of rugby league, given it was the national sport there.
“But I didn’t want to just report on games,” Joanna says.
“I was interested in the impact sport can have.”
It is common for boys to be given priority access to education over girls in PNG, and, until the recent elections, it was one of a handful of countries in the world that had no female politicians.
Learning from her PNG colleagues, Joanna could see there was an opportunity to leverage the popularity of rugby league in PNG to pass on key messages around gender equality and society.
When the women’s side formed in 2017, she started filming.
Power Meri documents the story of the women’s team from inception to the world stage at the 2017 World Cup.
It explores the individual challenges faced by the women in their own words and their journeys to acceptance within their communities, inspiring many of the team’s current stars to try rugby league – the likes of team captain Elsie Albert, who took up the sport in 2018 and initially didn’t dare tell her parents that she was playing.
“The first they knew of Elsie playing was when she appeared on the front page of a national newspaper following a performance in a game over in Australia,” Joanna says.
“She has spoken about how she didn’t answer her dad’s phone calls for weeks because she was afraid of what he would say.
“Now she’s the most successful player in the team as the first PNG woman to move to Australia to play professionally.
Her parents are now supportive.”
The film launched internationally in late 2018, featured in 12 premieres around the world and continues to be released and broadcast in new countries.
It has been nominated for several awards, including the Sport Australia Media Awards, where it won best depiction of inclusive sport.
But for Joanna, it is the wider impact that truly matters.
“Screenings of the film are often accompanied by discussions and other outreach activities to explore its meaning, and encourage community conversations about the themes raised.
The players who starred in the film have been a key part of these events.
“We have anecdotal evidence and feedback that it has changed mindsets in PNG.
The players have become ambassadors for the sport and there’s been a huge increase in girls playing rugby league in the country.
Some sponsors have said they will only sponsor the men’s national team (the Kumuls) if they can also sponsor the Orchids.
It’s truly making a difference.”
Despite a poor performance at their first World Cup in 2017 – and a wave of social media abuse which highlighted the work still to be done – their campaign in Leeds began on a much more positive note.
“We won our first game against Canada 34-12, a huge moment for the Orchids.
The response was fantastic – particularly on social media – and that shows how far we’ve come.”
The next Orchids game in Leeds was a loss to England, a game where we wonder which way Joanna’s allegiances swung?
She smiles.
“I will always support PNG.
I know the impact this sport has on the people and the unity it brings.
“Success at the World Cup means genuine changes in perception of women in the country, and that could change lives.”
Find out more about Power Meri and how to watch the film on the Power Meri website .
Catch our interview with England Rugby League star and Leeds alum Jodie Cunningham on the Forever Leeds podcast
For further details, email University of Leeds Digital Communications Officer Ed Newbould at e.w.newbould@leeds.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni-news/news/article/5154/using-leeds-knowledge-to-save-lives:
Poison Information Coordinator Sherika Whitelocke-Ballingsingh (MPh Public Health 2016) has received international recognition for her work to prevent lead poisoning in children across Jamaica.
“Lead exposure can have devastating consequences for children,” Sherika said.
At low levels of exposure lead poisoning can affect child brain development.
At high levels, lead attacks the brain and central nervous system and can result in death.
But thanks to Sherika, the threat to children in Jamaica has reduced.
“The standards we have put in place to determine lead quantities in paint and help alleviate issues, such as informal battery smelting, affect the entire population of the country.”
When Sherika came to Leeds on a Chevening Scholarship – a competitive, fully-funded scholarship to undertake a master's course at any UK university – her work to improve public health in Jamaica concentrated upon local impact.
“But Leeds shifted my thinking,” she said.
“I realised I needed to look nationally and internationally to truly make a difference.
My time at Leeds equipped me with the skills to do so.”
The resulting collaboration with the United Nations (UN), International Pollutants Elimination Network (IPEN) and the World Health Organisation (WHO) has seen Sherika gain recognition as a global finalist in the Study UK Alumni Awards.
Leeds changed everything
Sherika is motivated by her early experiences in the field.
She started out as a public health inspector in low income communities, seeing first-hand the impact of lead exposure.
“It is not a new issue in Jamaica – but it simply hasn’t been discussed enough in the past.
“Jamaica’s informal battery smelting industry (the refurbishment of old car batteries), use of mined lands and lead paints are key causes.
The resultant exposure poses a serious public health challenge and a huge economic burden to the country.”
Sherika visited schools and smaller communities in her role for the Caribbean Poison Information Network at the University of Technology, Jamaica, aiming to raise awareness and advise, but knew she needed more knowledge to effect larger scale change.
She studied alongside her work, undertaking a course in environmental management, before applying for the Chevening Scholarship in 2015 and gaining a place at Leeds.
“Leeds changed everything for me.
I loved the friendliness of the people and the beauty of the countryside.
“But on top of that, the curriculum was inspiring – we learnt about models to manage a country-wide health system, how you manage a healthcare facility and forge partnerships in the community to achieve health goals.
I suddenly had the resources, global experts, and student support to climb to the next level of my career journey.
“We had a number of problems in Jamaica, including inadequate public awareness and an absence of policy and legislation.
When I returned, I was determined to put what I had learnt into practice to address these issues.”
Sherika lobbied the government to do more to protect people from lead poisoning.
She spoke at press conferences about impact and solutions, and was soon contacted by others around the globe to discuss the issue.
This led to partnerships with the UN and WHO.
She joined IPEN, learning how to “create dialogue at an international level”, advocating for government programmes, greater monitoring of children and environmental sampling.
As Sherika described it: “By elevating local problems to global discussions, I helped to ensure national impact.
It’s important to then push locally to ensure policy makers adhere to the schemes they sign up to.
“I’d advise any fellow Leeds graduates not to take your Leeds knowledge for granted and to apply it practically to make an impact.”
For Sherika, her greatest achievement to date has been the implementation of a regulatory framework for lead paint in Jamaica – a move that would also help her gain international recognition as a global finalist in the Study UK Alumni Awards.
“It’s something tangible which has been placed in law, a compulsory standard which will protect 2.9 million people.
We’re not finished, but it was pleasing to see that outcome.”
Sherika plans to continue to advocate and apply her experiences to effect change in Jamaica and across the world.
As she sees it, it is a responsibility to those communities she worked with at the start of her career.
“I’ve been lucky enough to have the opportunity to gain knowledge that can make a difference.
Therefore, I have a responsibility to help those who cannot access that knowledge.
“The more I get given in life, the more I feel I should give back.”
To find out more about how to apply for the Study UK Alumni Awards and to learn about previous Leeds winners, visit our Study UK Alumni Awards page .
For further details, email Ed Newbould, Digital Communications Officer, University of Leeds via e.w.newbould@leeds.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news-alumni/news/article/5139/eurovision-one-leeds-graduate-s-road-to-success-in-the-song-contest:
TV and digital broadcast producer Joe Mason discusses his part in turning around the UK’s fortunes in Eurovision.
Leeds is currently buzzing with excitement.
The city has been shortlisted as one of the potential hosts of next year’s Eurovision Song Contest.
And one Leeds graduate was at the heart of this year’s UK entry.
Joe Mason (Broadcast Journalism 2014) worked as a digital producer for the BBC in Turin, where Sam Ryder’s song Spaceman won second place.
It was an astonishing turnaround considering the UK’s entry in 2021 received the dreaded ‘nul points’ in Rotterdam.
“It’s super exciting, we can’t take away from an outstanding victory from Ukraine,” he said.
“Kalush Orchestra were absolutely amazing.
But it does feel like a win for the United Kingdom.
“It’s going to be a massive honour for the UK to host Eurovision in our house.
It’s Ukraine’s party, we’re just providing the house for it.”
Listen to Joe’s journey on the latest edition of the in My Leeds Story podcast.
The UK was named as next year’s host for Eurovision after the decision was made to not have the contest in Ukraine, due to the ongoing conflict with Russia.
And for those who worked on the UK’s campaign, it’s been an opportunity to dispel some of the preconceptions that many Brits had of the so-called ‘politics’ of Eurovision voting.
“I know a lot of people in the UK used to blame politics, or they’d say nobody in Europe likes us.
But I knew that wasn’t the case,” Joe said.
“I would sit there watching at home and I would just be getting frustrated by the UK’s results, and I just wanted to learn and understand why we weren’t doing so well in the contest.”
His passion for Eurovision took him to the European Broadcasting Union (EBU) - the main organisers of Eurovision – in Switzerland, before returning to the UK in 2020.
Sam then got a job as a freelance digital producer for the BBC, and after the country’s humiliation in Rotterdam, the small team worked “to change the fate of Eurovision in the UK”.
For Joe, his journey to working on Eurovision all started with the skills he attained while studying at Leeds.
“My time at Leeds was a total game changer in terms of everything I ended up doing in my career.
“Leeds provided so many opportunities for me.
I was heavily involved in the student TV station and student radio.
That partnership between the university and union was something I never anticipated I would benefit from, going to university.”
The host city for next year’s contest will be announced in the autumn, with the bidding process well under way.
Joe is waiting with bated breath – like the rest of us – for the result.
If Leeds is crowned the winner, he knows exactly where he’ll be taking the UK’s Sam Ryder on a night out.
“If Sam Ryder was coming to Leeds, there’s only one place I could take him [for a drink] and that’s The Old Bar in Leeds University Union.
It’s the place where every night starts and it’s the place where every night should end.”

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news-alumni/news/article/5109/toyin-wins-award-for-her-work-in-engineering:
Toyin Jegede is a trailblazer who has been  named an "Engineering Hero" by Nigeria's professional women engineers association.
“Coming to Leeds was one of the best decisions of my life,” says Toyin (PhD Engineering 2018).
After completing her first degree in Metallurgy and Materials, at the University of Lagos, Nigeria, she remained at the University, joining the technical staff.
“I always loved researching, reading and working in the lab – and had always wanted to take it further.
One day I simply decided to apply for a PhD.
One of my professors at the University of Lagos had studied at Leeds, and he recommended it – both for the quality of its teaching and research and for the support it would give me as someone with a disability.”
Toyin secured a Commonwealth Scholarship under a British Government programme.
Such scholarships, available only to talented and motivated students from the Commonwealth’s least developed countries, are aimed at those who otherwise couldn’t afford to study in the UK.
But even with this vital funding secured, it was a big step for Toyin: “It was my first time in the UK – and it was difficult at first, particularly getting around in the snow.”
But she soon settled into her studies in the School of Chemical and Process Engineering: “The support I received in Leeds, both academically and with my disability, was absolutely fantastic.” Her thesis, ‘Metastable Liquid Phase Separation in Co-Cu Alloys’, examined the properties and features of new structures in immiscible alloys which can be designed for specific technological purposes.
Following her graduation, Toyin returned to the University of Lagos: “One of the conditions of the Scholarship is that recipients are given study leave from their work – and must then return to their institution for the same period of time that they have been away,” she says.
“So I’ve been busy working, writing the chapter for a publication and on other research activities.”
Toyin has also been inspiring others to follow in her footsteps.
She established the University’s collegiate branch of the Association of Professional Women Engineers in Nigeria (APWEN), running events and activities for female engineering students to encourage them to progress.
“In Nigeria, few women go beyond Masters Degree level, and it’s even more rare to see a woman with a disability in engineering.
“Basically I’m saying to people: ‘I’m an engineer, female and physically challenged.
It’s not easy, but I get by.’”
The power of that message is so strong that APWEN conferred on Toyin its Engineering Hero award ‘For breaking the glass ceiling as a physically challenged trained and registered engineer’.
And she was also recently shortlisted for the 100 Most Influential Female Engineers in Africa Awards by the Federation of African Engineering Organisations.
Even so, she knows that she must now move on if she is to push her research further.
“This kind of research is impossible in Nigeria.
Even in England, only Leeds and Cambridge Universities have the kind of facilities and apparatus needed for this work.
“It was really humbling to be nominated for these awards, but I get more pleasure from working hard, keeping up the pace – and helping others to succeed.”
For further details, contact Simon Jenkins, Communications Officer at the University of Leeds, by email on S.Jenkins@leeds.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news-alumni/news/article/5085/ten-years-leading-the-seychelles-economy:
As Governor of the Central Bank of Seychelles (CBS), Caroline Abel (Economics Studies 1999) is one of the most influential figures in a country navigating extraordinary global events.
What began as a childhood love for mathematics has culminated in the Global Women Achievers Award at the 2022 World Women Leadership Congress Awards in Mumbai.
“Covid-19 has been our biggest challenge since the Bank was established four decades ago,” Caroline says.
“The shutdown of the tourism sector, which has a direct contribution of around 30% of our gross domestic product, caused the economy to come a standstill.
“I don’t see challenges as negatives, though.
I see them as opportunities to do new and different things each day.”
This mind-set, adopted during Caroline’s time at Leeds, has proven effective ever since – as well as the recent accolade, Caroline was presented with the Africa's Woman Leaders Award and named Central Bank Governor of the Year in 2020.
Most importantly for her, however, is that Seychelles has emerged from the pandemic in a healthier financial position than anticipated.
Caroline traces her approach back to her upbringing and lessons taught by her father, Antoine Abel – a man described as the Father of Seychelles Literature for bringing his country’s culture and language to the world stage.
“Whenever I had a problem, he never gave me an answer, but he asked more questions.
He wanted me to understand that you have to look at problems from different angles.
“This principle still helps me every day – I have to make a lot of decisions and I have to look at all the policy implications.”
Where Antoine found his calling in words, Caroline was drawn to numbers: “I loved mathematics and my father thought I should become an accountant, but the career didn’t appeal to me.
I decided to go straight into work from school to gain experience, and that’s where it all started for me to eventually become a central banker.”
Caroline worked at the Social Security Fund for four months before joining CBS in 1994 – quickly realising she enjoyed the challenge and variety.
“I spent two years working in various departments and was fortunate enough to gain a place at Leeds through our CBS scholarship programme.
“That was really critical for me.
I wouldn’t be where I am now without that time at Leeds.”
“It was my first time outside of Seychelles, so of course I was a bit apprehensive, but when I got to Leeds I discovered a friendly community both at the University and in the city.
Everywhere you went, people would welcome and help you.
In fact, I even stayed in Leeds during the holidays to enjoy the countryside and other parts of the UK.
“The teaching was excellent.
The University community was so diverse, a place where cultures converged and learned from one another, and that was very special.”
Following in Caroline’s footsteps, CBS continues to sponsor young professionals to study at Leeds University Business School.
Education, for Caroline, is the key area that aspiring finance students cannot neglect: “Training is the most important thing.
You need a good grounding, then you must continue to develop because the world of finance is very competitive and it’s always changing.
“It’s getting even more diverse and requires expertise beyond people with financial backgrounds to tackle emerging issues, such as climate change.
We didn’t speak about it in the world of finance when I started, but now environmentalists play a big role.”
Her growing experience and expertise saw Caroline appointed Deputy Governor in 2010, and in 2012 she was called on by the President of Seychelles to become the first female Governor in the country’s history.
“It was a great honour,” she says – although where others mentioned it, gender didn’t really cross her mind.
“I think CBS leads on that front.
We don’t look at gender, we look at ability and performance.”
That doesn’t mean there weren’t challenges given the global nature of her work, where the gender gap was more notable.
“In international meetings I was often the only woman in the room, and that’s still the case.
More can be done – at CBS, for example, we knew that family commitments were often compromising women’s progression.
We’ve provided more flexible working for employees, so we were home-working long before Covid-19.
We help to ensure women can go as far as they want to go.”
Caroline was re-appointed after her first six-year term and has worked under three presidents of Seychelles.
Her responsibilities – keeping the cost of living stable, monitoring the financial system and ensuring banks are run well – became more challenging during Covid-19, but the recent awards acknowledge her success.
In particular, she is credited with developing transparency, supporting digitisation and collaborating across ministries.
“We improved communication.
We are talking more to the public and particularly during the pandemic, we helped the population understand what was going on and how they would be impacted.
It’s helped us to understand concerns much better, which helps us to improve.
We designed new policies to support the private sector, and thankfully now tourism has quickly recovered.
“Now we move onto the next challenge: the increase in the cost of living.”
Caroline acknowledges the “hard work” and “long hours” involved in the job, but it is a role she relishes – and for which she has been duly recognised.
“Every day there is something new to get to grips with.
“I walk around the building once a week and talk to staff to understand issues, then we make decisions.
The awards are for their work and the work of CBS.
This is a team effort.”
For more information, contact Ed Newbould, Digital Communications Officer at the University of Leeds, by email on e.w.newbould@leeds.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news-alumni/news/article/5084/bafta-winning-producer-learnt-his-trade-at-leeds-student-television:
BAFTA award-winning producer Trevor Klein (Political Studies 2006) explains how his time in Leeds Student Television society changed his career, as he launches another hit TV show.
When Trevor Klein (Political Studies 2006) enrolled at Leeds, a career in television hadn’t crossed his mind.
But joining the Leeds Student Television (LSTV) society changed all that, and now the BAFTA award-winning and Emmy-nominated producer has launched another hit TV show.
Trevor is series producer on CBBC’s Silverpoint, a new sci-fi drama series which follows four children whose lives spiral out of control following a strange discovery in the woods.
“It’s a little bit like Close Encounters meets Stranger Things,” Trevor says.
“I have special memories of those shows you can sit down and watch as a family.
It’s a privilege to create something that will help other people make those memories too.”
“When I was a teenager I made a 90-minute horror film,” Trevor says.
“But that was it, my school was very academically focussed.
When I came to Leeds, I enjoyed my course, but my plan was convert to law after my degree.
“That’s when I got chatting to a friend who encouraged me to come along to LSTV, and everything changed.”
Once in the society, Trevor tried his hand at scripting, writing and directing.
“We worked from what was pretty much a broom cupboard next to Old Bar,” Trevor laughs.
“Although I hear they have a really nice studio now.” Meeting deadlines for a live weekly broadcast aired in the Leeds University Union taught valuable lessons – although he jokes that “nobody ever actually watched it” – and making lifelong friends with students who went on to work in television proved more important than Trevor could have known.
The most significant of these friendships was Sophie Klein (née Parker) (Social Policy 2008), who later become Trevor’s wife.
“We met in the Old Bar during a society social and bonded over this fantastic shared interest.
“You mucked in with everything which was the beauty of it.
You really began to understand the fundamentals of how to make stuff.
Instead of just spending money on nights out we’d be spending it on equipment and costumes and props.
Crucially, it was before YouTube and nobody can look back on the quality of what we made!”
And even more importantly for Trevor, his experiences at LSTV helped him realise he could “do that kind of thing as a job”.
On graduating, Trevor moved in with some LSTV friends in London to try and find opportunities.
“A friend helped me to get a job as a logger, filtering through dashcam footage on Traffic Cops.
Once you have your foot in the door, you can go from there.”
Work followed at BBC Slink (soon absorbed into BBC Switch), an online magazine for teenage girls, and Somethin’ Else, a content design and creation company, where Trevor worked on apps and video games as Head of Development – a change in direction, but one to which Trevor was suited: “I realised that at Leeds I was producing.
I was bringing people together with a shared purpose and helping everyone to do their part.
That was what I enjoyed, and it transferred very well to creating apps and games.”
This versatility gave Trevor a niche and once he went freelance in 2014, it was this experience that landed him his biggest success to date: Secret Life of Boys.
“I was asked by production company Zodiak Kids to bring TV and interactivity together on the show, which was just my dream challenge.
For the first series the budget was small and we filmed it all on location in a real house, so there wasn’t a lot of room.
I did a lot of my work on set at a desk in one of the character’s bedrooms – it felt very student TV, actually!”
Secret Life of Boys ran for five series on CBBC, during which Trevor also worked as producer and executive producer, and in 2016 the show was named winner of BAFTA for Interactive: Original.
“It was a brilliant show to work on: you would have all this fun making giant hamster wheels, catapults launching cuddly toys, using so much gunge, and yet we were also telling meaningful stories.
“The cast went from being young kids to adults and we worked with largely the same crew, so we forged strong bonds.
It was very special.
“The fantastic thing about kids TV is that you can impact positively upon children growing up.
We have all been shaped by the TV shows we watch, and now I’m able to be a part of that process.”
Trevor has now worked as series producer on Silverpoint for two years, a time that has seen him and the industry adapt during Covid-19: “Zodiak Kids film the show in Northern Ireland and were just gearing up to start production, but of course work had to pause because of the pandemic.
“Thankfully, the nice thing about the creative industry is people are creative!
We put together protocols on how we could film safely and although we had to delay the start of our shoot, we were able to get back up and running in 2021.
“It’s such a brilliant show, we’re really proud of it.
I’d encourage adults and kids alike to watch it.”
Trevor and Sophie recently made the move back to Yorkshire to build their own creative business, focussing on developing new TV and digital projects.
They are excited about contributing to the thriving media community in the North: “The pandemic has normalised remote working and so with less of a pressure to be permanently in London, we decided it was a good time to move.
“Given it’s where it all began, of course we chose to head back to Yorkshire.”
To discuss creative project opportunities with Trevor and Sophie, visit the Fully Novel website.
Catch Silverpoint any time on BBC iPlayer, on Hulu (in the US) or watch live on CBBC at 5.05pm on Sundays.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news-alumni/news/article/5068/leeds-alum-captains-great-britain-to-bandy-world-championship-silver:
Former Leeds Gryphon Ice Hockey Club captain Nina Brown (Healthcare Science 2018) has led GB women’s bandy team to a world championship silver medal, helping to resurrect a historic sport in the UK.
“Bandy is played on ice and is a cross between ice hockey, field hockey and football,” says Nina.
“It was our first tournament so just to make history by fielding the first GB women’s bandy team was fantastic – coming home with a silver was something else.”
The name is taken from the verb “to bandy”, or strike back and forth.
Not derived – as this naïve interviewer speculated – from the story of a certain deer who struggled to stand on the ice.
Far from it, GB’s bandy team were selected for their skating ability from top level ice hockey players.
Nina, for example, captained the Leeds Gryphons team and played in the GB University squad: “Ice hockey was such an integral part of my Leeds experience.
I didn’t expect it to lead me to bandy, but when I got the call I leapt at the opportunity!”
Bandy originated in the Cambridgeshire Fens in the 19th Century when football and hockey games were disrupted by frozen fields, so people pulled their ice skates on instead.
“It’s a bigger pitch than an ice hockey rink,” says Nina.
“There are 11 players and we use field hockey style sticks, a ball, and we adhere to football rules.”
Bandy participation waned in the UK following an increased interest in ice hockey – although it remained popular in Scandinavia.
Following a trip to Sweden in 2018, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge tried their hands at the sport.
When the Duchess expressed a desire to see a women’s team founded back home, the wheels were put in motion.
“Originally, I wasn’t going to come to Leeds because it didn’t have an ice hockey team, but I realised I couldn’t base my decision on that alone.” Perhaps it was meant to be; it just so happened that the University’s first ice hockey team, Leeds Gryphons, formed in Nina’s first year.
“I was part of the original team and able to watch it grow.
We had a real range of abilities – from top Canadian players on a year abroad to complete beginners.”
“It was a huge part of my Leeds experience.
We trained at Bradford, carrying all our kit on the train, but now Leeds has a rink too.
I loved that routine: Thursday night training, weekend matches and then socials.”
Nina was selected to play GB universities ice hockey in Finland in third year.
She captained the Leeds team in her final year and represented Team GB in roller hockey in 2016.
When the bandy association formed, she proved the perfect candidate: “They scouted players such as myself who had played at that higher level before.
We had to commit 100 per cent, so they didn’t just want GB ice hockey players who had other priorities.
I was selected as captain, which was a real honour.”
And as a full-time paediatric audiologist in the NHS, Nina must fit her training around a busy work life.
“We trained together once a month up in Sheffield on the ice hockey rink, then every other week closer to the tournament.
There are no big bandy rinks in the UK, which makes things more challenging.
We went to Sweden for the World Championships with no expectations, because it was new to everyone involved.”
Nina and the team surprised themselves – and their opponents – by winning all their group games and a semi-final to face the Netherlands for the gold medal.
“It was 0-0 at full time in a really tense game, so we went to ten minutes of sudden death play,” Nina says.
“Unfortunately the Netherlands scored about five minutes into this which ended the game.”
Although hard to take at the time, with some perspective Nina knows it was a job well done: “It was heart-breaking having got so close to the gold, but we’re proud to come away with a silver medal.
It’s been a fantastic experience, it’s such a fun sport.”
After such a grand finale, it may seem strange to consider this just the beginning for the sport in the UK – and for Nina.
"There are plans for training camps and regional competitions going forward.
Hopefully we can get some grass roots involvement in the near future and help the sport to grow here, where it all began.
“I love it, so I’ll keep playing.
I also still play a lot of roller hockey, so it’d be great to gain selection for Team GB again with that.”
Even more so, perhaps, because roller hockey is being considered for selection in the 2028 Olympics?
“Never say never,” Nina laughs.
To follow the progress of the GB bandy team, follow the Great Britain Bandy Association on Facebook .
For more information, contact Ed Newbould, Digital Communications Officer at the University of Leeds, by email at e.w.newbould@leeds.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news-alumni/news/article/5066/geoff-identifies-300-new-species-of-aquatic-creatures:
Lockdown brought out the creative in us all.
Millions of people discovered new hobbies, nurturing talents they never knew they had.
Professor Geoff Boxshall FRS (BSc Zoology 1971, PhD 1974) has been spending the time in his back bedroom identifying new species of tiny crustaceans called copepods.
With the help of a colleague in Korea, he has described more than 300 new species in a small cluster of families of copepods that spend their lives as parasites of sea creatures called tunicates, or sea squirts.
“I simply wouldn’t have done that at any other time,” says Geoff, long since retired as a scientist at the Natural History Museum in London.
One is entitled to ask – why?
The answer is that Geoff has been fascinated by copepods (pronounced coe-pee-pod) his entire professional life, a love affair that began in his time at Leeds back in the late 1960s.
Copepods are arguably the most important creatures you probably haven’t heard of.
Although very tiny – most are about the size of a grain of rice – they are found wherever there is water, from the deepest oceans to lakes in the highest mountains, from pools formed by cup-shaped bromeliad plants in tropical forests to suburban puddles, and even in tap water.
“Copepods run the oceans,” says Geoff: “they are the link in the food chain between the phytoplankton and everything else”.
Almost every fish in the ocean feeds on copepods at some stage of its life.
A fish’s oily flesh is due to copepods in its diet.
Copepod faecal pellets sequester a vast amount of carbon.
They sink down from the sunlit surface waters of the ocean and are an important part of the carbon cycle.
Live copepods also have a potential use against malaria, as they can be released into water bodies where they will eat mosquito larvae.
But these busy and useful creatures have a dark side.
Parasitic copepods – fish lice – live on the external surfaces of fish and cause hundreds of millions of dollars of damage in farmed salmon.
Controlling fish lice is an ongoing problem.
Understanding parasitic copepods has been the core of Geoff’s career.
He first heard the word “copepod” when, as an undergraduate, he was working at the University’s marine biology field station at Robin Hood’s Bay on the Yorkshire coast.
His mentor was Robert Wynne Owen (1924–1985), an authority on the parasites of fish.
Geoff would bring Owen a parasite and he would say “goodness, I don’t know what that is, it must be a copepod”.
And that was it.
Geoff’s course was set.
After gaining his degree in zoology he stayed at Leeds to do a PhD on parasitic copepods, working under Owen’s tutelage at Robin Hood’s Bay.
Owen knew about parasitology – just not about parasitic copepods.
“I don’t know anything about them,” he told his young protégé.
“It would be interesting to learn together”.
After submitting his doctorate, Geoff cast around for a lectureship in parasitology at a British university, but none were advertised that year.
But, it so happened that the Natural History Museum in London (NHM) was advertising for a copepod specialist.
“The only time in a century, I imagine, that they were so specific in what they were looking for,” he recalls.
The NHM has a magnetic attraction for any young scientist interested in the diversity of life on our planet.
Having moved from Hampshire to London at the age of 16, the Museum was an obvious destination, only “a few pennies on the number 30 bus  – a very alluring place, and I loved it.
So when I got offered a job there I just jumped at it and never really regretted it.”
That was 1974 – he stayed until his retirement in 2017.
Even then he went in three or four days a week, but then COVID-19 hit.
He moved his museum microscopes to his home and caught up with the housekeeping of describing hundreds of copepods new to science.
His first NHM job had a catch, though.
The job involved expertise in planktonic copepods, rather than parasitic ones.
He made the leap and for his first five years became immersed in the very different world of planktonic copepods – living free and busy lives supporting the global food chain, in the sunlit surface layer of the ocean.
“That was the making of me”, he says.
Museum scientists represent the public face of biology and are obliged to deal with inquiries from wherever they might come.
One of the most memorable came from New York City.
Copepods had been found in the drinking water supply, and Geoff became involved in the question of whether drinking tap water might be permissible for Jewish residents, as crustaceans are not kosher.
(The solution was to filter the water before use).
Copepods really do get wherever there is water, and Geoff didn’t have to go far to look for specimens.
They swarmed in a water tank on the Museum roof “so I could get copepods on tap”.
What drew young Geoff to Leeds in the first place?
Leeds was not the obvious choice.
It was initially ruled out as being too far away.
“I drew a 200-mile radius and Leeds was 201 miles from where we lived”.
But he was interested in marine biology, and the allure of the University’s marine lab at Robin Hood’s Bay made it worth going that extra mile.
Back in the 1960s the Zoology department was in the Baines Wing, designed by that doyen of the Victorian Gothic Revival, Alfred Waterhouse – the same architect behind the Natural History Museum.
“I’ve spent my entire career in Waterhouse buildings,” says Geoff.
He rubbed shoulders with some of the legendary figures of biology.
Robert McNeill Alexander joined the department in 1969.
He was renowned for his expertise on how animals moved.
Although laden with academic awards, his favourite was rumoured to be that conferred by The Mail on Sunday which listed him as one of “Britain's Nuttiest Professors — Ten Sages Who Really Know Their Onions”.
Geoff’s time at Leeds coincided with the reign of the formidable Manton sisters.
Irene Manton, pioneer of electron microscopy of plant cells, was Professor of Botany.
When Geoff moved to the NHM he found that he was in the office next door to her sister Sidnie.
The University of Leeds in the 1960s was a hive of activity.
“In 1968 when I started, Jack Straw (who became Cabinet Minister in the Blair and Brown Labour governments) was the president of the Students Union and led sit-ins in the admin block.
They were exciting times.”
Not that Geoff took much notice – at least, not to start with.
He was too busy studying, as he thought “everyone was going to be a lot cleverer than I was”.
It was only when he got a prize for academic distinction at the end of his first year that he realised that everyone else was having fun.
At one stage he shared a house with a bunch of language students and came back after a lab session to find them “sitting around describing the colour patterns on the ceiling.
They’d had LSD in their beef stew at lunchtime, and they were all tripping.
It took me a disgustingly long time to work out what was going on.”
Friends pulled Geoff out of his shell.
He played rugby, joined the Rock Climbing Society and enjoyed the music scene.
When The Who recorded their legendary live album Live at Leeds in the Refectory on 14 February 1970, Geoff was there.
Perhaps you can hear him in the crowd.
A flatmate he’d known from schooldays dragged him along to university drama clubs.
He saw a lot of student theatre.
He was also interested in folk music.
The same flatmate said he simply had to come and see “this fantastic girl singer.
So I did, and eventually married her”.
To cap it all, “I finished my undergraduate years with a profit of £21 from my student grant.
Think how different it is nowadays.”
© Henry Gee.
About the writer: Henry Gee (Genetics and Zoology 1984) is an author and a Senior Editor of Nature magazine.
His latest book is ‘A (Very) Short History of Life on Earth’.
Do you have a story to share?
We welcome updates from our alumni, no matter how long ago you were here.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news-alumni/news/article/5042/changing-the-story:
PR and Marketing Communications expert Annalise Coady has launched and transformed brands all around the world.
This means she understands the importance of diversity in the workplace.
“I remember early in my career one challenge was explaining the benefits of texting when people didn’t know there was a need,” Annalise (Materials Science and Engineering 1992) says.
“It’s a constantly changing world, and that means every day is a challenge in PR, but that’s when you produce your best work.”
For Annalise, that work has seen her support the launch of mobile phones, the internet, search engines, smart phones, and more recently, COVID-19 vaccines.
As one of the most recognised faces in the industry – Annalise was named one of the world’s most influential PR professionals in PRWeek’s Global Power Book, and a “Champion of PR” in PRWeek’s Hall of Femme – she has had a front row seat in a world of technological and healthcare change.
It has also seen her become a key figure in conversations around diversity.
Annalise is now Group President, International, at Real Chemistry, a health innovation business providing marketing and communications for healthcare companies.
Inclusivity is an area of focus with both her clients and her own staff.
“Equality and diversity can't be a tick box,” says Annalise.
“You have to have these challenging conversations, and you have to keep having them.”
When she moved to Leeds to study engineering, Annalise was headed on a different trajectory.
She followed her father into the career, only to find it wasn’t for her.
“I loved my time at Leeds.
From the start I was attracted by the energy of the place, and that carried on during my time there.
I remember socialising in the Bricklayers Arms and the union; I met some really great people who are still my friends today.
“But I knew by my final year that I needed a change.
I enjoyed the group work, but didn’t like being the sole contributor at a bench.”
Moving into tech PR proved the perfect fit, allowing her to use her scientific knowledge in a different way.
“My Leeds degree got me my first job for a magazine called Advanced Materials .
That background really helped give me an edge, it gave me a huge amount of confidence to ask the right questions and break down complex ideas.
From there I was able to move to agencies or in-house positions, initially in technology.”
It also proved useful in a male-dominated tech industry.
The demographic was nothing new, having graduated from a course with very few women on it.
“I remember at a university open day, one parent asked me ‘what's nice girl like you wanting to do engineering for?’.
Then in my career, there was a presumption that as I woman I didn’t understand the technicalities.
But I did.
I have an engineering degree.”
Annalise uses her position to help level the playing field for women and minority groups.
She has responsibility for business outside of the US, a key part of which is a focus on diversity, equity and inclusion.
“One of the things that we've really been looking at is making sure people can see where they might go in the future.
I want us to have a management team, whether it's male or female, that is reflective of the people that are in our company.
“We're in a position of power to do something, so we’ve got the opportunity to change the environment in which we work.”
Annalise is also central to diversity, equity and inclusive initiatives for Real Chemistry employees in Europe such as Business Resource Groups and Lean in Circles, which provide support networks for those in similar situations – including circles for those caring for elderly relatives, menopausal women, and those who have actively chosen not to have a family.
As a professional, Annalise has transformed businesses all around the globe and helped bring in a new digital age.
But it is this recent work, alongside launching healthcare campaigns, which she is most proud of.
“We’ve grown drastically, and I’m proud of where we’ve come to.
“We were a key part of Pfizer’s vaccine confidence project, and campaigns to address areas such as vaccine hesitancy and acceptance.” Annalise chaired key panel discussions – such as one on Repairing the Damage Done by Fake News in Vaccine Confidence – and has supported the World Health Organisation in its vaccination rollout communications.
It is long way from where an 18-year-old Annalise might have imagined her career might end up when she arrived in Leeds.
So if she had the chance to do it again, would she choose a more conventional route?
“I would tell myself that no mistake is a mistake as long as you learn from it.
You don't have to take the straight path from A to B – be flexible, and take every opportunity.”
For more information, contact Ed Newbould, Digital Communications Officer at the University of Leeds, by email on e.w.newbould@leeds.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news-alumni/news/article/5038/former-tv-journalist-delves-into-the-past:
When his home made the shortlist for the BBC’s A House Through Time, former ITV journalist Peter Cullimore was inspired to explore the untold stories of its former occupants for himself.
Drawing on a writing career which began as a student journalist at Leeds, and following the success of his first book, Peter (French and Spanish 1976) has now published a sequel which delves into the remarkable stories of doctors in Georgian Bristol – whose experience of a pandemic draws many parallels with our own.
“Leeds started it for me,” he says.
“I wrote for the student newspaper, Leeds Student.
I remember doing a double page spread about the City Varieties – I’d always had that interest in history.
I had a wonderful time, and some of my best memories are of the student community in Hyde Park.
“I was attracted to Leeds partly because The Who had famously just recorded their Live at Leeds album there, and it was a great choice.
I had a wonderful time, and some of my best memories are of the student community in Hyde Park, going to the Hyde Park Picture House, socialising at the Royal Park – which was still there when I visited in 2019 – and of course, working on the newspaper.
“The newspaper connected me with like-minded individuals, and more or less helped me decide on my career in journalism.”
On leaving Leeds, Peter found work on a local newspaper in Cheltenham, before progressing to the Sheffield Telegraph and BBC Radio 4 programmes including World at One and the Today programme.
“Although there were memorable moments including interviews with the likes of Elton John and Cliff Richard, the highlight of my career was covering the health service in Wales for ITV for around 12 years,” he says.
“I’d have been covering the COVID-19 pandemic now.”
Peter was unfortunately forced to retire early due to ill-health.
“I loved my job.
I wouldn’t have done anything else and I’d encourage anyone to give it a go if you’re willing to work hard.
Journalism is more important now than it ever has been in the post-truth age – you need journalists to hold people to account and tell the truth as it really is.”
His journalism career, which spanned five decades, meant that the investigative work was nothing new when it came to starting his books.
Co-written by Peter and his wife Sue, and published by Bristol Books during UK lockdown restrictions, the book began after contact from the BBC’s A House Through Time – a programme which tells the stories of individual houses and the people who lived in them from the time they were built until now.
“They shortlisted our house to the final three or four for the Bristol series,” Peter says, “but when they chose a different house to feature, we decided to follow the leads.”
The programme researchers provided Peter and his wife with the initial findings, and they were able to investigate further.
“In the first book, Saints, Crooks and Slavers, those stories include a shady French aristocrat whose parents were guillotined in the revolution, a Quaker philanthropist who twice married into slave-owning families, and the Phippen sisters who ran schools for destitute girls.
Its sequel, Pills, Shocks and Jabs, delves deeper into the stories of the dissenting doctors of Georgian Bristol.
“These religious dissenters were inspired by a shared moral code, the desire to help the sick and needy and a lively interest in new scientific ideas.
“They were trying to find a jab to work against smallpox, and helped pave the way for Edward Jenner to create the smallpox vaccine.
There were parallels with the modern day pandemic, and I speculate what the characters would be doing during pandemic if they were alive now.
“The presenter David Olusoga signed a copy of the first book, and in it he wrote, ‘We should have done yours’,” Peter laughs.
“But I’m glad we’ve been able to share the fascinating stories either way.”
Alumni can purchase a copy of Saints, Crooks and Slavers and Pills, Shocks and Jabs for £12 each at Bristol Books.
Series four of A House Through Time featured a home in Leeds, which at one time was home to several University of Leeds students – some of whom returned for an episode.
David Olusoga, who received an honorary degree from Leeds in 2018, also filmed some sequences in our Brotherton Library.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news-alumni/news/article/5027/ryan-finds-a-winning-balance:
An education programme to help students to spend less time on screen – and more time living their lives – has won a coveted innovation award for Leeds alum Ryan Bell (Geography 2018).
“Soon after the pandemic started, I realised that all the time that I’d usually spend socialising, in the gym or playing football had been replaced by competitive gaming and social media,” says Ryan Bell (Geography 2018).
“The demands of this lifestyle quickly took a huge toll on my wellbeing.
Its impacts included stress, low self-esteem, lack of empathy, and loss of focus and attention –all of which had knock-on effects for my work and personal life.
I realised something had to change.”
Ryan’s search for a solution led him to develop Tech Balance, to help himself and others to balance the time they spend online with ‘real life’ activity.
“It was really challenging to find viable sustainable solutions amongst the vague tips and trips and countless apps out there,” he says.
“There wasn’t any one solution that describes the context of the crisis that we are facing or provided a program to make it easy for people to change their unwanted tech behaviours.”
Tech Balance addresses that by offering a curriculum and certification program that brings people together to make changing their unwanted behaviours simple, fun and achievable.
Through a series of workshops, designed and run by students, it helps them find their own tech-life balance.
Its success led to Ryan winning a £5,000 award from Innovate UK’s Young Innovators programme, which gives inspiring young entrepreneurs the chance to take their business idea to the next level.
Innovate UK provides a living allowance, a grant and tailored business support to help innovators turn their business ideas into a reality.
It has allowed Ryan to split his time between his job with Luton-based space technology consultancy Telespazio UK and developing Tech Balance still further.
“Over the next year, I’m looking to work with early adopters including students and parents, as well as schools, colleges, and universities,” he says.
“I’m keen to deliver and receive feedback on a prototype of the Tech Balance course and community that I’m building, so it’s designed to really help students improve their relationship with technology.
“I feel really grateful and for this opportunity.
It’s great to know that Innovate UK has confidence in me to take Tech Balance to the next level.”

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni/news/article/5028/brian-kokoruwe-against-all-odds:
A life-changing meningitis infection didn't stop Brian Kokoruwe (MA Education 2014) pursuing his dreams of sporting success.
At the age of 13, the disease left him unable to walk and with profound hearing loss.
With a determination to realise his dream of becoming an athlete, he moved from Nigeria to London to receive treatment.
Now, he’s about to release the third instalment of his autobiography.
Brian tells us about his achievements for Team GB on the track and beyond, the barriers he’s faced as a deaf person in the UK, and the role he now plays as an advocate for the community.
I was born in London, but my parents felt it was more appropriate when I was three months old to put me on a plane alone to travel to Nigeria under the watchful eyes of the cabin crew.
I was raised by my grandparents in a small village until after the civil war when my parents returned to Nigeria.
Village life was simple, uncomplicated and fun – things were very traditional, with no electricity or running water indoors.
That’s right.
While at boarding school, I was infected with meningitis which left me temporarily unable to walk and resulted in profound hearing loss.
I was devastated.
My father tried all he could to find treatment, at first in Nigeria, then eventually in London.
I lost hope.
Before my diagnosis, I dreamed of a career in sport, and I wondered if there was any point continuing with life.
But my parents had faith in my ability, encouraged me to take things one day at a time and to do my best.
Through determination, physiotherapy and above all my faith in God, I regained the ability to walk, then run.
Before I became deaf, I’d never met a deaf person or seen anyone using sign language.
My family didn’t have any knowledge of deafness or sign language either, so at home I spoke and used lip reading.
When I was placed in a partial hearing unit at school, sign language wasn’t allowed, so after school when I was introduced to a deaf club, I was shocked to see deaf people signing.
I thought learning to sign would be really hard so I didn’t learn until after my first degree.
Now, with my deaf friends, I sign in whichever sign language they prefer – I can now use British Sign Language, Sign Supported English and International Sign Language too.
I struggled to find people to look up to because of a lack of Deaf Role Models.
I had no clear educational and career pathway.
It was not helpful that educational bodies and employers did not have much deaf awareness either, so I was constantly facing barrier after barrier.
Despite having the necessary qualifications for universities, I was rejected by three out of four.
Then, after successfully achieving my first degree, employers did not want to offer me graduate level jobs, but basic school leaver roles instead.
I tried and tried and finally got employment opportunities in fashion and legal areas, then in the City working at different banks.
I captained my school athletics team, and although I did well against hearing competitors, I lost vital seconds at the start of a race from not being able to hear the starting pistol.
After finding a poster for a GB deaf athletics training weekend, I went along.
I went on to win a couple of regional and national competitions and was picked to represent GB in both the 200m and 400m at the European Deaf Athletics Championships and at the Deaflympics.
I narrowly missed out on a medal but I was pleased to assist the GB team to a bronze medal at the 400 metre relay at the Deaflympics.
I wanted to give opportunities to deaf athletes that I didn’t get when I was training and competing.
My biggest disadvantage in those days was that I didn’t have a professional deaf advisor in the areas of sports development.
I became a qualified fitness instructor as well as a sprint coach, so I could offer top quality advice to deaf athletes using sign language.
I was really excited to see my athletes winning medals and giving their best professionally.
After retiring from athletics, I set up an organisation, Deaf UK Athletics, to nurture and develop deaf athletes to represent GB.
Some of these athletes went on to win European championships and Deaflympics medals and also achieved deaf athletics world records.
I was also picked to be the Assistant Technical Director for Athletics and Cross Country in the European Deaf Sports Organisation.
I worked as a sensory and physical disabilities team leader at a college at the time, and I knew Leeds had an excellent reputation for deaf education and developing high calibre teachers of the deaf.
I wanted to join for my own development.
I had stayed at Leeds a couple of times for social events as well as for nearby athletics competitions and loved the city, so I enrolled.
My course covered issues ranging from diagnosing childhood hearing loss, methods of educating deaf children, and technologies utilised in the classroom by deaf students and their teachers.
Due to the discriminatory practices that I’ve experienced, I set up Deafinitequality to offer advice and training relating to equality for deaf people.
I also volunteer my time for the National Deaf Children Society as a Deaf Role Model where I share my life experiences with parents of newly deaf children, to give them encouragement and hope for their deaf child.
Having had lived experience of the hearing world and now being deaf, I am ideally suited to deliver deaf awareness training to organisations across the country.
Additionally, I travel around the country giving keynote speeches to a wide range of organisations and at different functions.
I thought it would be a good idea to share my life journey in the hope that it might encourage others to follow their dreams.
From that came two books and now the third one is almost ready to be released.
Book one, When Mother Cried, covers my account from birth through to when my parents had to put me alone in a plane under the watchful eyes of the cabin crews to travel from London to Lagos, Nigeria at only three months old.
It explains about growing up with my grandparents and how I rejected my mother on her return to Nigeria.
Book two, My Father Tried, is the follow up to When Mother Cried and explains how my life changed following my meningitis infection.
My father explored all available avenues to try to reverse my situation and brought me back to the country of my birth.
Watch for book three to be released in March.
My books are available from the Brian Kokoruwe website .
For further details, email Ed Newbould, Digital Communications Officer, University of Leeds at e.w.newbould@leeds.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news-alumni/news/article/5019/namrah-shahid-changing-the-story-with-hijabi-runners:
By forming Hijabi Runners, one Leeds alumna has helped other South Asian and Muslim women realise that running could be for them, too.
When Namrah Shahid (Chemistry 2016, MSc 2017, PhD 2021) was persuaded to run at Woodhouse Moor parkrun in 2016, she noticed something.
“It is a fantastic, friendly and welcoming community,” she says.
“But nobody else looked like me.”
All around the world, participants walk, jog, or run the free 5km events every Saturday morning.
Despite her observation, Namrah was determined to return the next week to beat her time.
Little did she know, but her perseverance was the first step towards forming Hijabi Runners, and helping other South Asian and Muslim women realise that running could be for them, too.
“Growing up, I used to cycle a lot, but as I got older, people in my community would say it wasn’t a mature thing to do.
I should stop.
I remember wondering why.
It didn’t make sense to me.
And when I started running, again, people thought it was an odd thing for a hijabi to do – it just wasn’t normal.
But the more you do something, the more you normalise it.”
And so Namrah kept running.
Motivated by the sense of achievement at parkrun, she signed up to the Abbey Dash, a 10km race from Leeds city centre to Kirkstall Abbey.
She soon had the running bug: “A year after I did my first parkrun, I built up to do the Leeds Half Marathon in 2017.”
“I loved it.
Running has so many health benefits, and during my PhD, it was an outlet.
It was something to have for myself, and collecting medals gave me a sense of achievement.”
As she found at parkrun, Namrah was one of the few visibly Muslim women in attendance at races.
Nevertheless, she shared her running experiences on social media, and received encouragement from hijabi friends.
“They wrote about how they wished they could do it too, and I realised there were so many out there who wanted to run, but didn’t know where to start.”
Parkrun wasn’t the answer, given Namrah’s own experience – it was only her determination that saw her return the next week.
“It feels too much like a race, and it is intimidating.”
“There was a gap, and something needed to be done about it.”
If one person turned up, then I’d have been happy.
I’d have helped one person get into running.
Namrah pitched the idea of Hijabi Runners at the Leeds Muslim Youth Forum in 2019.
“It was simple: meet up and run together.
They loved it.”
“They would create a community of Muslim and ethnic minority runners who could run in a comfortable all-female environment.
The forum covered the cost of Namrah’s certification to start a run club, a Facebook group and logo were created, and a date and time were set.
“If one person turned up, then I’d have been happy.
I’d have helped one person get into running.”
In fact, in the first week, four women took part.
The following week, all four returned, plus some additions.
“We have 20-25 regulars now, with six or seven turning up each week.
We have a wide range of ages, and nearly all haven’t run before.”
“We still get the odd funny look, but we’re helping to dispel the perception that South Asian and Muslim women can’t run.”
The running club are active on social media , posting pictures most weeks.
Encouraging followers and offering tips – such as the most comfortable sports hijabs – is part of the process.
“The first hijab I wore at parkrun was terrible.
It was cotton and the pin kept slipping.
The sports ones I wear now are better.” It is just one of the obstacles Namrah has proven can be overcome.
The next challenge Namrah has set herself is to reach communities further afield: “It’d be great to expand the running club beyond the Leeds group, to see Hijabi Runners in other cities.
On the other hand, if this is as far as it goes, I’m so proud of what we’ve done and how far the girls have come.”
It is not the first time Namrah recognised a need for change, and decided to act.
She spent eight years as a student at Leeds, and – alongside a PhD into molecular electronics and an aside project developing an anti-cancer drug – used her spare time to improve student life.
Success on various campaigns, such as an award winning initiative to improve lab safety, and the opening of a prayer space in the Laidlaw Library, gave her confidence that change was possible.
“I campaigned for women-only gym sessions at the Edge.
I took it to the Better Union LUU forum, debated it with students.
There was pushback there, and it took six months, but we got a slot eventually.”
This principle, that women of all backgrounds and faiths should have the opportunity to exercise, is one that Namrah took forward with the running club.
Namrah recently moved away from Leeds, but she is keeping an eye on things from afar.
Although she can’t attend Hijabi Runners sessions as much as she’d like, she still returns every three weeks to support the club.
And of course, she continues to run in her new city.
“It’s why I like running,” she says.
“You just get out there and go.”
For more information, contact Ed Newbould, Digital Communications Officer at the University of Leeds, by email on e.w.newbould@leeds.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news-alumni/news/article/5017/olivia-cotes-james-talking-taboos:
Named in the Forbes 30 under 30 Asia list, founder of LUÜNA Naturals Olivia Cotes-James (English Literature 2013) is improving lives across a continent.
When Olivia Cotes-James graduated from Leeds in 2013, she never imagined founding a female-led period care company in Asia.
Being named in the Forbes 30 under 30 list by April 2021 was an even more distant reality.
But things look quite different today.
After realising how a lack of knowledge around menstruation was affecting lives, Olivia founded LUÜNA Naturals, specialising in sustainable period products.
And access to a healthier, chemical-free brand wasn’t enough.
“There was a need for education and transparency around a taboo subject, too,” Olivia explains from her offices in Hong Kong.
“And that’s something we set out to address.”
Olivia moved to Hong Kong after her graduation with a desire to connect with the place where her mother grew up.
Following a trip back to the UK in 2015, Olivia arrived at the check-in desk with a suitcase over the weight limit.
“It’s hard to access tampons in Hong Kong, so you stock up and bring a full suitcase back with you.
I had to unpack that suitcase in front of a long queue of people, and it made me question two things.
Firstly, why am I having to bring a basic menstrual health product back to a city like Hong Kong?
And secondly, why am I so mortified that people have seen that I use tampons?”
It was puzzling to me how few seats at the table women have when it comes to products that are made for our own bodies.
Olivia Cotes-James (English Literature, 2013)
In Hong Kong, Olivia searched for answers, running informal workshops with women from a range of communities and backgrounds.
She discovered a universal apprehension, stigma and a lack of knowledge around menstrual health.
In parts of Asia, the situation was further complicated by cultural barriers and misconceptions about tampons as a product.
Her research also led her to look at the products on the shelves.
“The best-selling pads and tampons are made of conventional cotton, which is grown with carcinogenic pesticides and fertilizers and synthetics that not only are really harmful to our environment, but actually are increasingly linked to long-term hormonal health issues.”
Olivia switched to using natural products, and discovered an immediate improvement in her own health.
“The symptoms and health problems I’d blamed on my body for the last ten years were caused by the products I was using.”
And that’s when she decided something needed to change.
It wasn’t the first time Olivia has tackled a taboo subject.
Whilst studying at Leeds, Olivia saw her future in writing, and the University went on to fund the production of one of her plays.
“It was a satirical comedy called Dysfunktional about sexuality and class,” Olivia says.
“I enjoyed developing a platform to talk about taboo topics, and it's great that I can do that now in business.”
But bringing a taboo topic to investors meant a tougher audience than those watching at Leeds.
“I never shy away from an awkward pitch.
Those challenges are what excites me more than anything.
The real challenge was getting a meeting in the first place.”
And after achieving that, Olivia launched LUÜNA Naturals in 2019.
Two years down the line, it is the investors reaching out to them – some achievement for someone who describes themself as an “accidental entrepreneur”.
Founding a female-led organisation was important to Olivia, having entered an industry where so few female leaders play a part.
“More women need to have a seat at the table, whatever the industry.
But it was puzzling to me how few seats at the table women have when it comes to products that are made for our own bodies.”
Olivia’s first step was to create the product itself, using healthy materials that keep bodies safe without coming at the cost of the planet.
A programme of workshops and education was designed in parallel, and Olivia collaborates with organizations, schools, and corporations to implement policies that support menstrual health and tackle stigma.
The third step was a focus upon social impact: a portion of every sale funds the donation of products and education for vulnerable local communities.
As a result, LUÜNA contributes to four of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals: health and wellbeing, climate action, no poverty and conscious consumption.
The ultimate question: are things changing?
“Attitudes have shifted dramatically since we started out, thanks to our work and global momentum, too.
It definitely wasn't easy last year with COVID-19, but things are looking up again now.”
Perhaps a signal of just how far things have come is Olivia’s recent Forbes 30 under 30 accolade.
Olivia said: “I think any accolade like that is exciting.
It gives a platform to the brand, our team and the notion of talking about periods and healthy period products.
I have to remind myself not to be awkward and British about it!”
Not that awkwardness has stopped Olivia’s ambitions.
She plans to expand LUÜNA’s role to encompass hormonal health more broadly, which means further product development and online resources, both in English and Chinese.
“We want to roll out these impactful initiatives on a wider scale to alleviate period poverty, reduce plastic waste, and ensure better health and wellbeing for all.”
Discover more about LUÜNA Naturals .
Olivia took the time to support budding entrepreneurs from Leeds at recent careers event in Shanghai.
Find out more about volunteering to support Leeds students .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni/news/article/5016/jonathan-wild-a-million-tree-promise:
Jonathan Wild (Hon LLD 2011), the former Chair and Managing Director of Bettys and Taylors of Harrogate, is dedicated to his mission to protect the planet.
“If you plant one tree, I’ll find a way to plant the other 999,999,” Jonathan told his children.
They’d just watched an upsetting Blue Peter feature about the destruction of the rainforest.
Over 30 years and five million trees later, the former Chair and Managing Director of Bettys and Taylors of Harrogate is just as dedicated to his mission to protect the planet.
More so than ever, in fact.
Since his retirement in 2011, Jonathan founded and became a trustee of the United Bank of Carbon (UBoC), a registered environmental charity protecting, planting and restoring trees.
It allows him to work with Leeds researchers – most of UBoC’s affiliated scientists are based at the University – to make a difference.
“It was an emotional response 30 years ago, but I wasn’t digging into the detail.
Now I have time to work with the experts and really change things.”
Bettys and Taylors of Harrogate is a brand synonymous with conservation efforts, an image born from Jonathan’s promise.
As the owner of the family business, Jonathan launched the Trees for Life initiative on packs of Yorkshire Tea and Taylors coffee; buyers collected tokens and the business underwrote the cost of planting.
“Back then it wasn’t a hot topic,” Jonathan says.
“But I decided that if we just keep going, people would start to understand the importance of tree planting.”
He was right to persist.
The 2021 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report, which emphasised the need for immediate, rapid and large-scale reductions in emissions, highlighted how the natural system helps to remove a good fraction of our emissions each year – with trees being the biggest contributor.
As Professor Piers Forster, Director of the Priestley International Centre for Climate Change at Leeds, and a trustee at UBoC stated: “Early action to limit emissions will play a key role in ensuring that net-zero targets work, but this is in large part thanks to our trees: we need to look after them more than ever.”
There is most potential in doing things together.
Partnerships are hard, but I think that’s what the future requires.
Jonathan planted the millionth tree opposite the first in Harrogate, ten years after his initial pledge.
The legacy remains, as the business continues to plant and protect trees worldwide today – they twice received the Queen's Award for Enterprise for Sustainable Development, and Jonathan’s business and conservation accomplishments were recognised with an honorary degree from Leeds in 2011.
On retirement, Jonathan had more time to give, but he felt he was missing scientific input.
It was pure chance that he met the ideal candidate to help.
“I met Piers Forster on a tennis court, and we got talking.
I knew Leeds were doing great work in climate action, and he was a big part of that.”
UBoC followed, where a shared passion for trees, the scientists’ expertise, and Jonathan’s business instinct proved a powerful combination.
“In the business world I was used to bringing people together,” Jonathan says.
“But I found the academics were working in silos, and it confused me – trees are a universal subject.”
One of UBoC’s key activities is to get people talking – be it conversations between researchers, or with external organisations.
The Leeds Ecosystem, Atmosphere and Forest (LEAF) centre was created, bringing together forest-related research activities across campus, and the Priestley Centre followed.
“Every subject informs climate change.
We had the English department join us, for example, because the way you talk about the environment has an impact.
“There is most potential in doing things together.
Partnerships are hard, but I think that’s what the future requires.”
UBoC also provide seed funding for projects, support PhD students and research activity, and use the findings to inform their own projects in forests and woodlands.
Jonathan describes the process as a learning curve.
Although initially there was a global outlook to the work – and there still is, with PhD research in Africa and South-East Asia – local projects have started to take centre stage.
“We want to have impact and fill gaps in knowledge.
That’s the most important thing.
The Yorkshire Dales National Park is one of the least forested parks in the UK, for example, so we have work to do here.”
That work includes the Wild Ingleborough project.
By bringing together various organisations, the team are restoring peatlands and native woodland around Ingleborough which will remove and store carbon.
The lessons learned will inform the design of future policy to sustain rural communities – and volunteers are needed for a wide variety of tasks, ranging from tree planting to butterfly surveying.
Already, similar projects such as Restoring Hardknott Forest are providing a model for regeneration, increasing wildlife diversity and natural woodland.
“There is always more to do,” Jonathan adds.
“In education in particular, I’d like us to build momentum.
But I’m proud of the leadership we’ve shown to bring groups together, and that’s down to the people in UBoC driving for change.
Our team are so passionate about what they do.
“If they have that passion, they’re the ones making a difference, and I back them.”
You can make a difference too by volunteering for the Wild Ingleborough project this autumn and winter.
Read the latest blog post from environmental scientist Dr Cat Scott , a UBoC team member from the LEAF Centre, as she examines the challenges being faced by forests around the world and what we need to do in the UK to maximise the benefits of new woodland creation.
For further details, email Ed Newbould, Communications Officer, University of Leeds at e.w.newbould@leeds.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news-alumni/news/article/5018/cec-thompson-the-most-remarkable-of-graduates:
Cec Thompson's (Economics, 1968, Hon MA, 1994) remarkable rise on the rugby field is matched only by his achievements off it, as he pushed himself from illiteracy to graduation.
When Leeds alumnus Cec Thompson stepped onto a rugby field at the age of 22, he didn’t know the rules of the game.
He had been asked to play in a workplace rugby tournament in Bramley, a break from the monotony of his role at the Yorkshire Copper Works.
Just three years later, he became just the second black rugby league player ever to be capped by Great Britain.
This remarkable rise on the field is matched only by his achievements off it, as he pushed himself from illiteracy to graduation.
With an imposing height of over six foot and weighing 14 stone, Cec credited his early success in the sport to the fitness and strength he’d built while working as a labourer.
Impressed by his power and energy, it took only two games before he was scouted by Hunslet to play professionally.
He never saw himself as a natural talent, but he had the tools he needed to succeed.
Before that moment, Cec’s life held no such advantages.
Born in 1926, Cec’s Trinidadian father died before his birth.
His mother, a miner’s daughter from County Durham, was unable to support her four children, and Cec spent an unhappy childhood moving from orphanage to orphanage.
He was the victim of racist abuse and bullying, and left school at 14, shy, and unable to read or write.
As Cec described in his autobiography, he was “desensitised and utterly unemployable”.
Factory work in Leeds provided no respite, as Cec was targeted for the colour of his skin.
He joined the navy for the last years of the war, but returning home afterwards, felt more alienated than ever.
People wouldn't sit next to Cec in the cinema, or on the bus.
As Cec wrote: “In those days there were very few black people away from the sea ports.
Leeds is about as far from the sea as you can get and I felt as if I had walked out of a freak show.”
Rugby proved his lifeline.
On signing for Hunslet, he found companionship and purpose alongside his team-mates – his "siblings" – and he was called up for his first international against New Zealand in 1951.
A breakthrough moment for representation in the sport, perhaps, but the newspaper headlines still remarked upon the colour of Cec’s skin, a reminder of the challenges he faced each day.
His second test was the first televised international rugby league game, broadcasting his name further afield.
Cec was signed by Workington, and he spent the next seven years at the Cumbrian club, playing in a Challenge Cup final at Wembley and a Championship final at Odsal.
Even so, the strife of his childhood cast a shadow over Cec.
He dreaded the moment autograph hunters stopped him and he struggled to sign his name.
He sat on the bus to away games, learning as many new words as he could from Reader’s Digest, knowing that his rugby career wouldn’t last forever.
Cec ran a window cleaning business to supplement his salary, with the local school a regular client.
He looked through the glass as he cleaned, a constant reminder of all he had missed, and he wondered what it would be like to work on the other side.
When a recurring knee injury forced him to retire in 1961, with 294 games and 64 tries to his name, Cec decided to fill the gaps in his education.
Funded by his day job, he embarked upon the challenge with the same enthusiasm he took to the rugby field.
He enrolled in night school to complete his O-Levels.
He joined music and operatic societies, an art club, and once he was ready, advanced to Huddersfield Technical College.
In 1965, aged 39, Cec returned to Leeds to study economics at the University.
His perspective of academia, and of Leeds itself, was far different to the vilified factory worker from all those years earlier.
He worked hard on his studies, but didn’t forget the sport that had helped to open the door.
Whilst at Leeds, he formed the first student rugby league club, becoming the club coach and President, and co-founded the Student Rugby League.
Cec considered his academic success his finest accomplishment.
On graduating from Leeds in 1968, he completed a diploma in education, and began teaching economics in South Yorkshire, progressing to become Head of Economics at Chesterfield Grammar School.
He remained in the role for 17 years – and of course, took charge of rugby at the school.
All the while, he developed the cleaning business that funded his path into education, and his successful enterprise grew to employ over 600 staff.
Cec passed away in 2011 at the age of 85, but not before his achievements were recognised.
In 1994, Cec was awarded an honorary degree by the University.
An annual rugby prize – the Cec Thompson University Player of the Year Award – is given in his honour.
On the tenth anniversary of his death, Cec’s perseverance to overcome the formidable barriers placed before him will continue to inspire on the rugby field, in the classroom, and in society for years to come.
For more information, contact Ed Newbould, Digital Communications Officer at the University of Leeds, by email on at e.w.newbould@leeds.ac.uk .
Make sure to explore the full schedule of celebrations and acknowledgement taking place at the University this Black History Month.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news-alumni/news/article/5020/olivia-strong-a-7-million-idea:
A challenge between friends went on to raise over £7 million for NHS Charities Together during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Olivia Strong MBE (Politics and Sociology 2015) has been a runner all her life.
But in March 2020, as lockdown hit the UK, her usual loop led her on an altogether different path.
Halfway around her daily run, Olivia noticed how many more people were out doing the same thing.
An idea was born: Run 5K, donate £5, and nominate five others to do the same.
And what began as a challenge between friends went on to raise over £7 million for NHS Charities Together during the COVID-19 pandemic.
In this edition of our My Leeds Story podcast , Ed speaks to the founder of Run For Heroes about the tale behind the record-breaking campaign, her time at Leeds – including jogging around Hyde Park, and trips to the Yorkshire Dales – and her latest fundraising initiative: 5K May.
“At every point of crisis, I've done something to try and raise money,” Olivia says.
“When I was eight, the Boxing Day tsunami happened.
I went around all the local shops in Edinburgh and I got them to donate stuff, then I did a tombola at the end of my street.”
“It raised about £2,500 and it was used to rebuild one of the harbours.”
The success of the Run For Heroes campaign did not come about by chance.
The timing, just as the nation looked to help in any way they could, along with Olivia’s desire to make a difference, helped initiate a campaign that broke Virgin Money Giving records for the total raised on an individual page, with over 1.5 million participants getting involved across the globe.
She never imagined it would go so far: “If you had said to me at the start that you're going to raise £7 million for this idea, I'd have said ‘you’re mad’.”
Much of Olivia’s time outside of studies at Leeds was spent co-ordinating Leeds RAG Fashion Show, which would raise over £15,000.
But it was also a time when she began to discover the benefits of running for both mental and physical wellbeing: “I’d done sprinting when I was younger, and in Leeds I started to run regularly around Hyde Park to clear my head.
Running has helped me to sort out so many decisions in my life.”
So when COVID-19 restrictions meant Olivia’s work as a freelance documentary producer in London all but disappeared, she knew how to keep on top of things.
She moved back home to Edinburgh to take stock, and she went for a run.
“I was freaking out, because I didn’t know how I was going to afford rent in London.
And that’s when I saw how many people were running.
“I was looking for ways I could help.
I called up my mum, and was like, ‘I've got this idea.’” The rest, as they say, is history.
Olivia is quick to point out that although she came up with the idea, the growth of the challenge was not down to her alone.
Her friend India Pappalardo-Strachan (Co-Founder and now a Trustee) helped to brand the campaign.
Alice Roberta Taylor (also a Trustee) took care of writing press releases and spreading the word.
The desire of the nation to do their bit during crisis was crucial.
Celebrity endorsement went a long way, too: “When Mo Farah got involved, that was amazing.
And then Ellie Goulding did it, and she's got 14 million followers on Instagram.
It made such a difference.”
All the money raised was donated to the NHS Charities Together COVID-19 appeal, supporting the welfare and wellbeing of health workers during the pandemic.
There followed a second campaign: Faster 5k Fridays, which raised over £35,000 for The Care Workers Charity.
The crowning moment arrived in the form of a confidential email from Buckingham Palace in August 2020.
“It said I was to be awarded an MBE for my services to fundraising during COVID-19.
I honestly thought it was one of my friends playing stitch up.
I nearly fell off my chair when I opened the attachment.
“It was so special to be given this honour,” Olivia adds.
“But the MBE is not for me – it’s a Run for Heroes MBE for our whole community.”
There followed the ultimate question: how to follow a viral success like Run For Heroes?
“We sat down one night and talked it through to the early hours.
We knew we had an engaged community of amateur runners, and we knew there was more good to come from it.”
The natural progression was for Run For Heroes to become a registered charity, with the goal now being to encourage people to be active while raising vital funds for health and wellbeing.
“We decided to ‘own’ the month of May.
People run a 5K every May and donate £5 to any charity, and once you've done that, you earn a goody bag of rewards and incentives.
If we raise any amount, we’ll be happy.
If you go in with these kinds of small goals, you can be surprised by where you get to.”
Olivia and the Run For Heroes team know that better than anyone.
Participants can sign up, take part and donate to the 5K May challenge by visiting the Run For Heroes website .
Listen to more podcasts from the Advancement team at the University of Leeds by subscribing to the My Leeds podcast .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news-alumni/news/article/5021/lucy-clayton-how-to-go-to-work:
Lucy Clayton (English Literature, 2003) draws on years of experience and insight from her latest book to answer student and graduate career questions.
How do you negotiate a pay rise?
Deal with imposter syndrome?
Start a career in times like these?
“I've worked with young people throughout my career who were worried about the same things,” says Lucy Clayton, co-author of How to Go to Work: The Honest Advice No One Ever Tells You at the Start of Your Career.
“So we decided to write it all down.”
In our latest My Leeds podcast episode , Lucy draws on years of experience and insight from her latest book to answer your questions.
We also hear from Lucy’s mentee, theatre and performance student Hannah Rooney, as they discuss their mentoring relationship, and the importance of mentoring to them.
From a graduate role in advertising, to CEO of social enterprise Community Clothing, Lucy’s career has taken her across industries and borders.
She is an accomplished event speaker ( see Lucy’s TED talk ) and was named in the Financial Times and HERoes Top 50 Champions of Women in Business in 2017.
Now, she turns her attention to supporting today’s graduates.
“It seemed odd to us that the book didn't already exist,” Lucy says.
“One of the things we wanted to do was to shortcut a lot of the stuff that – as we say in the title of the book – no one ever tells you at the start of your career.”
“For example, people talk about ‘polish’.
In recruitment that's code for ‘do you look and sound like me?’, which creates a barrier for people from certain backgrounds who haven't had a certain path in education or don’t have the connections to make their working life easier.”
“We wanted to level the playing field by being really honest about the stuff that people tend not to speak of.”
There is no generation better placed to take advantage of workplace change than people who are graduating right now.
Our conversation with Lucy comes at a pertinent time.
For many recent graduates, COVID-19 means starting a career during a period of great uncertainty, but Lucy points out that there are positives in that, too.
“It's a time of change, and I think that's exciting.
There is no generation better placed to take advantage of workplace change than people who are graduating right now.”
One of those changes has been a switch to homeworking, which can be isolating for a new employee.
Lucy outlines how that challenge might be overcome: “If you're sat at home on your own all day, it's really challenging and it would be ridiculous for me to suggest that isn't a really difficult thing to manage.”
“How do you absorb what would be happening around you in an office or a factory?
So much of what we learn is through overhearing, and that's not scheduled as a Zoom call on a Wednesday at three o'clock.
So I think the solution is to ask.
You have to put time in with your direct reports or with colleagues that you admire and ask them for feedback.”
“On the positive side, we’ve got to acknowledge how much this shift means for things like accessibility, for flexible working, for not having to move to London and spend your entry level salary on a small flat and having a horrible time.”
“It will mean that more talent finds its way into great careers with fewer barriers.”
One of the key topics covered in the book, and a delicate subject in the working world, is money.
As a number of students asked Lucy: How do I negotiate a pay rise?
“I think the most useful tip is to track your progress from the start.
Keep a note of the things you do that are good and have made a difference.
If you have a dossier of your contributions to that business or that team, then that should form the basis of any conversation about pay.”
“You're demonstrating your worth through your actions.
Having a vague feeling that you've done a great job is great and probably perfectly true, but it isn't as powerful.”
As a Leeds mentor , Lucy is a strong advocate of its value to any student and professional.
“I didn't have an obvious mentor at university or before.
I think I would have really benefited from someone who could have helped me directionally and given me a bit of confidence.”
“The word mentor is scary and big and often puts people off, but it's also important to say that you won't always have the same mentor, and it doesn’t need to have a capital M.”
“I have two people who are mentoring me – they probably don't even know they're mentoring me – in two different areas of my career, one in radio and one in TV.
And I use them to help me with the stuff that I don't know.”
“Try to think of mentorship as an ongoing and ever changing dynamic in your working life.”
Tune into the full My Leeds podcast episode to hear more from Lucy, and follow her on social media @mslucyclayton.
And don’t forget to pick up your copy of How to Go to Work: The Honest Advice No One Ever Tells You at the Start of Your Career.
To listen to more podcasts from the Alumni team at the University of Leeds, subscribe to the My Leeds Story podcast .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/news-alumni/news/article/5024/escaping-poverty-the-learnings-that-shaped-madan-luthra:
As a refugee growing up in India, Dr Madan Luthra (PhD Biochemistry, 1972) learnt that education would prove his lifeline.
Dr Madan Luthra was born in the village of Jodhpur, Pakistan, five days after India was partitioned.
Madan’s mother carried him and his sister across the border into India, clinging to the divide between two train carriages for over 18 hours to reach a refugee camp.
“If you look at where I’ve come from, where I ended up, who would imagine that’s possible?” Madan muses.
The answer, in short, is nobody.
Growing up as a refugee, hard work became a constant in the life of a man whose scientific research, along with his approach to life, would impact countless others along the way.
Image: Madan (left), receiving the 2020 Akhil Chopra Unsung Heroes award from Aseem R.
Mahajan, Consulate General of India, Houston
Madan speaks to me from his home in Houston, Texas.
He is retired now, a long career in biochemistry behind him, but he still has a busy day ahead.
He volunteers for Sewa International – a charity dedicated to supporting local communities – and their phones haven’t stopped ringing throughout the COVID-19 pandemic.
“We’ve just had an unprecedented cold spell, too,” Madan says.
“Food supplies went down, power, water pipes burst, so there were a lot of people needed our help.”
I ask him how he coped – he is 73 years old, after all.
“It wasn’t a problem for me.
It really reminded me of Leeds, actually.
It’s always cold there, no?” He laughs – assuring me that despite the weather, his time in the Department of Biochemistry was special, and Leeds has always held a warm place in his heart.
My father taught us that without education, nothing was going to change.
In Madan’s eyes, his story begins once the refugee camps were left behind – he was too young to remember them.
His family were reunited and settled in Alawalpur, a small town near Jalandhar.
They did not have much – Madan mentions that he had no shoes, one shirt, a pair of shorts – but despite that, he smiles at the memories.
“Things were simple.
It was a two-room mud house, with eleven of us in there.
Oh, and the cow and calf, too.
But even though we were very poor, we had a lot of fun.”
It was during this time that Madan learnt a lesson that would shape the rest of his life.
“My father was a primary school teacher, and he had a vision for us.
He taught us every evening, and he helped us to understand that education was the most important thing in the world.
I’m so grateful to him for that.”
Such was the impression Ram Dhan Luthra made upon his children, all Madan’s siblings went on to university.
Of the five of them, three became teachers.
Madan went through the public school system in Jalandhar, and then veterinary college in Hissar, where a glimpse of biosystems caught his imagination.
“After two years, I switched to biochemistry at Panjab University.
But the problem was, advances were limited because there was a lack of funding.
There were no materials so we could only read theory.”
“I wanted to learn more, and I wanted to go somewhere that could happen.”
“I didn’t apply anywhere but Leeds for my PhD because so many of my books were written by a Dr Peter Campbell.
I wanted to study with him.”
Appointed Head of Department in 1967, Professor Campbell was indeed a distinguished scientist.
More than that, he was a supporter of young biochemists in developing countries, and he worked tirelessly to help them gain PhD funding.
Madan was the first student he took from India.
“Getting that letter was one of the happiest days of my life,” Madan remembers.
“I was in my village during the holidays, and I can still picture it in my hand, seeing his signature.
This was all I had worked for; I could go somewhere, I could do something.”
Although money was still an issue, support from his brother – who now worked as a postman in Slough – and a scholarship from the Multiple Sclerosis Society helped Madan on his way.
He would go on to spend much of his time in the biochemistry department, situated at 9 Hyde Terrace – a red-brick terrace building that is no longer recognisable to Madan as he looks on google maps.
“It’s unbelievable,” he says.
“We were crammed in with the labs and the offices back then.
But now, I saw there was a penthouse for sale.
I thought, ‘Oh wow!
Things have changed.’”
It was in those very labs that Madan had his first scientific success.
He worked for a year on the role of phosphoinositide (a pivotal class of phospholipids) in the brain – with nothing to show for it.
“I worked so hard – because that’s all I wanted to do,” Madan explains.
“But I couldn’t solve it.”
Professor Campbell and Madan decided to change the project, only Madan struggled to let it go.
“I was so frustrated, so I went to the library instead of going home.
I found an article from 1858 on inositol, and it described a very simple method.
I picked it up, went back to the lab and tried it for the whole night.
By the next evening, I could break the compound.
My supervisor, Ayman Sheltawy, came back on the Monday.
I showed him the compound, and his eyes lit up.”
It was the breakthrough they’d been looking for, and Madan’s findings were published in three papers and a distinguished journal.
Image: Madan (second row, second from right) and the Department of Biochemistry, 1970-71
Where long hours and science were nothing new to Madan, he was undergoing a different education outside of the lab.
A few months after he arrived in Leeds, Madan and a fellow Indian student bought a run-down property on Grosvenor Hill for £250.
Madan recalls the challenge of making it habitable: “The toilet was outside, which was terrible in winter, so the first thing we did was build a toilet inside – not that we knew what we were doing.
There was no heating, so we got paraffin heaters.
“On a weekend, we’d walk to go to buy things from auctions.
I remember carrying big paraffin drums up Grosvenor hill – it’s a big hill!
It was great fun, though.
“At Christmas, I needed money, so I joined my brother in Slough and worked for the post office, delivering parcels on our bicycles.
We came from poverty, so we knew what hard work was, but nothing prepared us for the British winter at 3am on a morning – it was so cold.
“My Leeds experience was not just academic.
I met so many people from all over the world who helped me during those days.
It was beyond anything I expected – yes, it helped me in my career – but it also prepared me to do something on a larger scale with people, too.
“I realised that it doesn’t matter whether you’re British, Indian, an immigrant, local, refugee, black, white, whatever: human need is human need.
We help one another.”
It is why, on leaving Leeds, Madan gave his renovated house to an Indian student new to the city – for free.
Madan points out that it is an approach to life, along with his commitment to learning, that began with his parents.
He dedicated his thesis to his father, who sadly passed away in December 1968, shortly after his son arrived in Leeds.
Madan moved to the University of Arizona Medical Centre, Tucson for his post-doctorate, where he would have the chance to conduct research on red blood cell membranes.
It was after months of adjustments and calculation that Madan and his team discovered calmodulin, a pivotal protein present in all living cells.
The discovery, the crowning moment in Madan’s academic career, would play a key role in research later considered for a Nobel Prize – and was worthy of consideration in its own right.
“It was a universal protein to all species, and everyone was talking about it.
That was an exciting time.”
Just as important for Madan, however, was meeting his wife, Rajyalakshmi, a fellow academic at the University.
The couple settled in Houston, where Madan worked in a faculty position at the Baylor College of Medicine.
He would later open a drug testing laboratory, running his own business until 2003, before seeing out his career at the University of Texas M.
D.
Anderson Cancer Center (UTMDACC) working in clinical pathology research until his retirement.
Rajyalakshmi continues to work at UTMDACC as a professor and director in the Molecular Diagnostic Laboratory.
Madan wasn’t ready to relax in retirement.
He began volunteering with Sewa International with the world view developed in Leeds at the forefront of his mind.
Sewa is a Sanskrit word that describes the act of selfless service.
“Every community has the same problems – loneliness, helplessness, for example – every community needs support.” And when COVID-19 hit, Madan witnessed the need increase.
“We delivered groceries, PPE, aided stranded international students, supported grieving families, even helped arrange funerals.
And then there was the plasma register.”
It was an area that would marry Madan’s lifelong passions – science, and helping others – as he helped to create a donor registry, finding blood donors from amongst recovered patient, whose antibodies might help fight the virus.
People began to take notice, with local and national press soon picking up the story.
He was awarded the 2020 Akhil Chopra Unsung Heroes award for his efforts during COVID-19.
As ever, he remains humble.
“Things were moving too slowly, and so I helped speed things up with finding donors.
Now there is a vaccine, so we are helping people get vaccinated, too.”
Image: Madan volunteering with Sewa International
I ask Madan, just as I did at the start of our interview, how he coped visiting these COVID-19 positive patients.
Was he not worried?
“I take all necessary precautions.
Their need is far greater than the risk to me.”
“If people need help, and I can help them, Ed, why wouldn’t I?
Nar sewa naryan sewa – it means serving humanity, serving divinity.”
And for Madan, after a lifetime of learning, that is the most important lesson of all.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni-volunteering/doc/video-transcript-natasha-babar-evans:
Transcript for the video embedded on the Alumni volunteering page .
(Music)
(University of Leeds logo appears.)
(Natasha Babar-Evans appears, they are stood in front of a building on campus, they turn to the camera and smile.
Text says: Natasha Babar-Evans, Masters in Business Administration 2016.)
(Natasha says): I did an MBA here a few years ago and I love coming back to talk to the students about life out there in the real world…
(Footage of campus including students in graduation.)
(Footage returns to Natasha who says:): but also help them with entrepreneurial skills and the importance of it and just generally come and help mentor and coach them.
I actually studied at medical biochemistry at university and as I went through the degree I enjoyed many aspects of it, but I knew at the end of that, that wasn't the world that I wanted to get into.
(Natasha walks through a small grassy park, past some modern university buildings.)
Natasha says: but it's really difficult to then make the leap into something different.
(Students in a study space, using computers.)
I had some great career counselling from some of the people at university and it helped me to take a massive leap into converting to law.
I've had quite a few different roles, but where I started was actually being a lawyer for a local regional law firm called Walker Morrison Leeds and I really enjoyed that I was doing banking law which was a bit different.
I was really delighted to be asked to come and work for one of the banks and I got to quite a good position in the bank and decided to go and do an MBA.
(Cuts to Natasha sat in café using a laptop, someone hands over a coffee and Natasha smiles then types on the laptop.)
(Footage of Natasha on campus again.)
Natasha says: And it was a fantastic opportunity for me to really work out what I wanted to do in terms of a career and I realised from doing that MBA that actually, I really loved the corporate environment I was working in, but what I really wanted to do was to do more of working for a purpose-led organisation.
And I went to work for entrepreneurial spark which is a social enterprise looking after amazing, determined entrepreneurs so I got the opportunity to almost continue my development.
It made me brave to want to be an entrepreneur and after a few years of doing that and loving it I finally made the leap myself to become an entrepreneur and I'm now chief operating officer and owner in a business which is a flexible workspace provider.
(Natasha walks towards a glass-fronted building and enters.
Above the door it says Leeds University Business School.)
Natasha says: so with Leeds University leaders in residence, some of the things that we get asked to do is to be on a panel so students get the chance to ask you questions about how you would approach things and things that they're concerned about actually and how they play out in the real working environment.
(Various shots in a busy study space with lots of students having discussions.)
I have attended conferences where I've spoken about entrepreneurship and how corporates are actually trying to be more entrepreneurial in their thinking and how focusing on that might help with your employability.
(Cuts back to Natasha.)
(Natasha says): What I really love to talk about is really female empowerment and for international women's day I was invited to speak on a panel which was called ‘She leads’ and it was really to give some insights into how I dealt with certain situations and why diversity inclusion is important to me.
(Footage of students in graduation gowns posing for photos and an old building with a sign that says Leeds University Business School.
And then I've also actually spoken to students at the business school as well, so talking to them around why the MBA worked for me and what it helped me analyse and do and how I've used it since then and how it's grown my networks.
Whilst I was actually doing the MBA I was invited to come and talk to the law students about where my law degree helped me to end up and that wasn't necessarily in law.
(Various shots of students studying together).
I've really enjoyed just basically paying it forward and helping other people.
(Cuts back to Natasha who says): So what I can give them is actually a feel for some of the experiences I've had and how I've approached things and also in terms of my career journey, what's helped to build my confidence.
(Footage of students on campus including groups of students in graduation gowns posing for photos with friends and family.)
(Cuts back to Natasha who says:) Life is not easy at the moment and it's tough in terms of the job market and you have to stand out.
I’m hoping that I get them to think about what is going to help them to stand out too.
(Cuts back to Natasha who says:)
It makes me feel good to help other people, makes you listen and listening for me is a massively important skill that's underrated and so yes, volunteering for me has helped me develop as a person as well.
I meet some amazing students and in fact, one of them I met when we knew that we needed some additional intern support at (the company).
They came and helped us with some business development research but I also got them involved with every aspect of the business and they got to see all of our workspaces in Leeds.
I would have absolutely loved at university to be challenged a little bit more around my future.
I would love for someone to sit down and listen to me about what I really wanted and what made me tick.
If I'd had someone I guess like myself who would have asked a few more questions and sat down and spent some time just talking through what is it that you really want, what's your vision for the future.
(Various shots of people sitting in a café, chatting, reading or working on laptops.)
Even if you don't know what your exact vision is, what are the things you love to do?
And really help them develop a career path for them.
So I want to be that person.
I'd love to help other students find their way to making themselves happy.
(Cuts back to Natasha who is smiling.)
(University of Leeds logo appears, with web address: www.leeds.ac.uk.)

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni-volunteering/dir-record/profiles/18543/michelle-iyalla-harry:
Throughout my education and career, I’ve been fortunate to have great mentors (and still do).
I realise this is not something a lot of people have access to so I’d like to do my part to help others as well.
Now, I make a difference by assisting with CV writing and careers advice.
Give it a go, whatever free time you have, carve a little out of it and help give back.
You don’t know whose life you may change.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni-volunteering/dir-record/profiles/18544/sandeep-kinge:
Being able to help upcoming graduates to choose right path, something I feel I struggled with when I graduated 15 years ago, is fantastic.
Volunteering at Leeds therefore helps me to feel content.
Learn, unlearn, and relearn from the students.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni-volunteering/dir-record/profiles/18545/maria-ventura:
I got involved as a Leeds mentor, offered work experience to students and spoke at careers events because we need more women in my industry and we need younger people.
I made many mistakes in my career.
Once I had my goals, I had no idea how to achieve them.
I am happy to teach youngsters not to make my mistakes.
Thanks to people who volunteer, we can improve the delicate passage between study and work.
I feel like I can help someone who is a bit lost, like I was, but has ambition and big dreams.
If you have the time and feel you have something to give, you should do it.
You are giving students the chance to ask questions and they can express their doubts without worrying about looking stupid, which is extremely important for growth.
The idea that some people are entering your industry thanks to your help is a really beautiful feeling.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni-volunteering/dir-record/profiles/18546/andy-horne:
As a graduate, I was keen to help students take their first steps.
I’m passionate about investing in people and identifying the next generation of leaders.
I enjoy making a positive contribution to others.
It’s rewarding and enlightening.
It’s interesting to see what Gen Z expect from employers, and how it differs from my own expectation.
Go for it.
You get to help others take their first steps and learn loads about how to better support younger colleagues, which is great future-proofing!

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni-volunteering/dir-record/profiles/18547/liza-kellett:
I offered work experience and spoke to prospective students because both times I studied at Leeds I was surrounded by staff and people who inspired me and supported me.
They were my cheerleaders when things got tough and they were allies in getting me through my degrees.
So I wanted to emulate that for today's students.
I think that volunteering gives students an insight into how theory meets practice; they see 'real' people working in jobs they aspire to and this builds confidence.
They learn about the challenges, risks and mistakes too and this builds their resilience.
I am always so impressed by the students I work with – in awe of them really.
Their global (and local!) perspective and strong values are inspiring.
There are so many ways to get involved.
You can find a role which works for you, around your commitments, and for others.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni-volunteering/dir-record/profiles/18548/lynette-akong:
I wanted to return some of the support I received during my time at Leeds.
The mentor-mentee relationship allows both the established and developing professionals to learn from each other's experiences.
It means that Leeds, as a leading research university, becomes a great platform for ideas sharing.
That can have tremendous impact on our developing world.
Leeds students are passionate and innovative.
These qualities emerge in each interactive session and they display a high degree of professionalism and commitment to their chosen field of study.
We can provide them with an insight into the reality of moving from the learning environment to the corporate environment.
It makes me feel humbled and valued to support them.
Step up, you have a lot to offer.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni-volunteering/doc/video-transcript-olivia-hansard-speaks-placement-year:
Transcript for the video embedded on the Alumni and internships page .
[Music]
[The University of Leeds logo appears].
[Olivia appears on screen, speaking into camera.
There are framed photos on the wall behind.]
[Olivia says:] Hi everyone.
My name is Olivia and I am currently on a year-long placement as part of my degree which is a BA in Middle Eastern Studies at the University of Leeds
This year has been really important for me because it's encouraged me to look beyond my degree and it's opened me up to a whole new world opportunities and creating connections.
I’ve definitely seen it as a sort of stepping stone and I don't just have to look at a career which focuses solely on my degree.
The company I’m working for is currently based in Brussels so it's been great to have a different perspective, a global view and to see how different people work, not just within a UK-based company.
Obviously due to the pandemic I'm unable to join the team out there but everyone's in the same position as me and I've definitely built connections that I can use in the future and it's really important to see how a workplace functions and thrives.
Despite not being able to travel there, so definitely I would recommend it to anyone who is looking to do a placement in their second or third year.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni/doc/global-alumni-ambassadors:
Global Alumni Ambassadors help to develop a network of key contacts and representatives in different geographical areas.
Global Alumni Ambassadors offer information and guidance to prospective and current Leeds students and support the growth of alumni activity by organising various types of alumni events in their region.
The role of a Global Alumni Ambassador can be varied, depending on the University’s regional priorities and will work closely with the Alumni and Supporter Engagement Team at the University of Leeds.
As a Global Alumni Ambassador with specific local insights, you may be asked to:
As part of the University’s regional activity, Alumni Ambassadors may also be asked to:
As a supporter of the University, you will be expected to:
We are currently piloting the role of Global Alumni Ambassador in South Korea and India, and we hope to expand it to other countries in the future.
If you are in one of these key regions and would like to become a Global Alumni Ambassador, email Advancement team at alumni@leeds.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/alumni-volunteering/doc/transcript-volunteering-plus-programme:
Transcript for the video embedded on the Volunteering with the Plus Programme page .
(Zidra sits down and smiles.
A caption says: Zidra Ketelaars, Race and Resistance MA, Graduated 2019.)
Zidra: The Plus Programme opens up the University to people who've come from less traditional backgrounds into education, and it recognizes that those people need more support.
(Abby sits down and smiles.
A caption says: Abbey Tsang, second year Business Management with Marketing BA.)
Abby: They’re trying to bridge the gap for those students, and allow them to have equal opportunities to programmes and societies as well.
Zidra: The Plus Programme will be something that's part of a student's whole experience going through University and continue to be a part of their experience as an alum.
Being involved in the Plus Programme as a volunteer gives you a great opportunity to get involved with students who've come from similar backgrounds to you.
When I was doing my Masters, I came back and gave mentoring advice to dissertation students.
Abby: Having access to the alumni from the Plus Programme has been really useful.
I think it would be quite rare to have that one-to-one, like meeting with someone who's so established in that industry.
I had a mentoring session with a lady called Claire Himmer, she was a CEO of a company.
She gave me an insight into marketing and what a career could be like.
She connected me with some of her other industry links as well, so I was able to speak with them outside of the meeting.
It inspired me.
Zidra: Because I had such a positive experience when I was at the University, and I felt like I was given a lot, it was really nice to then be able to think that I could give back and I could help people.
I could make sure people were enjoying University the way that I enjoyed University.
The students get stuff out of it, but also you really get something out of it, so it's a win-win.
As an alum there’s such a wide range of things you can get involved in, no matter the time pressures you have in your own life.
So you could get involved in mentoring, but you can also get involved in workshops and events, writing LinkedIn posts and blogs, or even being in short videos like this.
Abby: When I graduate from the University of Leeds, I’d definitely like to come back and help and hopefully mentor some other students and inspire them.
Without the Plus Programme, I'd definitely say I would have no sense of direction at all, career wise.
Zidra: It's really nice to kind of give back after you've had that great experience at Uni.
You also have this really unique experience that you can share with other students and it's just really fun as well as being rewarding.
Abby: You could really change someone's life, especially their career.
They might become inspired by you and eventually that student might actually follow the same path.
Zidra: There are so many different opportunities to get involved with us.
If you're interested, please get in touch.
(A caption says: University of Leeds.
Find out more at leeds.ac.uk/alumni-volunteering )

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-applying/doc/t-levels-statement:
The University of Leeds welcomes talented students from a variety of educational backgrounds who have the potential to succeed on our courses.
T Levels provide students the opportunity to acquire advanced subject knowledge and apply this to real-life situations and activities through work experience.
This enables development of practical skills for employment transferable to higher education.
The following T Level subjects have been assessed as suitable for entry on to specific courses.
Please refer to the linked course pages for more information.
Our typical offer is Distinction overall with grade A in the Core Component, unless otherwise specified.
Other courses may accept T Levels on a case-by-case basis depending on your occupational specialism and other qualifications or experience.
For more information, please contact the admissions team for the course you are interested in.
You can find their contact details in Course Search .
Where a T Level is not accepted for the course you wish to study, you may instead meet the entry criteria for a foundation year that would then allow you to progress on to your preferred undergraduate course.
Any T Level subject will be considered on a case-by-case basis, provided that you meet the other entry requirements.
Please see the following list of our extended degrees with a foundation year and check the course pages to ensure you meet the non-academic requirements for entry:
Please email the Lifelong Learning Centre at lifelonglearning@leeds.ac.uk for more information about foundation courses.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-applying/doc/postcode-search:
This online postcode search can be used to find out whether you meet the Access to Leeds geographical requirement of "living in an area with low levels of participation in Higher Education."
Postcode eligibility is assessed using a combination of two datasets, Participation of Local Areas (POLAR) and Indices of Multiple Deprivation (IMD).
Please note that we are unable to assess applicants living outside of the UK or those from the Channel Islands or Isle of Man.
The postcode search is intended as a guide only.
Eligibility can only be confirmed once your application has been fully assessed by the Access to Leeds team.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-applying/doc/care-experienced-estranged-students:
If you are currently in care, have experience of being in care or are estranged from your parents (meaning you have no relationship or physical or financial support from them), you could benefit from support.
Being care experienced means you have spent any amount of time, before you were 16, either:
Depending on your circumstances, you could access support with:
We understand that you may have different concerns to other students.
If you have any questions please contact Lisa Firth in the Plus Programme team by:
You could be eligible for the Access to Leeds scheme which could offer you the chance to study a degree with lower entry requirements than listed on our course pages, as well as support to prepare you for university.
Find out if you are eligible and how to apply to Access to Leeds .
You will automatically have access to support from our Plus Programme , a scheme for UK undergraduate and postgraduate taught students from backgrounds that are less represented at university.
The Plus Programme can help you transition to university, get the most from your studies and other opportunities as a student and progress beyond your course.
You may be eligible for our means-tested scholarships .
Although places are competitive, your application will receive priority when we consider applications.
You must apply by the deadline for your year of entry.
If you don’t receive a scholarship, and you are on a full time course, you will usually qualify for funding through the Leeds Bursary , please check the eligibility requirements for this.
You don’t need to apply for this.
The Financial Assistance Fund may also offer additional financial support and you can apply at any time during your studies.
If you include information about your personal circumstances on your accommodation application form, it will be dealt with as a priority and we can offer you:
You will need to provide evidence of your status to the Accommodation Office:
If you are unsure of the evidence needed to confirm your circumstances, please email Lisa Firth: estrangedstudents@leeds.ac.uk or email the Plus Programme team via careleavers@leeds.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate/doc/lpn-postcode-checker:
Use the following postcode checker to see if you live in a neighbourhood where there is low participation in higher education.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-fees/doc/fee-assessment:
Your residency status determines how much tuition fee you are required to pay.
We may also use your fee status to assess your eligibility for scholarships.
We must confirm the correct residency status to the government for all our students.
A student’s residency can be deemed either home (UK) or overseas .
Your residency status determines whether you are liable to pay tuition fees at the UK or international rate.
EU students (domiciled outside the UK) starting a course after 2021 have international fee status.
This does not include Irish citizens, who may be eligible for UK fees.
Based on the information you provide in your application to the University, your offer letter will state either the UK or the international tuition fee.
We may contact you if we require further information to determine your fee status.
If you have any questions regarding your fee status before you receive an offer, please email the Admissions Operations team via feeassessments@leeds.ac.uk .
For general advice about fee rates, please visit the UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) website .
If you believe that you are being charged the wrong fee, you will need to email the Admissions Operations team via feeassessments@leeds.ac.uk .
We may ask you to provide additional information and documents.
After receiving all the information we need from you, we will carry out our fee assessment in accordance with the relevant legislation: the Higher Education (Fee Limit Condition) (England) Regulations 2017 (as amended) (S.I.
2017 No.1189); the Education (Fees and Awards) (England) Regulations 2007 (as amended) (S.I.
2007 No.779); and by using guidance from UKCISA.
All fee assessments will be undertaken in line with legislation in force at the time of application.
A member of the relevant admissions team will carry out an initial assessment and a second member of admissions staff will then review this.
We will email you with the outcome of your fee assessment.
If you require a new offer letter that shows your updated fee status, you must request this directly from your course admissions team.
You can find their email address on Course Search or, for postgraduate research programmes, on the postgraduate research admissions contacts page .
If you disagree with our decision you have the right to appeal.
There are two stages to the appeal procedure.
You may appeal in writing to the Admissions Operations Team Leader.
International Foundation Year, undergraduate and postgraduate research applicants should email the Admissions Operations team via feeassessments@leeds.ac.uk to appeal.
Taught postgraduate applicants should contact us through the application portal .
The basis for an appeal must be that an incorrect decision was made following the Higher Education (Fee Limit Condition) (England) Regulations 2017 (as amended) (S.I.
2017 No.1189) or the Education (Fees and Awards) (England) Regulations 2007 (as amended) (S.I.
2007 No.779).
All appeals will be considered by two members of staff.
You will be informed of the decision by email.
If you still disagree with the decision, you may appeal in writing to the Director of Admissions.
The basis for an appeal must be that an incorrect decision was made initially and at stage one of the appeals process.
The Director of Admissions will review the whole case and seek guidance and clarification from colleagues as appropriate.
You will be informed of the decision in writing.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/international-exchange-and-study-abroad/doc/fees-funding:
Find out about whether you will need to pay tuition fees and what scholarships are available for exchange and study abroad students.
If your home university has nominated you for a semester or year of exchange, you will not have to pay tuition fees to the University of Leeds.
If you are not a nominated student from an exchange partner, you will need to pay tuition fees to the University of Leeds.
Please email the Study Abroad team via studyabroad@leeds.ac.uk for further information about the fees you will pay to us.
If you need to pay tuition fees, you will receive information about how to pay your tuition fees in your acceptance letter.
There may be additional costs outside of the tuition fee, such as administrative charges or fieldwork costs.
You should also bear in mind any living expenses you may have while studying at Leeds, such as accommodation, food and transport costs.
You will find details of existing scholarships to help fund your studies in the following information.
Each year BUTEX awards a number of £500 scholarships to students studying abroad for a single semester or full academic year.
The University of Leeds is a BUTEX member so incoming study abroad students applying to Leeds can submit a scholarship application.
BUTEX scholarships are awarded based on a calendar year and not an academic year.
This means that students who are completing a full year of exchange that takes place across two calendar years will have two opportunities to apply, but each student can only win a BUTEX scholarship once.
Find out more and apply for the BUTEX scholarship .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/leeds-international-summer-school/doc/fees-scholarships:
Leeds International Summer School (LISS) is an all-inclusive programme.
Find out what is included in the programme fee and read about the scholarships we offer.
The programme fee includes:
We also offer a free transport service to the University from Manchester Airport and Leeds Bradford Airport during the LISS arrival period.
We’ll send full details of how to book the transport service to LISS offer holders in May.
The costs of flights, travel insurance and visas are not included in the programme fee.
Submit your LISS application by 1 April 2025 to receive an early discount.
If you’re attending for the four-week programme the discount is worth £150.
If you’re attending for the two-week programme, the discount is worth £75.
We offer a group discount to institutions that wish to send a group of 10 students or more to LISS.
Please email Leeds International Summer School at summer@leeds.ac.uk for more details.
If you have a Grade Point Average (GPA) of 3.2 or above (or equivalent) and you apply by the 1 April 2025 early application deadline, you can apply for one of over 20 merit scholarships to help pay for your fees.
The scholarship is worth £500 if you're attending the full four-week programme and £250 if you're attending either block one or block two.
To apply, you should upload your answers to the following questions as a supporting document during the online application:
Your scholarship application should be between 500 and 1,000 words in total.
Please note you can apply for both the merit scholarship and LISS Champion scholarship, but you can’t receive both.
We are looking for up to four LISS Champions to raise the profile of Leeds International Summer School.
As a Champion, you’ll share your experience of attending the summer school via different platforms including social media, blog posts and presenting at events before, during and after the programme.
The scholarship is worth £1,000 which will be used to help pay your LISS fees.
To apply, you should have submitted your application for a place on LISS for the full four-week programme.
You should email a video to Leeds International Summer School at summer@leeds.ac.uk that is no longer than two minutes, telling us why we should choose you to be a LISS Champion.
You should explain why you would be a good Champion for the University of Leeds, any relevant experience you have and how the opportunity will help you achieve your academic, personal and/or professional goals.
The application deadline is 1 April 2025.
When you've received your LISS acceptance letter, you'll need to pay £300 of the programme fee as a deposit to accept your offer of a place.
You must pay the remaining balance in full by 8 May 2025.
The deposit and remaining balance are non-refundable 14 days after payment.
Please note, if you submit your application close to the 1 May application deadline you still be required to pay your fees by the 8 May payment deadline.
Remember to check your email frequently for your offer letter and be prepared to make payment by the 8 May to secure your place.
Payments are usually non-refundable after 14 days.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-fees/doc/living-expenses/page/2:
Three of our students tell us how much they spend and their tips for saving money while studying at Leeds.
Read about my budget and money-saving tips – Jennifer Durham, MBChB, Medicine and Surgery
Read about my budget and money saving tips – Bunmi Adaramola, PhD, Law
Read about my budget and money-saving tips – Poppy Davison, MPsych, BSc Advanced Psychology
Want to find out more?
Chat to a Link to Leeds Ambassador .
Link to Leeds Ambassadors are current students who can help you find out more about living in Leeds and can give you tips on budgeting for life in the UK.
Explore our blogs about managing your money as a student .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/international-visas-immigration/doc/applying-student-visa:
Use the following information to help you apply for your Student visa (formerly known as Tier 4) from outside the UK.
Before you apply for your visa, make sure you are confident that you can travel and only book your flight when your visa has been granted.
For the latest information about Student visas, please check the UK Government website .
Firmly accept your unconditional offer.
Only taught postgraduate students are required to pay a fee deposit of £2,000 or provide evidence of full funding before a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) can be issued.
This includes students taking a summer pre-sessional English language course at the University of Leeds Language Centre before their taught postgraduate degree.
Find out how to pay a tuition fee deposit if you are a taught postgraduate student .
Your CAS will be emailed to you after you have accepted your offer.
If you are a taught postgraduate student it will be emailed to you after you have also paid your fee deposit or provided acceptable evidence of full funding.
You will receive an electronic version of your CAS – an original version is not required for your visa application.
Check all the information on your CAS to confirm it is correct.
In particular, please ensure that your passport number is for the passport you will use to travel to the UK.
If any details are incorrect, please let us know as soon as possible by emailing the CAS enquiries team at casqueries@leeds.ac.uk .
Any tuition fees (including fee deposits) that you have paid prior to the CAS being issued will be shown on the CAS you receive.
If you make any further payments towards your tuition fees before using your CAS to apply for a visa, we will email you an updated CAS summary automatically once the payment has been processed – you do not need to contact us to request this and your CAS number will not change.
If you do not receive an updated CAS before you apply for your visa you can submit receipts for your payments with your visa application.
Your email provider may not display the CAS fee data correctly if they are not used to rendering the British pound sterling symbol.
However, please be assured that UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) will receive the correct information in the electronic version of your CAS.
We cannot make any updates to your CAS once it has been used for a visa application.
Depending on your situation, you will need some, or all, of the following documents:
All documents must translated into English by a certified translator if they are not in English.
If you are uploading copies of your documents please make sure that the copies are in colour, that the entire document is visible, and that all the text is legible.
In addition to demonstrating that you have enough money to pay your outstanding course fees for the first year of your course, you will also need to show that you have enough funds to meet the maintenance requirement (money for your living expenses).
You will need £1,136 for each month of your course, up to a maximum of 9 months (a total of £10,224 if your course is 9 months or longer).
If you're applying at the same time as your dependants, you will also need to show additional funds for their living expenses.
The maintenance requirement for each dependant is £680 per month for nine months (£6,120).
Please read our financial document checklist before you make your visa application.
You can also find out more about Student visa financial requirements from UKCISA .
If you will receive official financial sponsorship, a scholarship or a bursary please ensure that this funding meets the above requirements.
If not, you are required to submit a bank statement to supplement your funding.
Please note that under the Student visa rules, you can only use money belonging to you or your parents to meet the financial requirements (unless you are being funded by an official financial sponsor or receiving an official student loan).
You cannot use money held in a company/busines account, even if the company/business is owned by you or your parents, and you cannot rely on funds belonging to another relative such as a grandparent, sibling, aunt or uncle.
UKVI has confirmed it will accept funds in a certificate of deposit if the certificate confirms that the money has been held for the required 28 day period and that the account holder can access the funds at any time.
If you would like the Student Visa Advice team to check your financial documents before you submit your Student visa application please scan and email it as a PDF attachment to the Student Visa Advice team at studentvisaadvice@leeds.ac.uk .
We will let you know if it meets the requirements.
UKVI consider nationals from some countries to be 'low risk' and as such, they do not need to submit any financial evidence with their Student visa application.
Please check if your nationality is on UKVI’s list before submitting your application.
However, even if you are an exempt nationality, you must still make sure that you have documents that meet the financial requirements on the date you submit your application, as UKVI may request these documents from you later during the processing of your application.
If UKVI request your financial evidence, your visa application will be refused if it does not meet the requirements.
Complete your application on the UKVI website .
The earliest date you can submit your application is six months before your course start date.
Please make sure that you are applying using the correct Student visa application form.
Do not submit an application using the Child Student or Short-term student application forms.
The application should be made in the country where you are living.
If there is no visa application centre in your home country, you will need to apply via an application centre in another country.
The University of Leeds is a Higher Education Provider with a track record of compliance .
Please note that your visa application will be decided by UKVI on the basis of the information and documents you provide to them.
The issue of a CAS does not guarantee a successful application.
You will be required to make two payments to submit your visa application.
You will need to pay an Immigration Health Surcharge and a Visa Application Fee.
The amounts listed below are in British pounds, but if you are applying from outside the UK you will be required to make the payments in your local currency or, in some countries, US dollars.
This means that the true cost may vary based on the currency exchange rate.
If your visa will be valid for more than six months, you will be required to pay the Immigration Health Surcharge (IHS).
Payment of the IHS will allow you to use the NHS free of charge while you have your visa.
The annual IHS rate for students is £776 per year, and £388 for any additional period that is less than 6 months.
The total amount you will need to pay will depend on the length of the visa you are applying for.
If you are studying a course that is longer than 12 months your visa will be granted with an additional 4 months after your course end date, and these additional 4 months are included in the IHS calculation.
For example:
The full amount for the IHS must be paid up-front.
It cannot be paid in instalments.
The IHS must also be paid for any dependant that is applying to join you in the UK.
You will receive an IHS refund if your visa application is refused or if you withdraw your visa application before UKVI makes a decision.
You will not receive a refund if you decide not to come to the UK after your visa is granted, or if you leave the UK early (including if this is to take a suspension from your studies).
Find more information about IHS refunds on Gov.uk .
If you are a full-time student from the EU, Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Switzerland you may be eligible to request a full or partial reimbursement of the IHS.
You must have a valid EHIC and you must not work or intend to work in the UK.
Find out more about the IHS reimbursement scheme for EU and Swiss students.
If your visa covers a duration of less than six months, you should buy health insurance in advance of your travel to cover you for using medical services while you are in the UK.
In particular this advice is relevant to students who have a visa that just covers the ten week or six week pre-sessional course in the first instance.
After you have paid the IHS you will need to pay the visa application fee.
The standard visa application fee is £524.
UKVI aim to process standard applications within 15 working days.
In many countries applicants are given the option of also purchasing the Priority Visa Service which costs an additional £500 for a decision within 5 working days, or the Super Priority Visa Service which costs an additional £1000 for a decision by the end of the next working day.
These processing times are not guaranteed and it can take longer to get a decision if, for example, UKVI needs to ask you for more documents or check your details with other government departments or third parties.
Once you have paid the visa application fee and IHS your application will be submitted.
You will then need to you will need to book an appointment to attend in person to submit your documents and give your biometrics.
Some visa application centres have additional charges when booking the appointment.
Find a visa application centre .
If you have a biometric EU, EEA or Swiss passport, you will not need to attend an appointment to submit your application as you will be eligible to apply using the 'UK Immigration: ID Check App'.
From 15 July 2025, most Student visa applicants will be able to submit their biometrics and collect their passport on the same day, meaning that you will not need to return to the visa application centre to collect your passport at a later date.
When your application is processed you will be notified via email and sent instructions for accessing your eVisa (an online record of your immigration status which you need to travel to the UK).
Dependants of Students will still need to wait until their application has been processed before they can collect their passports, and will still receive a physical vignette.
Anyone applying for a Student visa from outside the UK can be interviewed as part of their visa application.
The purpose of the interview is to check if you are a genuine student and that your English ability is at the correct level.
If UKVI decide to interview you they will contact you after you have submitted your application and ask you to be available tor a telephone interview on a particular date and time, or they may ask you to attend an interview in-person at a designated time and location.
You must make sure that you check your email regularly, including your junk folder, in case you are contacted with an interview invitation or a request for further evidence.
At your interview a UKVI caseworker may ask you about the information in your application form, your course, why you want to study in the UK and at the University of Leeds, your education and employment history, your future plans and any other relevant information.
After you submit your application and documents, check your emails regularly (including your spam/junk folder) for any updates or requests for further information.
If you applied through an agent, check if they used their email address for your visa application.
If your application is successful, you will get an entry clearance vignette (visa sticker) in your passport and/or an eVisa (an online record of your immigration status).
For application submitted on and after 15 July 2025, UKVI will stop giving vignettes to people applying for a Student visa.
Instead, you will just receive an eVisa only.
When your visa is granted you will receive instructions from UKVI telling you how to create a UKVI account to view your eVisa.
The eVisa will be valid for the full length of your stay in the UK.
If you are granted an eVisa, you will need to create a UKVI account and get access to your eVisa before you travel to the UK.
Information about how to access your eVisa will be sent to you when your visa is granted.
Find more information about eVisas .
You will not receive a Biometric Residence Permit (BRP).
UKVI stopped issuing new BRPs on 31 October 2024 as these have been replaced by eVisas.
Get access to your eVisa and check your visa details as soon as you receive your decision.
If there is an error on your entry vignette, please contact the Visa Application Centre where you made your application to correct it before you travel.
Find out more about identifying and correcting visa errors.
Please email the Student Visa Advice team at studentvisaadvice@leeds.ac.uk if you require any further guidance or if there is an error requiring urgent correction.
You must make sure that you travel to the UK after the start date of your Student visa.
If you enter the UK before the start date of your visa will not have the correct visa to begin your course.
During registration, the University is required to check the date you enter the UK and confirm that you entered within the dates of your visa.
If you enter the UK via an electronic ePassport gate or the Republic of Ireland you will not pass through UK immigration control and you will not receive an entry stamp in your passport.
Please retain your boarding pass and/or flight details as evidence of your date of entry to the UK.
We recommend that you do not book your flight to the UK until you have received your visa.
Most visa applications are decided within 15 working days of your visa appointment; however, on occasion, there can be delays and we advise against booking a flight in advance that may need to be cancelled or rescheduled.
If your application is refused, please email a copy of the refusal letter to the Student Visa Advice team at studentvisaadvice@leeds.ac.uk .
You cannot reapply using the same CAS, as each CAS can only be used once.
Please wait for our advice before making a new visa application.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/clearing/doc/video-transcript-leeds-city-tour-studying-university-leeds:
Transcript for the video embedded on the Welcome homepage , City life homepage , Undergraduate city life homepage , Masters city life homepage and Research city life homepage .
(The screen shows footage of the clock tower on top of Leeds Town Hall, a vibrant City Square and the historic ruins of Kirkstall Abbey.
Student Holly is walking in Millennium Square, puts her rucksack on the floor and starts to look around)
Holly: So you land in Leeds…
...and you look around.
(Images of Leeds Bradford Airport, a wall mural with the words Leeds painted on, busy street in Leeds, Briggate, group of students walking on Otley Road, a traditional red Royal Mail post box and a street sign directing to Otley Road in Leeds.
After the rotations of images, we see student Aeron as he’s walking down Albion Place.)
Aeron: And you wonder what every new student wonders.
(Student Sherry is also stood on Albion Place, in front of a restaurant.)
Sherry:  Will I fit in?
How do I get around?
(We now see student Aastha walking down St Michael’s Road with Phoebe, Michal and Joey.)
Aastha: Where do I get a decent Arrabbiata or Vegan pizza?
Sherry: Where’s good to go?
(On-screen images show a range of locations in the city centre including the inside of the Corn Exchange, the Neon Cactus on Call Lane, inside the Victoria Quarter, students enjoying food at Chow Down, the Marks & Spencer and Fultons market stalls in Kirkgate Market, a Rugby League match in a packed Headingley Stadium, a flower stall in Kirkgate Market, people enjoying drinks on the rooftop terrace at Belgrave Music Hall & Canteen and a busy bar at Granary Wharf.)
(We now see Holly walking down from the steps outside the front of Leeds Town Hall.)
Holly: Leeds isn’t just any old city.
(We cut to student, Clemens, walking down The Headrow.)
Clemens: It’s a big, vibrant community, full of friendly faces and personality.
(A series of portrait captured faces appear showing a member of staff at the Northern Guitars Bar, a member of the bar staff at The Left Bank, a student outside Hyde Park Book Club, two student friends outside the Headingley Taps and a group of students with skateboards sat chatting in Woodhouse Moor Skate Park.)
(We now see Aeron stood inside the centre of the Corn Exchange.)
Aeron It’s got a real vibe.
(Sherry is now inside Kirkgate Market, walking through the various indoor market stalls.)
Sherry:  Leeds people LOVE being Leeds people
(A series of images showcase a couple of the Burley Banksy street art and a framed Leeds Leeds Leeds picture.
This is followed by more portraits of Leeds people including a member of staff at Crash Records, a butcher from a stall in Kirkgate Market, two staff members outside Poco Sicilian Street Food and a member of staff at The Vinyl Whistle.)
(Student Fatema is stood in the student area of Headingley on North Lane.)
Fatema: Their passion is painted on the walls.
(A range of wall murals from around Leeds build on screen including Cornucopia, Washing Marine, Insa X Moniker, Paving The Way, Me & You, You & Me and finishing with Winifred.)
(We cut to student Michal, sat outside Hyde Park Book Club at a table with his friends Aastha and Phoebe enjoying a drink.)
Michal: As soon as you arrive, you’re welcomed with a friendly…
(A waiter comes on screen, holding two iced coffees.)
Café waiter: …Ey up.
(An on-screen Google Translate graphic pops on screen, showing the translation of Ey up in Spanish, Chinese, French, Arabic and Korean.
Student Fatema is walking up North Lane, with the Manahatta bar behind her.)
Fatema: Which means ‘hello’.
Or - ‘alright?’, which kind of means the same thing.
You’ll get used to it.
Aastha: It’s a real student city.
(A series of footage and images rotate on screen showing students walking down the busy student area of Otley Rd, a student cycling down the road, a student skateboarder, students laughing together outside the Hyde Park Book Club, a map showing all the bars that are part of the Otley Run followed by a group of students in fancy dress, out on and enjoying the Otley Run.
We return to Fatema on North Lane, now with some of the local shops seen behind her.)
Fatema: There are loads of friendly, safe areas to live…
(A rotation of images showing of safe and vibrant student streets and areas in Headingley are shown.
Students Phoebe and Aastha are working through Woodhouse Moor, with Moorland Road in the background.)
Phoebe: And the campus is just a short walk away, like most things in this city.
(We see speeded up footage from a student captured camera, showing them walking through Woodhouse Moor towards the Leeds Business School.
A number of images start to appear on screen to showcase the huge range of things to do in Leeds.
We start with an image of the Christmas decorations on Headrow followed by students raising their glasses to say cheers in a bar.)
Aastha: There’s something in Leeds for everyone, whatever you’re into.
(Images from the Leeds Comedy Club, Hyde Park Picture House and Cottage Road Cinema are shown, rotating in time with the voice over.)
Phoebe: Comedy nights, Independent cinemas!
(Images from IF rooftop, a band at Live at Leeds, Back to Basics in Millennium Square, Leeds Festival and Leeds Pride are shown in time with the voice over.)
Holly: Roof top hang outs, live music, summer concerts, festivals and carnivals.
(Aeron is walking down New Briggate, with the busy Headrow behind him.
A series of images then rotate on screen showing the First Direct Arena, Belgrave Music Hall And Canteen, Headrow House, O2 Academy and Brudenell Social Club.)
Aeron: From massive arena bands to catching the next big thing at some of the best indie venues around.
(Clemens is now walking down the steps outside the Leeds Art Gallery.)
Clemens: Or for something more arty and cultural…
(The film returns to showcasing a range of images on-screen, starting with a close up of a window with the Leeds Art Gallery signage, the Henry Moore sculpture: Reclining Woman: Elbow in the Leeds Art Gallery and finally, the Leeds International Piano Competition at Leeds Town Hall.)
Joey: Leeds Art Gallery, Opera North,
(Images  outside Leeds Playhouse, a Pantomime performance from the Carriageworks Theatre, a knight and horse exhibit from the Royal Armouries Museum and Thackray Museum of Medicine are shown before we return to see Holly, who is now sat enjoying a coffee and croissant in the Tiled Hall Café in the Leeds Art Gallery.)
Holly: Leeds Playhouse and loads of amazing museums, galleries and creative spaces.
(An on-screen text exchange graphic between two students appears on screen, asking one if they’re hungry, what do the fancy, followed by a host of various different food emojis.
We then see Phoebe coming out of Poco Sicilian Street Food on Otley Road with her order.)
Phoebe: The food here is really good too.
(Imagery appears on screen showing a close up paper bag with a food order from Poco Sicilian Street Food, bowls of food from Bundobust, food and drinks at Nam Song and a plate of food from Tharavadu.
We then see a series of footage showcasing the outside of Banh and Mee street kitchen, De Baga Indian restaurant, Chop Chop noodles and rice fast food kitchen, Lupe’s Cantina authentic Mexican Cuisine and a Maneki-neko in a restaurant window.)
Aastha: There’s a culinary adventure for everyone, from everywhere.
(Aeron is now on-screen, coming down the steps out of Trinity Leeds shopping centre.)
Aeron: And you’re in the right place for retail therapy.
Check out big brands in Victoria Leeds and Trinity,
(Images and footage from inside Victoria Leeds and Trinity Leeds shopping centres are shown on-screen.)
Aeron: Quirky places in the Corn Exchange and the Headrow,
(Footage and images on-screen from inside the Corn Exchange, the Plant Point shop, Chinese Laundry clothing shop, students Samantha and Faith walking down through Victoria Gate.
Aeron: Plus loads of hidden gems around the city.
(We return to footage and images that celebrate and showcase some of the hidden gems in the city including Crash Records – including a pop up Google review graphic, Hyde Park Book Club, Hold Fast Bookshop, The Canary, The Vinyl Whistle and the Leeds Dock Water Taxi.)
Joey: and for that ‘Leeds Uni ’ look, go vintage.
(Footage of Leeds students walking in the city centre are shown, followed by some popular vintage shops including Best and Blue Rinse.
Joey: How do I look?
(A phone appears on-screen, with an Instagram style post of a Leeds student stood in front of the camera showcasing a vintage Leeds Uni look.
The post swipes up and is replaced by another Instagram post, with Phoebe sat in a park with Joe, before the images swipe on screen through various parks or countryside pictures.)
Phoebe: Like to hang out in the great outdoors?
(Aeron is now walking through Park Square in the centre of Leeds.)
Aeron: There are SO MANY green spaces here.
(The screen cuts to footage of students sat on the grass in Woodhouse Moor, the Himalayan Gardens at Harewood House (credit Harewood House Trust and Lee Beel), Park Square and Roundhay Park before returning to more footage of students playing football and having a picnic in Woodhouse Moor.)
Samantha: Seriously, SO many - you’d need a whole film just to talk about the parks.
(Student Mason is sat in the park with Fatema and friends, before we see images of Harewood House, Ilkley Moor and the Terrace and surrounding land at Harewood House.)
Mason: And Leeds is surrounded by some truly stunning countryside.
(Images of a bus stop at Hyde Park Corner and two scenes showing Leeds buses travelling through Leeds are shown.)
Samantha: Just jump on a bus, and head out into the wilds.
(Fatema is walking down a street in Headingley with a water bottle in her hand, which she throws off screen.)
Fatema: Or keep it local.
(We see Mason in Kirkstall Abbey, who catches the water bottle thrown in the previous scene by Fatema.)
Mason: and explore everything you could ever want, right here on your doorstep.
(We see a couple of shots of the ruins of Kirkstall Abbey, the Cistercian monastery.)
(A Google map graphic appears on-screen, on top of drone footage showing Leeds City Centre from Kirkstall Road.
The map shows the locations of both the city centre and University of Leeds, before plotting a ‘directions to home’ route from the centre to a fictional students house.)
Aastha: Like anywhere – when you get here, Leeds can feel big and strange,
(Phoebe appears on-screen and is sat at a table outside Hyde Park Corner with Fatema, Joey and Michal, eating some food.)
Phoebe: but give yourself a little time to settle in, and it’ll soon feel like home....
for who knows how long.
(We cut to Aeron, Sherry, Faith and Samantha, stood outside on the terrace at the IF rooftop bar, with the clock tower of the Leeds Town Hall in the background.)
Aeron: So this is my Leeds.
How will you make it yours?
(The footage switches to a final drone shot of Leeds, flying over Knight’s Way Bridge and the River Aire, towards the city centre.)
The video ends with the message: “Join our student community” and a link to find out more at: www.leeds.ac.uk .)

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/international-visas-immigration/doc/immigration-advice-service:
Our Student Visa Advice service has qualified immigration advisers with up to date knowledge of changes to immigration law, so it is the only place on campus where you should ask questions about immigration.
Please do not ask your friends or staff in your department for visa advice.
Our Student Visa Advisers can answer questions about Student visas and immigration at any stage of the Student visa process.
Find more information about the Student Visa Advice service and the help we can provide on the Students website.
If you are applying for a Student visa to come to the UK, please read the information about applying for a Student visa first.
If you have a question, or would like us to check your visa application, please email the Student Visa Advice service via studentvisaadvice@leeds.ac.uk .
Do not forget to put your name and Student ID number on any correspondence.
Please ask your questions early, before the issue becomes urgent.
If you are making a Student visa extension application in the UK, a Student Visa Adviser can check this for you before you submit it – please see our information about extending your visa .
Please note: any information you share with our Student Visa Advisers may be shared with other University departments.
Our advisers are happy to discuss this further with you.
We believe the information contained in this website is correct at the time of publication.
For further information, please ensure that you refer to the relevant guidance and application forms from the UK Home Office when you apply.
The University is not responsible for the content of external webpages or information published by government bodies.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate/dir-record/profiles/15293/robert-bruce:
Video transcript: University of Leeds graduate - Robert Bruce
We had great guest speakers, industry experts and alumni on campus to give us lectures, run workshops and talk to us about career progression.
I had access to the Leeds Student Radio studios, allowing me to develop my craft, and my work placements let me build essential industry experience.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate/doc/video-transcript-study-abroad-university-leeds-ben-barrett:
Transcript for the video embedded on the undergraduate study abroad page and the Ben Barrett profile page .
[Music playing]
[Aerial shot of rows of tropical trees.]
[Footage of Ben Barrett running along a beach carrying an Australian flag.]
[Ben Barrett walks on the University of Leeds campus, surrounded by buildings.]
Ben: Going on a year abroad was perhaps the primary driver behind me wanting to go to University.
[Ben appears facing the camera, with University buildings in the background.
The name ‘Ben Barrett’ appears as text on the screen, alongside the University of Leeds logo.
Ben: I didn’t think that I would have the same opportunity if I didn’t attend University.
[Various wide and close up shots of Ben walking past buildings on the University of Leeds campus.]
Ben: I knew from the beginning when I first opened the prospectus that Leeds had a Study Abroad programme available to any student in the UK.
[Aerial footage, speeded up, of Ben walking on a green path, surrounded by greenery, on the University of Leeds campus.]
[Aerial footage of a group of people in a circle looking up.]
Ben: I think we all have this kind of projection in our head as to what Australia would be like.
By and large, that’s fairly true.
You think of beaches, you think of surfing, you think of barbecues on the beach.
It certainly did live up to that expectation.
[A variety of shots including, green tropical trees, a turquoise sea and beach, people adding logs and sticks to a fire in a metal fire pit, and Ben jumping up in the air for a picture, on a vast white sandy beach, with mountains in the background.]
Ben: In and around Adelaide there were loads of things to be doing on the weekend.
[Ben walks past buildings on the University of Leeds campus and towards a set of steps.]
Ben: We were going to the mountains, to the beaches.
[Footage of a mountain range surrounded by forest and two waterfalls flowing down a rocky cliff.]
Ben: You make so many friends from all different countries.
[Ben walks up some steps on the University of Leeds campus.]
Ben: So just being able to spend some time with those guys and just to experience new things with them, really exciting new things is an opportunity that you wouldn’t necessarily get ever again if you don’t study abroad.
[Various shots, speeded up, of Ben sitting on the University of Leeds campus, overlooking a small lake, surrounded by buildings.]
[Speeded up footage of Ben walking along a corridor in a building at the University of Leeds.]
Ben: You learn so much in terms of skills and experiences when you're on your exchange because everything is just fundamentally so different to what you are used to.
[Footage of a turquoise sea and coastline with green vegetation and rockery.]
Ben: Confidence or resilience or independence moving forwards.
These are all kind of really important skills that you need when you actually go into the working world.
[Various shots of Ben sitting in the Edit Room café on the University of Leeds campus having a drink and looking at a laptop, surrounded by other people.]
Ben: It was the first time that I'd become completely independent of everything else.
[A person on a sailboat on the sea, with the sun going down behind mountains in the background.]
Ben: You learn to embrace so many different cultures and whole new way of living.
I don’t know necessarily that you are gonna be in that same scenario again where everything’s new and you’re pushed to the end of your comfort zone.
[Cutaway to Ben and another person on a sailboat.]
[Footage of a sailboat, sailing past mountains, with the sun setting in the background.]
[Ben stands in a line with several other people to pull a rope on a sailboat, with other people sat around watching.]
Ben: It helped me become more kind of confident in myself and just to be confident around other people who I had never met before.
[Back to Ben on the University of Leeds campus.
Walking on campus and looking at study abroad trip photos on a laptop and smiling.]
Ben: I ended up having, definitely, the best year of my life.
[Ben smiles as he looks at a laptop.]
[A white box appears on a red background and then disappears to reveal the University of Leeds logo in white.]

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/transcripts/doc/video-transcript-work-experience-university-leeds-demetra-brady:
Transcript for the video embedded on the undergraduate work experience page .
[Footage of the Parkinson Building at the University of Leeds.]
[Demetra Brady appears on screen walking in the University of Leeds Brotherton library, reading a book.
Demetra’s name appears as text on the screen.]
Demetra: Leeds played a really big part in helping me get my undergraduate placement year, and they supported me through the process not only in securing the placement but also whilst I was on placement.
[Demetra walks alongside the River Thames looking towards the London skyline.]
Demetra: At IBM, I was specialising in digital strategy consulting.
[Demetra walks towards an IBM building.]
Demetra: We were helping companies to grow through the strategic use of technology.
[Demetra sits at a table, in front of a large screen, with a laptop, talking with a group of people.]
Demetra: Sometimes I’d go to client sites, so I was working at Wimbledon for two weeks over the championships, talking to potential IBM clients and members of the public.
[Footage of the Wimbledon tennis courts and marquees.]
[Demetra at Wimbledon talking to people.]
Demetra: This was really important for me as a step in my career of having this responsibility.
Demetra: I have been offered a place in the IBM Graduate Programme.
It means that I can focus on my studies this year and look forward to joining a job I really enjoy pursuing.
Demetra: Being able to use the skills that I’ve learned at university at a global organisation has been really rewarding.
[Demetra sits in the Brotherton Library at the University of Leeds looking through a book.]
Demetra: It’s helped me to grow professionally and personally, and it’s also set me up for the rest of my career.
[Demetra stands smiling in front of an IBM sign.]
[A white box appears on a turquoise background with the text ‘Think’ inside the box and ‘Beyond’ underneath the box.
The University of Leeds logo also appears in white.]

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/masters/dir-record/profiles/15074/edoardo-bono:
I completed my Masters in Water, Sanitation and Health Engineering at the University in 2017.
Since graduating I have returned to campus to talk to current engineering students about my mission and the project I’m carrying out in Madagascar through the Help for Optimism (H40) charity.
I first visited the Madagascan island of Nosy Komba in 2011.
The stunning scenery, biodiversity and warmth of the people drew me to return.
But it was soon clear to me there was a need to improve basic sanitation.
For my undergraduate dissertation I designed a sanitation programme to build household toilets in a sustainable, replicable manner.
I knew my work in Madagascar couldn’t end with my dissertation though, so I founded Help for Optimism  (H40) , a non-governmental organisation which aims to contribute to the resilience and development of vulnerable communities.
In the last couple of years three Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) engineering students have written dissertations about H4O projects and had a direct positive impact on our work.
I studied my Masters at Leeds to develop my competency as a WASH engineer.
I chose Leeds because of the school’s reputation and because the programme leader, Professor Barbara Evans, is a world-renowned expert in sanitation, hygiene and water services.
The empirical approach of the course also fitted well with my pragmatic mindset.
The scope of H4O’s work has grown a lot since we started.
From our initial focus on sanitation projects, we developed a hygiene products lab, which produces the first toothpaste made in Madagascar and sold in the local community and a disinfectant soap, supplied to medical staff at a local hospital.
We’ve also run hygiene workshops in schools and we’re producing bio chocolate bars from raw cocoa beans.
Three pillars underpin all our projects: improving health conditions, expanding local skills and competencies and creating economically sustainable enterprises.
We want to take a longer-term, global development approach, which leads to long-term improvements for the community.
During my Masters I received a cash grant from the University’s Leeds for Life Foundation, and H40 was named its volunteering project of the year for 2016.
Both these things helped to build the profile and momentum of the work.
The charity also had international recognition and won the Student Big Ideas Award at the WASH Futures 2018 Conference in Brisbane.
My former professors accepted the award on my behalf and I came to Leeds to collect it.
Now I hope to return to the University to study a PhD, which would be based on H4O’s work, but would also extend it, so our learning would be helpful for development projects elsewhere.
When I talk to current students, I tell them, if you’ve an idea and passion, develop this.
Gain specialist knowledge and you can turn it into reality!

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/volunteerstories:
Discover opportunities to enhance your personal and professional development while studying at Leeds.
Find out how our students and postgraduate researchers are playing an active part in the community by volunteering, while gaining valuable skills and experience.
Our vision is for all students to have the opportunity to play an active part in their community, and to develop the skills and attributes that make them successful graduates with the motivation, experience and potential to have a positive impact in wider society.
Find out how Maryam took part in the Intercultural Ambassadors Programme and arranged a raft of activities for older people in Leeds.
Learn how Priya has sharpened her interpersonal skills while gaining practical experience in leadership by volunteering with Burmantofts Community Friends.
Learn about Eleanor's involvement with the Repair Café, where she helps the community by repairing items and promoting sustainability.
Meet the group that provides volunteering, campaigning and fundraising opportunities in support of refugees, with the aim to spread awareness, gain support and create change.
Discover how Tanvi applied her art skills to foster community engagement and representation through a mural project in the Junior Sport Hub.
Discover how Thackray Medical Museum gave Felipe the opportunity to develop transferable skills that are helping in his PhD studies and beyond.
As part of her work with Leeds Student Radio, Carys volunteered with Societies Into Schools to give young people the opportunity to present an outside broadcast.
Discover how Stephanie's volunteering at a forest school has enriched her university experience, boosted her confidence, and supported her aspiration to become an educational psychologist.
By volunteering with IntoUniversity, Heathcliff is learning from and connecting with diverse individuals – expanding his perspective and empathy while supporting a new generation of students.
Helen took a step in a new direction with a degree at Leeds.
Now she volunteers as a Lifelong Learning Champion to help others get back into education.
Discover how Tracy's volunteering in South Africa with Gryphons Abroad empowered children through sports and leadership activities.
Through volunteering, Jake has worked with top-level, critical coaches that have assisted in his football development.
Discover how Nilu has gained valuable experience by volunteering in a school to help young people develop their volleyball skills.
Alex co-founded a society to raise awareness about mental health and suicide prevention in the local community.
Find out how she's helped to support those who need it most.
Honey has gained marketing experience while volunteering with Candlelighters, a charity that offers emotional, practical and financial support for those affected by childhood cancer.
While volunteering for Healthwatch Leeds, Lily gained critical work experience and discovered what she wanted to do as a career.
Find out more about student volunteering opportunities

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/language-centre/doc/language-zone:
The Language Zone gives you access to free resources to help you learn a language.
Providing learning material in more than 50 languages, the Language Zone is open to all students and staff at the University.
You can access learning materials from our Language Zone in different languages, including English.
As well as a study space and resource centre on campus, we offer online advice and digital resources.
Take a 360 degree tour of the Language Zone.
We have a range of workshops and activities to help you practise and improve your language skills.
Our groups meet regularly to practise the languages they are studying.
You could also communicate with a native speaker of the language you're learning as part of our language exchange.
There is always a member of staff in the Language Zone to help you access resources or give advice.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/language-centre/doc/undergraduate-pre-sessional-english:
Study a pre-sessional course to improve your English language level and prepare for your undergraduate degree.
We offer pre-sessional English courses during the academic year, starting in September/October and January.
Courses also take place over the summer, from June to September.
The length of course you need depends on your current level of English and on the level required for your degree.
Watching in China?
View on Bilibili
Studying an undergraduate pre-sessional at Leeds video transcript
If you have an English qualification that isn’t IELTS (International English Language Testing System), see our entry requirements page for other English qualifications we accept.
You need:
Pre-sessional English for Undergraduate Studies (10 teaching weeks – starting in July or
Online Academic English Pre-sessional (10 weeks – starting in June)
Pre-sessional English for Undergraduate Studies (6 teaching weeks - starting in July) or
Online Academic English Pre-sessional (6 weeks – starting in June)
Pre-sessional English for Undergraduate Studies (10 teaching weeks – starting in July) or
Online Academic English Pre-sessional (10 weeks – starting in May)
You need:​
Online Academic English pre-sessional (6 weeks – starting in June)
Pre-sessional English for Undergraduate Studies (10 teaching weeks – starting in July)
Pre-sessional English for Undergraduate Studies (two semesters – starting in September) or
Pre-sessional English for Undergraduate Studies (one semester plus summer – starting in January)
Pre-sessional English for Undergraduate Studies (one semester – starting in September) or
Pre-sessional English for Undergraduate Studies (one semester – starting in January) or
Pre-sessional English for Undergraduate Studies 10 teaching weeks (link available in September 2025)
Online Academic English Pre-sessional 10 week (link available in September 2025)
Pre-sessional English for Undergraduate Studies 6 teaching weeks (link available in September 2025)
Online Academic English Pre-sessional 6 week (link available in September 2025)
Pre-sessional English for Undergraduate Studies 10 teaching weeks  (link available in September 2025) or
Online Academic English Pre-sessional 10 week (link available in September 2025)
Pre-sessional English for Undergraduate Studies 6 teaching weeks (link available in September 2025
Online Academic English Pre-sessional 6 week (link available in September 2025)
Pre-sessional English for Undergraduate Studies 10 teaching weeks (link available in September 2025) or
Online Academic English pre-sessional 10 weeks (link available in September 2025)
Pre-sessional English for Undergraduate Studies 6 teaching weeks (link available in September 2025) or
Online Academic English pre-sessional 6 week (link available in September 2025)
Pre-sessional English for Undergraduate Studies (one semester – starting in January)
If you have any questions, please email the Language Centre via pre-sessional@leeds.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-offer/doc/confirming-place-frequently-asked-questions:
Find out the answers to frequently asked questions (FAQs) about results day at the University of Leeds.
Once you have your results, log in to UCAS to see if you’ve been accepted.
You don’t need to do anything further at this stage.
We’ll email you to confirm your place and let you know your next steps after confirming your place .
If no decision is visible on UCAS, this is typically because we’re still waiting to receive confirmation of your exam results, or Leeds was your insurance choice and we’re waiting for your firm choice institution to update your record.
If you’ve met or exceeded the conditions of your offer, your place with us is secure.
In some cases, we may still be able to accept you if you narrowly miss your conditions, or we may offer you a place on an alternative course.
If we’re not able to accept you, discuss your options with your school or college.
This might include searching Clearing courses at other institutions, taking a year out, appealing your grades or resitting an exam.
For clinical courses within the schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Healthcare, we must receive your re-marked or appealed results by 31 August 2025.
For other courses, the deadline is 3 September 2025.
If you meet the conditions of your offer by the relevant date, we’ll typically hold your place for you, but we can’t guarantee that you’ll be accepted for 2025 entry if the course is full.
If you haven’t met the requirements for the course you’ve applied for, we may have offered you a place on an alternative course that we think might interest you.
You can find further information about this course on our website.
If you’d like to discuss this change of course, please refer to the details in your offer email.
It’s not possible to swap your replies on results day.
You’ll need to decline your firm offer in UCAS and come to us through Clearing, if we have space on your course.
This will depend on the course you’re planning to study.
To check if a change of start date is possible, email the relevant admissions team.

New sentences found on https://leeds.ac.uk/undergraduate-offer/doc/already-have-exam-results:
If you know your exam results, find out what’s next after your place at Leeds is confirmed.
If you’ve met the requirements of your offer from us and we’re your firm choice, you’ll receive a confirmation email within days of receiving your results.
We’re really looking forward to welcoming you and helping you to settle into University life.
Practical information and advice to help you prepare for joining us at Leeds.
If you’re joining us this September, we’ll be in touch via email from late August with information to help you plan what to do next.
If you’ve deferred your place and are planning to study with us next year, we’ll be in touch with you the August before you start your studies.
We’ll give you information about:
When you hear back about which residence you’ve been allocated depends on when you applied.
Find out more on our accommodation website .
If you’re planning to commute to the University, make sure you join the Leeds University Union Commuters’ Society .
Before you receive your welcome information there are things you can do now to help you prepare.
If you are an international student planning to come to Leeds on a Student visa, you will need a CAS (Confirmation of Acceptance of Studies).
We will contact you about your CAS and you don't need to do take any action to request this.
We encourage you to visit our Student visa pages so that you can prepare the documentation you will need for your visa application whilst you wait to receive your CAS.
If you’re from the UK and wish to receive government funding you should apply for this now, if you’re eligible and haven’t done so already.
More information is on the GOV.UK student finance webpage .
Consider how you’ll pay your tuition fees if you’re self-funding.
Your welcome information will tell you how and when to make your payment.
Don’t bring large sums of cash into the UK if you’re coming from overseas; all fee payments are electronic.
Beware of fraudulent payment requests.
If you’re not sure if a communication from the University is genuine then please contact the Undergraduate Fees team at UGfees@leeds.ac.uk to check.
To help with your arrival and registration, ensure you have easy access to: