# Site: https://www.lincoln.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 500
# --------

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk:
Awarded Gold in the national Teaching Excellence Framework 2023
Awarded Silver for Mental Health and Wellbeing Support in the Whatuni Student Choice Awards 2025
Named the most affordable student city in the UK in the NatWest Student Living Index 2025
World top 150 university in the Times Higher Education Young University Rankings 2024
Whichever course you choose, you can be confident that you are joining a university that places the quality of the student experience at the heart of everything it does.
Study at Lincoln
Explore Lincoln for Yourself
The best way to find out what it's like to study at Lincoln is to visit us at one of our on-campus events.
Exploring our campus and city for yourself will help you to get a real feel for what it might be like to study here.
One of the world’s great historic cities, Lincoln is renowned for its fusion of old and new.
This rich variety of attractions, activities, and amenities, makes it a fantastic place to live.
Discover the City
Welcome Week
All the important information you need, including the essential and recommended tasks to complete before you arrive.
10am-3pm
9am-3pm
4pm-6pm
+44 (0)1522 882000
Maps and Directions
University of Lincoln

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus:
We are delighted that you are considering joining our academic community here at the University of Lincoln.
Everything we do is geared towards giving our students the best experience possible.
Whether you are thinking about coming to study or undertake research with us, you can be confident that you are joining a university that places the quality of the student experience at the heart of everything it does.
Benefit from placement opportunities on many of our taught programmes
Opportunities to work alongside academic staff on research projects
Strong industry links help to inform course content and provide opportunities to hear from guest speakers
A range of exciting opportunities to study, work, and volunteer abroad
At Lincoln we offer a wide range of undergraduate, postgraduate, and flexible learning programmes.
You can find out more about the different study options available by searching all of our courses or visiting our dedicated pages below.
Whichever stage of your academic journey you are on, our expert staff are on hand to help you find the right course for you and answer any questions you might have about studying at Lincoln.
The University of Lincoln offers a wide range of full-time and part-time undergraduate degree programmes across a wide range of subjects.
Search for your perfect course and find out more about how to apply.
Postgraduate study is an investment in yourself and your future.
It can help you to further or completely change your career, develop your knowledge, enhance your salary, or even prepare you to start your own business.
From short courses and microcredentials, to professional development modules and fully online Master’s degrees, we offer a range of flexible programmes to suit your individual needs.
Download a digital copy of one of our prospectuses or order a free physical copy direct to your door.
Explore Our Subject Hubs
Find out more about our subject areas, courses, research, and academic experts on our subject hubs.
We offer a wide range of subjects across the arts, sciences, social sciences, and humanities.
As an institution, equality of opportunity in higher education locally, regionally, and nationally, is a key part of who we are.
Explore how we are supporting underrepresented groups in accessing and being successful in higher education.
Studying in the UK can be life changing and we are delighted that you are considering joining the University of Lincoln.
To help you prepare, our international webpages contain important information regarding our entry requirements, tuition fees and scholarships, and submitting your application to study with us.
Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) 2023
The University of Lincoln is one of a select group of universities to achieve the top Gold rating overall and in both aspect ratings for student experience and student outcomes in the national Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) 2023.
The QS Stars™ rating system evaluates universities across a wide range of important performance indicators as set against pre-established international standards.
Set against the backdrop of a beautiful and historic city, the University of Lincoln sits at the heart of it all on the picturesque Brayford Pool waterfront, with almost everything you’ll need either on campus or just a short walk away.
We’ve invested around £400 million in our Brayford Pool Campus over the last two decades to create the best possible learning environment and a strong foundation to help you achieve your goals.
No matter which course you choose, we aim to provide you with high-quality facilities and the latest equipment.
Computer science, engineering, and mathematics and physics students call the Isaac Newton Building their home.
It oﬀers access to workshops and computer laboratories, an electrical systems laboratory, and a biofuels laboratory.
It also houses industry-standard machinery, turbines, and additional teaching and research laboratories.
The University’s Great Central Warehouse Library gives you access to more than 260,000 journals and 750,000 print and electronic books, as well as databases and specialist collections.
The library is open seven days a week at key times during the academic year, so is available when you need it most.
Our Sarah Swift Building is home to a range of clinical suites, designed to simulate hospital wards and home settings.
You also have access to specialist psychology facilities, including a sleep laboratory, motor lab, and EEG laboratories.
Lincoln Arts Centre provides a hub of creative performance where students can learn and practise their art in the 450-seat professional working theatre, large industry-standard studio spaces, and a workshop for building sets and props.
Our brand-new, purpose-built Ross Lucas Medical Sciences Building features lecture theatres, laboratories, a clinical skills suite with consultation rooms, a prosection anatomy suite, and a bio-medical and health sciences library.
Based at our Riseholme Campus, Lincoln Insitute for Agri-food Technology researchers are engaged in the development of technologies which add value or solve challenges across the food chain, working with partners in industry and academia locally, nationally, and internationally.
The National Centre for Food Manufacturing, based at our Holbeach Campus, is committed to helping the food industry innovate, aided by partnerships with leading equipment suppliers and provision of specialist facilities including a food factory, and cutting-edge automation.
Our Approach to Teaching and Learning
At Lincoln, we emphasise the role of our students as collaborators in the production of knowledge.
Our Student as Producer initiate aims to encourage our academics and students to collaborate on research activities during their studies.
Our approach is committed to learning through doing and we offer a range of opportunities to put this into practice, including the well-established Undergraduate Research Opportunities Scheme (UROS).

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/undergraduatestudy:
Each year, we welcome thousands of students to study for an undergraduate degree at Lincoln.
Whether you want to focus your studies on a topic you enjoy, improve your job prospects, gain valuable employability skills, or develop your independence and self-confidence, Lincoln offers a great place for our students to live and learn.
Top 5 in the Halls and Student Accommodation category in the Whatuni Student Choice Awards 2025
Ranked in the top 50 overall in the UK in the Guardian University Guide 2025
We offer a huge range of undergraduate degree programmes at Lincoln, from Accountancy to Zoology.
With over 150 courses to choose from, we're confident you will find the right degree for you.
Find out more about what you can expect while studying an undergraduate degree.
Take a look at all of the information you need to know when applying to university.
Find out more about options for funding your studies, including our range of scholarships and bursaries.
At Lincoln, we put our students at the heart of everything we do.
It's important to know that you're not alone and that we're here to support you through every step of your journey with us.
Placements are a fantastic way to learn industry best practice and gain relevant work experience to help you after graduation.
At Lincoln, we have partnerships with local and national organisations to deliver a variety of quality placement options.
University life is also about so much more than just studying.
That’s why everything we do is geared towards giving you the best student experience possible, from our excellent support services offering help with academic and personal matters, to our vibrant Students' Union which has over 100 sports teams and societies for you to make friends and get involved.
At Lincoln, we're proud of our reputation for providing a high quality student experience both inside and outside of the classroom.
Lincoln offers plenty of activities to keep you entertained, from live music, sport, and events, to arts, culture, and heritage.
We understand that your university accommodation is so much more than just a place to live.
All of our University-managed accommodation is either on campus or a short distance away.
Want to know what it is really like to study at the University of Lincoln?
Register with our Unibuddy platform and send a message to one of our friendly student ambassadors.
Remember, we're here to support you at every stage of your journey to Lincoln.
Contact Us

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/postgraduatestudy:
Lincoln is a unique place to live and learn.
It's where curiosity and collaboration take centre stage; a place where students feel at home and are able to achieve their goals and aspirations as part of a welcoming and supportive community.
Our blend of exciting postgraduate programmes, world-leading researchers, expert academics, and high-quality facilities provides you with a wealth of opportunities to expand your knowledge and unlock your full potential.
Where will your curiosity lead you?
Ranked 2nd in the UK for Postgraduate at the WhatUni Student Choice Awards 2024
The chance to work with internationally recognised academics and researchers
Ranked in the top 10 in the UK for postgraduate support in the Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024
79% internationally excellent or world-leading research in the REF 2021
Find out more about postgraduate life at Lincoln and why the University is the ideal place to take those next exciting steps on your personal or professional journey.
We offer scholarships and allowances, in addition to the Government’s postgraduate loans, and our Alumni Scholarship can reduce fees by up to 20% for UK students.
Once you have chosen the right programme for you, you can make an application via the course pages on our website.
You can find out more out about studying at Lincoln by visiting us at one of our many events or by speaking to our dedicated Postgraduate Team.
Study with us in
Applications are now open for a wide range of Master’s programmes which will begin at the University of Lincoln in January 2026.
Visit our January webpage to find out more about the programmes we have available, our wide range of scholarships, and beginning your journey to Lincoln.
Indulge your curiosity and get a taste of what studying at Lincoln could be like with our Meet the Master’s lecture series.
Our expert academics are delivering bitesize lectures on topics ranging from politics to poisons, introducing you to some of the concepts and ideas you could be exploring during your Master's degree.
Taught Programmes
Our taught programmes are structured in a similar way to undergraduate study, with a set timetable of lectures and seminars.
The courses include taught modules that are individually assessed, and an individual research-based project supervised by an academic with expertise in the subject .
F ull-time programmes normally take 12 months to complete.
Some programmes are conversion courses , so you can explore a completely new subject without prior study in the area.
Find out more on our course pages.
Research Degrees
For students wanting to focus on a speciﬁc area of study and make an original contribution to knowledge, we offer a range of research degrees, including an MA/MSc by Research, MPhil, and PhD.
A significant proportion of your time will be spent in independent study during these programmes, and y our research is conducted under the supervision of experienced academics with specialist knowledge.
What is a Research Degree?
You can find out more about the University of Lincoln and the different postgraduate courses we offer in our Postgraduate Prospectus.
We oﬀer a range of alternative and ﬂexible approaches to study, including online Master’s degrees, short courses, and distance-learning programmes that can help to boost your career prospects and give you the opportunities to develop new skills.
All of our accommodation is either on campus or a short distance away, which means that almost everything you could need is right on your doorstep, and there are plenty of options to suit different needs and budgets.
One of the world's great historic cities, Lincoln is renowned for its fusion of old and new, seamlessly blending medieval heritage with modern city living.
Set against the backdrop of this beautiful city, the University sits at the heart of it all on the picturesque Brayford Pool waterfront.
University life is about more than just studying.
That’s why everything we do is geared towards giving you the best student experience possible.
Lincoln offers plenty of activities to keep you entertained, from socialising, sports and shopping, to culture, castles, and countryside pursuits.
Our entertainment venues showcase the best in live music, comedy, theatre, and offer a packed schedule of University events.
Already got your postgraduate application in?
Visit our Applicants and Offer Holders page to find out what you need to do next and how we can continue supporting you throughout the process.
University of Lincoln Brayford Pool Campus Lincoln LN6 7TS
pgenquiries@lincoln.ac.uk
+44 (0)1522 886644

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents:
You can also find out more information about our upcoming virtual events and how to take part, connecting with our current students, and how to contact us.
Awarded Gold in the national Teaching Excellence Framework 2023 and a five-star score overall in the QS Stars rating 2023
Lincoln is regarded as one of England’s great historic cities, and was named the UK’s most affordable student city in the NatWest Student Living Index 2025
Clearing offers another opportunity to find a space on your dream undergraduate course at the University of Lincoln this September.
Clearing is now open.
The University of Lincoln offer a wide range of undergraduate, postgraduate, and flexible learning programmes.
Whichever stage of your academic journey you are on, our expert staff are here to help you achieve your potential.
Explore Our Courses
Before you begin your studies, you will need to meet our academic and English language entrance requirements.
To find out more information relevant to your region or country, visit our dedicated country pages.
Find Your Country
After you have decided which course you would like to study, it’s important to begin thinking about your budget.
Head over to the page below to find out more information about our tuition fees, the cost of living, and our range of international scholarships.
Fees and Funding
Studying in the UK may be a little different to what it is like in your home country.
The University of Lincoln offers a wide range of programmes and services to help you prepare for that transition in a supportive and friendly environment.
From meeting your offer conditions to applying for your visa, our Information for Offer Holders webpage is packed full of information and advice to help you prepare for the start of your studies here at the University of Lincoln.
Based in the heart of Lincoln’s city centre, most of our student accommodation at the University of Lincoln is on our Brayford Pool Campus or just a short distance away.
Accommodation Options
Visit our Applying to Lincoln page to find out more information about our admissions process, submitting your application, and starting your journey to the University of Lincoln.
Applying to Lincoln
If you are curious about what it’s like to study at the University of Lincoln we recommend chatting with those who know it best – our students.
From sharing their experiences to answering your questions, our student ambassadors are available online to chat to about what it’s like to be part of our community.
Contact a Student
The University of Lincoln offers a range of on demand webinars tailored for international students preparing to study in the UK.
Topics include applying for a CAS and Student visa, finding accommodation, understanding the cost of living, budgeting, and working part-time as a student.
Additional sessions cover life in Lincoln, the Graduate visa process, and post-study work opportunities.
This is a great opportunity to learn about living and studying in Lincoln on your schedule.
+44 (0)1522 308108
Enquiry Form

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/flexiblelearning:
Our suite of programmes uses a variety of delivery methods, including online only, face-to-face, blended, and distance-learning approaches.
Flexible learning is becoming an increasingly popular way for busy professionals to stay ahead in their chosen field.
Studying one of our programmes can help boost your career prospects, give you the opportunity to develop new skills, advance your knowledge in a particular field, or allow you to pursue your passion in an area of personal interest.
Our flexible delivery methods allow you to complete our programmes around your own schedule, whether that be through online learning from home, on-campus delivery with multiple start options throughout the year, or on-the-job learning through a work-based programme or apprenticeship.
We have developed a range of short courses covering a variety of subject areas and disciplines, including business, education, health, languages, media, food, and agriculture.
A number of our courses are professionally accredited so you can receive a certificate upon successful completion.
The University of Lincoln provides a range of fully online programmes designed to help fit teaching and learning around your other commitments.
These include our flexible, bite-sized courses, known as 'microcredentials', as well as a range of fully online Master's degrees.
These programmes can be studied entirely from the comfort of your own home, with support available from our expert staff.
Explore our suite of interesting microcredentials.
These short, certification-style courses are designed to give you new skills and insights into specific topics including equality, leadership, marketing, business, and finance.
At the University of Lincoln, we are collaborating with digital delivery experts, Future Learn, to offer an exciting range of online short courses.
Covering a broad range of topics, from creative writing to business leadership, these are courses designed to suit your schedule, your curiosity, and your ambitions.
Each course is led by an expert in that field, so you know you are getting the best insights into your chosen area.
Explore Future Learn
In addition to our regular short course and online programmes, we also offer a range of specialist professional development and training programmes for health and education professionals, business managers, and for former and serving military personnel.
Our Health and Wellbeing Hub offers post registration programmes and continuing professional development for qualified practitioners working across the health and social care sector.
We have expertise in a broad range of health and wellbeing areas with a portfolio developed over many years of partnership working closely with employers.
The University of Lincoln offers a range of programmes designed for full-time serving, reservist, and veteran members of the armed forces.
These include work-based distance learning programmes, specialist technical Master's programmes, and our 'Selborne' programmes for Royal Navy and Royal Marines personnel.
Our work-based distance learning programmes aim to help you to fit your studies around your existing work commitments.
Each programme allows you to build on your expertise and achieve a full degree by completing a range of work-based management activities.
These flexible programmes can be completed within 13-24 months.
Degree Apprenticeships offer students the chance to earn a salary while studying for a Bachelor's or Master's degree without paying tuition fees.
They allow you to work as an employee while you study part-time, combining university study with practical on-the-job experience, developing the employment skills needed for a successful career in your chosen field.
If you're not sure which programme best suits your needs, contact our friendly Enquiries Team at enquiries@lincoln.ac.uk and we'll try to help you find the course that's right for you.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/subjects:
The best way to find out more about the courses we offer is to visit us at one of our on-campus events.
Many of these offer the chance to speak to our academic staff and to meet students already studying your chosen course.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/opendaysandvisits:
Visiting us in person gives you the perfect opportunity to get a real feel for what it might be like to study here at Lincoln.
From Open Days and informal visits to Offer Holder Days and campus tours, we offer a range of options for you to discover Lincoln for yourself.
Whichever event you choose, we can't wait to welcome you to our beautiful Brayford Pool Campus.
Autumn 2025
The best way to experience all that Lincoln has to offer is to join us at our Undergraduate Open Days.
You can attend subject talks for the courses you are interested in, tour our award-winning accommodation and fantastic facilities, meet our expert academics, and explore our beautiful city.
Our Open Days are an ideal way to explore the University and the wider city, but we offer lots of other opportunities to visit us and find out more about living and learning at Lincoln.
If you're unable to attend a full Open Day, you can still find out more about the University, explore our accommodation, and take a tour around our campus during an Informal Visit Day.
Our 45-60 minute guided tours give you the chance to explore our spectacular city centre campus, including our industry-standard facilities and purpose-built accommodation.
We host a range of postgraduate events throughout the year, including Open Days and subject-specific sessions where you can find out more about your chosen course.
And you can book one-to-one calls or meetings with our Postgraduate Team, who also run regular drop-in sessions to help you navigate the application process.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studentlife:
At the University of Lincoln, you'll find fun, friends, and an exciting future in a historic city that never gets old.
Everything we do is geared towards giving you the best experience possible, from our excellent support services, which were ranked top 30 out of 130 UK universities in the National Student Survey 2024, to our Students' Union, which provides a wealth of exciting opportunities to get involved with.
Discover more about student life on our stunning and vibrant Brayford Pool Campus.
No matter which course you choose, we aim to provide you with high-quality facilities and the latest industry-standard equipment.
Our state-of-the-art facilities are interspersed with green spaces and wildlife as we aim to promote sustainability in all of our activities.
It's open seven days a week at key times during the academic year, so is available when you need it most.
The Students’ Union runs a variety of events throughout the year and operates several major on-campus venues which are popular hotspots for students during the day and at night.
For cosy quiz nights with your flatmates you’ll be heading to The Swan, while Towers has everything you’d expect from a bustling sports bar with big screens to watch major fixtures and an upstairs games zone to socialise in afterwards.
There really is something for everyone to enjoy right here on campus.
Lincoln Arts Centre hosts professional performances alongside student productions throughout the year.
The Engine Shed is Lincoln's largest live entertainment venue with a host of regular and one off club nights, including the student favourite Quack!
The Pier Cafe is located at the heart of our Brayford Pool Campus.
Grab a snack and a coffee and catch up with friends between your lectures.
The Swan is a homely pub in a prime location alongside the Brayford Pool for waterside food and drink for staff and students.
Towers is a hub of entertainment for staff and students, offering you food and drink while watching all your favourite sports.
Joining a sports club or society is a wonderful way to explore new interests or continue existing passions, all while socialising and improving your wellbeing.
We particularly want sports to be accessible and enjoyable for everyone and have a range of both casual and competitive activities available - check out our Sports at Lincoln page to see for yourself.
We understand that leaving home, starting university, and embarking on your future career is a big step, but at Lincoln, it’s not one you have to take alone.
From our support services to our Unibuddy platform, we aim to equip you with as much information and assurance as possible wherever you are in your student journey with us.
Our Student Support Centre, based on our Brayford Pool Campus, brings many of our support services together, providing a central point of contact to connect you with the appropriate team.
Do you have questions around student life at Lincoln?
Register with our Unibuddy platform and send a message to one of our friendly student ambassadors - they're happy to chat informally about all aspects of university life.
The best way to find out what it is really like to live and learn at Lincoln is to visit us at one of our on-campus events.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studentlife/supportivecommunity:
Studying at university can present academic and personal challenges, but it's important to know that you're not alone and that we're here to support you through every step of your journey with us.
We're proud to have been awarded Silver at the prestigious Whatuni Student Choice Awards 2025 in the Mental Health and Wellbeing Support category.
At Lincoln, we offer a host of specialist support services that span a wide range of areas, from mental health and expert advice in money matters, to guidance in academic writing and preparing for your ﬁrst graduate job interview.
Our Student Support Centre brings many of these services together, providing a central point of contact that can link you with the appropriate team.
Ranked in the top 30 out of 130 UK universities in the National Student Survey 2024 for our amazing academic, mental health, and wellbeing support
Received the Student Minds University Mental Health Charter Award for 2024
On-campus University Health Service providing convenient GP access
Dedicated Residence Life Team support in our University-managed accommodation
Taking care of your mental wellbeing and physical health are hugely important in order to get the most out of your time at Lincoln.
Wellbeing Support Services
We understand that as a student there can often be many different priorities to juggle such as your academic work, social life, independent study, part-time work, and more.
It is incredibly important that you are looking after your health and wellbeing in the process.
Our experienced advisors are on-hand to support you with mental health, disabilities, specific learning differences, long-standing conditions, distressing life events, and much more.
They can also help to make sure that reasonable adjustments are made to your studies if required.
We were one of the first universities to join the Student Minds University Mental Health Charter Programme and have received the Mental Health Charter Award for 2024, which recognises good practice and commitment to continuous improvement in mental health and wellbeing support.
We know that it's not possible for everyone to travel home to access healthcare, which is why we have an on-campus University Health Service providing convenient GP access and other health support to our students and staff.
The Health Service is located at the heart of our Brayford Pool Campus, meaning you are never far from getting the help you need.
You can register with the University Health Service as soon as you have enrolled at the University.
Julie Spencer, Head of Wellbeing at the University of Lincoln, was named in the New Years’ Honours list 2024 for her services to education.
She was awarded an MBE for being a constant champion of students and for her support of their physical and mental wellbeing.
I am incredibly passionate about my career and I feel it’s essential our students receive the best possible support.
Our team at Student Wellbeing always goes above and beyond, showing amazing levels of compassion.
Most of our students have never lived away from home before.
With this new experience at university comes new challenges, but o ur expert advice teams at Lincoln are here to make sure that you get the support and advice you need throughout your studies.
The Student Advice Team is an independent service located within the Student Support and Advice Centre.
They offer a free confidential and impartial legal service to all students at the University of Lincoln.
Advice covers a wide range of areas including finances, housing, employment, university issues such as interruption and extenuating circumstances.
In addition to the support from the University, the Students' Union offers their own independent advice service.
We offer a wealth of helpful information and advice covering all aspects of academic support at University.
Our specialist advisors are available to give professional, confidential, and impartial advice to all students.
Our friendly Residence Life Team is here to help you make the most of your new home at Lincoln.
We have a dedicated Multi-Faith Chaplaincy service offering pastoral care, a confidential listening ear, and spiritual support for all our students.
A number of interfaith rooms are available to use for prayer, meditation, or as a place of reflective space to take some quiet time out away from work or study.
There is also an interfaith library containing a small collection of religious books and magazines, along with various religious icons that can be borrowed for personal prayers.
Studying in another country can be challenging, from communicating in a new language and adapting to different ways of learning, to making new friends and socialising.
We have lots of support available to our overseas students to help them settle-in.
Our Careers and Employability Team is on hand to oﬀer individual support and advice, answering your queries and helping you to develop practical employment skills, such as building your CV and preparing for interviews.
They can support you in the search for placements and work experience, part-time jobs, and full-time employment after graduating.
A variety of employability advice and support workshops are delivered during the academic year, along with a range of events such as the annual University of Lincoln Careers Fair and employer sessions, which give students the opportunity to engage with top graduate recruiters from across many industry areas.
Do you aspire to become an entrepreneur or undertake freelance projects?
The Student Enterprise Team at the University of Lincoln offers a wide range of support to students and graduates, including workshops, mentoring, and funding for those thinking of becoming a freelancer or starting their own business.
Top 10
The University of Lincoln is ranked in the top 10 universities in the UK for enabling start-up businesses (Higher Education Statistics Agency, 2025)
Everybody deserves to feel safe, and our 24/7 Security Team are here to help if you should need them.
We also have a dedicated campus Police Liaison Officer who can offer advice around any issues you may have involving crime and safety.
enquiries@lincoln.ac.uk
01522886644

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studentlife/accommodation:
University accommodation is so much more than just a place to live, and one of the many reasons our students love Lincoln is because they feel so at home with us.
All of our accommodation is either on campus or a short distance away, which means that almost everything you could need is right on your doorstep.
There are options to suit different needs and budgets whether you're joining us as an undergraduate or postgraduate student, and our Accommodation Services Team is on hand to help you find a great place to live.
Top 5 in the Halls and Student Accommodation category at the Whatuni Student Choice Awards 2025
Ranked 5th out of 100 UK institutions in the Uni Compare Top Universities for Accommodation 2026
Support from our Residence Life Team throughout your time living with us
Access to classes and workout space at our on-campus Sports Centre while living in our accommodation
September 2025 Bookings Open
Applications for accommodation are open for September 2025.
If you have accepted Lincoln as your firm choice on UCAS for 2025 entry, you can now apply for your accommodation through our online booking portal.
One of the reasons why our students feel at home at Lincoln is the sense of community here.
As well as offering well-equipped and contemporary rooms, our purpose-built accommodation includes great social spaces and communal areas where you can hang out, chat, and make new friends.
We allocate our apartments by year groups across our residences, such as first year, returning student, and postgraduate, so you are surrounded by a community of like-minded people.
If you are looking to join us from overseas, our international pages offer guidance on how to apply for accommodation at Lincoln.
Before you arrive in the UK, you will need to make sure that you have arranged suitable accommodation and that you are able to move into your room before the start of your course.
All of our residences are managed following the Universities UK Code of Practice for the Management of Student Housing.
For further information please visit www.thesac.org.uk .
September 2025 Entry
We guarantee an offer of a room in accommodation to all new undergraduate students who apply for accommodation before 31 August 2025.
Thanks to our fantastic location in the heart of Lincoln, no matter which accommodation you choose, you'll never be far from the action.
Accommodation Services will guarantee a room in accommodation for all first-year students, when meeting the following criteria:
Applications are now open for returning students wanting to stay in University-managed accommodation for the 2025/26 academic year.
You can book your accommodation through our booking portal.
To ease your transition to university and help you settle into your new home, our friendly Residence Life Team is here to offer you help when it's needed.
They are the first port of call in halls for any queries or personal matters you may have.
The team also runs a variety of social events and activities, giving you chance to meet other students and help you settle in to your accommodation at Lincoln.
All students who book a University-managed room also receive gym membership, with classes access, for the duration of their accommodation contract.
Our on-campus gym is located in the University Sports Centre, just a short walk away from our on-campus accommodation.
Find out how to apply by following our simple step-by-step guide to choosing the right accommodation.
Explore our 360° tour to get a feel for where all our accommodation is located in relation to the Campus and city centre sights.
Our Accommodation blogsite is a great way to learn more about the support on offer to our students living in University-managed housing.
Parents, guardians, and carers can join our dedicated mailing list to keep up to date with what's happening at Lincoln.
You can find out more about University-managed accommodation, upcoming events and activities, and details about the deadlines your young person needs to be aware of in the coming months.
Accommodation Services Team University of Lincoln Brayford Pool Campus Lincoln LN6 7TS
01522 886300

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/globalopportunities:
Study with Us
Global Opportunities, part of the Careers and Employability team, coordinates enriching global experiences and supports students throughout their opportunities.
Whether you want to study a semester or year abroad or spend a summer at one of our partner universities, find out more below or look on the Careers and Employability website .
You can also chat to our staff at an Open Day about all the amazing international opportunities that may be available to you as a Lincoln student.
The University of Lincoln welcomes nominations from our Exchange Partner Institutions.
You can find out more about studying with us including the deadlines for receiving nominations and online application forms.
If you’re wanting to study abroad or travel whilst at university, our Global Opportunities team helps make these dreams a reality with support, guidance, and opportunities to travel to one of our 40 worldwide partners.
Study abroad

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studentlife/sportatlincoln:
Whether you're studying a sport-related discipline or looking for ways to enjoy your leisure time, a great way to meet fellow students and make lasting friendships is to join one of the many societies and sports clubs offered by the Students’ Union.
Lots of our sports teams also take part in local and national competitions including British Universities and Colleges Sport (BUCS) fixtures.
Lincoln City FC Partnership
The University of Lincoln, Students’ Union, and Lincoln City Football Club have signed a new agreement to further our close collaboration, which includes coaching by Lincoln City professionals, in-depth performance analysis, off-pitch support and guidance, and much more.
We believe in providing opportunities for everyone to participate in sports, whether your goal is to reach the highest competitive level, or simply have fun, keep fit, and make new friends.
Our Students’ Union has more than 100 sports clubs and societies for students to join.
Each year, thousands of students get involved, gaining valuable experience in problem solving and organisational skills by becoming part of a sports committee.
The University of Lincoln Sports Centre is located on our Brayford Pool Campus and caters for all abilities and interests, with an extensive range of facilities, including a gym, squash courts, and five-a-side football pitches.
The Students' Union Feel Good Programme is making sports accessible for everyone by offering free or low cost activities and sessions to encourage social interactions, improve wellbeing, and enrich your University experience.
Originally called ‘The Humber Games’, the annual Varsity competition against the University of Hull is a highlight of the University sporting calendar.
Each year over 1000 students across over 30 activities get involved, competing for the Varsity trophy.
Now in it's 10th year, Lincoln has proudly secured the trophy in each of the last seven competitions!

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studentlife/discoverlincoln:
Lincoln is a smaller city with a friendly community feel but it still offers a rich variety of attractions, activities, and amenities to keep you entertained throughout your time here, from socialising, sports, and shopping, to culture, castles, and countryside pursuits.
Lincoln has also been named the most affordable student city in the UK in the NatWest Student Living Index 2025.
Step back in time and take a trip up the aptly named Steep Hill, which is the gateway to the Lincoln’s historic Cathedral Quarter and Bailgate area, where character-filled streets are lined with quirky shops and enticing eateries.
The area is home to Lincoln Cathedral, one of Europe’s most celebrated medieval buildings and finest examples of Gothic architecture, and Lincoln Castle, where you can walk in the footsteps of kings and see one of only four surviving originals of the 1215 Magna Carta.
Watching over the city, Lincoln Cathedral is one of Europe’s most celebrated medieval buildings and was once the tallest building in the world.
The Cathedral also provides the stunning setting for the University’s graduation ceremonies.
Lincoln Castle is home to one of only four surviving originals of the 1215 Magna Carta and the only place in the world this landmark document can be seen side-by-side with the related Charter of the Forest.
Just a short walk away from campus, you’ll find a range of restaurants, cafes, and bars that overlook the beautiful marina area, while in the centre of Lincoln, you’ll be spoilt for choice with the eclectic mix of pubs and entertainment venues that are available.
Lincoln offers a great shopping experience – its high streets and side streets, including the newly developed Cornhill Quarter, are home to a range of independent and boutique stores alongside national brands and chains.
The newly developed Cornhill Quarter is home to a range of independent and boutique stores alongside national brands and chains, bars, and a cinema.
The Bailgate area features independent shops and cafes nestled between the walls of the medieval Lincoln Castle and the grandeur of Lincoln Cathedral.
Within walking distance of the University is a range of restaurants, cafes, and a multi-screen cinema overlooking one of Lincoln's most iconic sights, Brayford Pool’s marina.
There is a lively programme of theatre and festival events in Lincoln, and the city also boasts a range of museums and public art galleries.
The University’s theatre and art gallery, both located on our Brayford Pool Campus, provide a home for new contemporary performances, featuring the next generation of artists and showcasing new artistic ideas.
Our digital audio platform serves both University and city communities, while the new Barbican Creative Hub, located across from Lincoln Central Railway Station, is giving artists and creatives new opportunities to connect with each other and the public.
The Engine Shed play host to a range of activities, live music, award-winning club events, and comedy throughout the year, while Lincoln Arts Centre is part of a busy arts community, which hosts professional performances and student production.
The city is also home to the New Theatre Royal and The Drill, offering a packed calendar of theatre, music, and comedy to enjoy.
Discover more about upcoming events in the city — from classic car rallies and the annual Steampunk festival, to guided walks and food markets, there's always something happening in our vibrant city.
You don’t have to travel far to experience the great outdoors.
Lincoln itself is home to several parks and beautiful waterways and is surrounded by picturesque countryside and stunning landscapes, ready to be explored through country walks and cycling trips.
Lincolnshire also offers plenty of options for great days out.
From country parks, nature reserves, and historic houses, such as nearby Doddington Hall, to aviation heritage, numerous festivals, and visits to the popular seaside towns, there’s always plenty to do in one of England’s largest counties.
Lincoln is also home to a wide range of sports and leisure facilities, including cinemas, gyms, swimming pools, and cycle routes.
Alternatively, you can watch one of our local sports teams in action or catch one of the many live sporting events that take place in and around the city.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studentlife/maps:
Situated in the East Midlands region of England, Lincoln’s central location allows for quick and easy access to London and a number of other major cities, including Nottingham, Sheffield, Leeds, and Leicester.
Enter your location or postcode to get directions to our Brayford Pool Campus
The major road routes to Lincoln include the A1 at Newark (A46) from the South and near Retford (A57) from the North.
The city is 40 miles east of Nottingham on the A46 and 40 miles south of the Humber Bridge on the A15.
The M1 is also less than an hour's drive away.
Once in Lincoln, you'll find the entrance to the University's main Brayford Pool Campus car park on Rope Walk, near its junction with Tritton Road (postcode LN6 7DQ).
During our weekend Open Days, guests will be able to park at the Boulevard Car Park site, although spaces are limited and available on a first come, first served basis.
A range of parking options is available in the city centre.
Lincoln Central Railway Station is located in the city centre, just a few minutes' walk from our Brayford Pool Campus.
The station is fully accessible for wheelchair users.
Direct trains to/from London King's Cross take around two hours.
There are also frequent rail connections to major cities, including Sheffield, Nottingham, Doncaster, Leicester, and Leeds.
A number of airports are within easy reach of Lincoln, providing direct links to locations around the world.
These include East Midlands, Humberside, Leeds-Bradford, Manchester, and Gatwick and Heathrow in London, where many of our international students fly to before making their way to Lincoln.
Our maps include building locations and routes around the University's campuses, including Brayford Pool Campus, Riseholme, and Holbeach.
View the Maps
Find routes in and around Lincoln city centre and our main Brayford Pool Campus, along with local parking sites and sat nav codes.
Parking Map
Explore the City

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/howtoapply:
Whether you're looking to begin your undergraduate degree, are interested in gaining a postgraduate taught or research qualification, or you're an international student considering learning in the UK, there are different ways to apply for your place with us.
Simply choose the option below that applies to you to find out more about entry requirements, fees, how our courses are delivered, and how to submit your application.
Apply to your choice of course from a huge range of undergraduate degree programmes.
Undergraduate
We offer a range of Postgraduate Taught and Postgraduate Research degrees across a wide range of subjects
Postgraduate
Find out more about tuition fees, visas, and what support is available as you move to study in a new country.
International Students
We're here to support you throughout every stage of your application to study at Lincoln.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/feesandfunding:
Whether you're looking to begin your undergraduate degree, are interested in gaining a postgraduate taught or research qualification, or you're an international student considering learning in the UK, you will need to consider how you would like to fund your studies.
Simply choose the option below that applies to you to find out more about course fees, student finance, scholarships and bursaries, and the funding support that we offer here at Lincoln.
From tuition fees and maintenance loans to cost of living support, find out how you can fund your studies during your time with us.
Explore the funding options available to you if you are studying for a postgraduate taught or research degree.
Find out what you need to know about funding your studies at Lincoln as an overseas student.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/scholarshipsandbursaries:
At the University of Lincoln, we believe passionately in the transformative power of higher education.
Each year we welcome students from a diverse range of backgrounds from all over the world and we offer a variety of scholarships and bursaries which can provide extra financial assistance with the costs of study to eligible students.
We also offer an array of scholarships to support suitably qualified international students when they join us at Lincoln and there is support for postgraduate level study too.
Please be aware that eligibility may vary depending on your academic background, household income, intended programme of study, or nationality.
The University of Lincoln reserves the right to withdraw or modify the scholarships and bursaries listed here at any time.
The University of Lincoln’s Africa Scholarship is aimed at supporting postgraduate taught students from across Africa.
Level of Study
Postgraduate (Taught)
Fees Status
Overseas
Mode of Study
Full-Time
Application Required
No
Full Details
For UK students who hold a University of Lincoln undergraduate degree or higher qualification.
Postgraduate (Taught) Postgraduate (Research)
Home
Full-Time Part-Time
The Blackburn Bursary aims to provide extra support for students coming to the University who are under the age of 25 and are defined as a care leaver.
Yes
The University of Lincoln are proud to support the Chevening Scholars programme, the UK Government's international scholarship scheme aimed at developing global leaders.
The China Advanced Entry Undergraduate Scholarship is designed to help students joining the University of Lincoln on an Advanced Entry Programme from China.
The University of Lincoln’s China Scholarship is aimed at supporting postgraduate taught students from across mainland China.
Commonwealth Scholarships may be available to qualifying University of Lincoln students.
Please visit the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission website for more details.
The University of Lincoln’s Egypt Scholarship is aimed at supporting postgraduate taught students from across Egypt.
The University of Lincoln’s European Union Scholarship is aimed at supporting postgraduate taught students from across the European Union.
The Foyer/Supported Housing Bursary is for students who come directly from living in a Foyer or other supported housing, where they have lived between the ages of 16 to 18.
George Major Bursaries aims to provide bursaries for students with life limiting-illnesses.
Postgraduate (Research) Postgraduate (Taught) Undergraduate
The University of Lincoln's Global Leaders Scholarship is designed to recognise the achievement and potential of international students enrolling at the University in the 2025/26 academic year.
Undergraduate Postgraduate (Taught)
The Global Postgraduate Scholarship is designed to help international students to access postgraduate taught level study at the University of Lincoln.
Hesslewood Children’s Trust aims to provide a number of undergraduate students, in year 1, 2 or 3 of their studies, from schools in Kingston Upon Hull, East Riding of Yorkshire, North Lincolnshire, North East Lincolnshire, Gainsborough or Caistor with a financial needs bursary.
The International Alumni Scholarship is designed to help international alumni to access postgraduate level study at the University of Lincoln.
Postgraduate (Research) Postgraduate (Taught)
The International Undergraduate Scholarship is designed to help international students to access undergraduate level study at the University of Lincoln.
The Lincoln Alumni Master of Architecture Scholarship is an award for students who have previously completed study at the University of Lincoln and are enrolling on the Master of Architecture Programme (MArch).
Part-Time Full-Time
The Lincoln Alumni MSc School of Health and Social Care Scholarship is an award for students who have previously completed study at the University of Lincoln and are enrolling one of the following programmes in 2025/26:
Home Overseas
The Lincoln Alumni MSc Social Work Scholarship is an award for students who have previously completed study at the University of Lincoln and are enrolling on the MSc Social Work (Pre-Qualification) programme.
This bursary, offered by Lincolnshire based donors, aims to offer additional support to students who were residents of the Lincolnshire area prior to application and also meet the University of Nottingham's Widening Participation criteria.
The University of Lincoln’s South Asia Scholarship is designed to support postgraduate taught students from across Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka.
The University of Lincoln’s South East Asia Scholarship is aimed at supporting postgraduate taught students from across Brunei, Cambodia, East Timor, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, and Vietnam.
A sports scholarship for all undergraduate and postgraduate students has been established to support athletes in their pursuit of excellence.
The University of Lincoln’s Turkey Scholarship is aimed at supporting postgraduate taught students from across Turkey.
The University of Lincoln Scholarship is for UK students whose household income is below a £45,875/year (2024/25 entry and prior) or £25,000/year (2025/26 entry).
The University of Lincoln’s USA Scholarship is aimed at supporting postgraduate taught students from across the United States of America.
The University of Lincoln’s Vice-Chancellor’s Scholarship has been established to help recognise academic excellence.
The scholarship is available to high achieving students joining the University from an overseas partner institution in September 2025.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/applicantsandofferholders:
We’re delighted that you’ve applied for a place to study with us here at the University of Lincoln.
In this section, you’ll find helpful information designed to take you right through from when you've submitted your application to enrolling in September.
If you've yet to apply, you can find out more about how to submit your application on our how to apply pages.
We are here to support you at every stage of your journey, and you can contact us with any questions you may have by emailing enquiries@lincoln.ac.uk or by calling 01522 886644 .
Our Admissions Team will review your application and we may invite you to an interview or audition (if required for your course) before deciding whether to make you an offer to study with us.
Don’t worry if you’ve not heard from us, we will process your application as soon as we can and will be in touch.
If you submitted your application by the 29 January 2025 UCAS deadline, you can expect the University to make a decision on your application by 14 May 2025.
You can sign in to your UCAS Hub to check your application's progress at any time.
It’s really important you keep your contact details up to date to make sure you don’t miss any notifications.
If you've received an offer to study with us, you'll become one of our Offer Holders.
Explore our understanding your offer page to find out more about the different types of offers that can be made, how to reply to your offer, and more detail about our entry requirements.
You'll also be invited to join one of our exciting Offer Holder Days, where you'll be able to visit us and get a feel for your subject through a day of taster sessions.
We will be in touch with regular Offer Holder emails to keep you up to date with our latest news, upcoming important dates, and information you'll need to help prepare you for university life.
We’ve got all of the information you need to clearly understand your offer and how to reply.
You can also view some examples of typical offers we may make and find out more about additional requirements you may need to meet.
If you've received an offer to study with us, you'll be invited to one of our exciting Offer Holder Days.
These subject-specific events provide you with the chance to really experience what it might be like to study your chosen course at Lincoln through a day of taster sessions.
You'll also be able to meet your potential coursemates and speak to academic staff.
Once you have your offer, it’s time to start putting your plans in place for the start of the course.
It’s important that you understand and apply for your student finance and take a look at your accommodation options.
You can also begin to start meeting your potential future coursemates via Unibuddy, our online student community.
Our Unibuddy Community provides a safe, official space for you to meet and get to know other new students before you arrive at Lincoln.
You can meet other Offer Holders studying your course, discuss shared interests and hobbies, and learn more about Lincoln.
Get Started
Once you have formally accepted your offer of a place at the University, you'll be able to make your accommodation application using our online system.
Find Your New Home
You can apply for student finance from the beginning of the year that you’re looking to begin your studies.
Explore our fees and funding pages to find out more about the support available and how to apply.
The University of Lincoln is committed to ensuring a safe and supportive environment for all students, staff, and visitors.
As part of this commitment, we require prospective and current students to disclose any relevant criminal records.
This policy is in place to ensure the safety and wellbeing of our University community while providing support and guidance to individuals with criminal records.
A relevant criminal record refers to any criminal conviction, caution, reprimand, or final warning that may have implications for the safety and wellbeing of the University community.
An unspent conviction refers to a criminal conviction that has not yet reached the end of its rehabilitation period as defined by the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974.
This means it must still be disclosed when required, as it has not become 'spent' (or expired) under law.
The length of time before a conviction becomes spent varies depending on the sentence imposed and any subsequent offences.
Until the specified period has elapsed without further convictions, the offence remains unspent and is considered relevant for disclosure purposes.
Relevant convictions include, but are not limited to:
All applicants and current students who have a relevant criminal record are required to disclose this information.
This applies to:
To disclose a relevant criminal record, students and applicants should follow these steps:
Prospective Students
Prospective students must disclose any relevant and unspent criminal records during the application process, if they have received an Offer Letter from the University.
This can be done by:
The University of Lincoln treats all disclosures of criminal records with the utmost confidentiality.
Information will only be shared with relevant staff members who need to know, to assess and manage any potential risks.
The University complies with UK Data Protection legislation, ensuring that your information is handled securely and responsibly.
For more information, please see our University Privacy Notices .
Once a relevant criminal record has been disclosed, the University will conduct an assessment to determine the potential risks and implications for the individual and the University community.
This assessment may include:
Based on the assessment, the University will decide on the appropriate course of action, which may include:
The University of Lincoln is committed to supporting individuals with criminal records and helping them achieve their educational goals.
We offer a range of support services, including:
If you have any questions or concerns about disclosing a relevant criminal record, please contact the Student Wellbeing team at disclosure@lincoln.ac.uk for assistance.
The University of Lincoln's policy on disclosing relevant criminal records is designed to ensure the safety and wellbeing of our community while providing support and guidance to individuals with criminal records.
By adhering to this policy, we can create a safe, inclusive, and supportive environment for all students, staff, and visitors.
Explore our dedicated guidance for international offer holders.
On this page, you can find out more information to help you prepare for your journey to the UK, alongside advice and tips on settling in during your first few weeks as a student.
Our Learning at Lincoln site includes tips from current students, advice from tutors and links to resources and support on all aspects of learning and teaching.
Visit Learning at Lincoln
It’s finally the day you’ve been waiting for, and we’ve got everything crossed for you.
We know that results day can be a busy time, so to answer any questions you may have about what to do next, we have pulled together a simple guide .
There are plenty of things you can do in advance to prepare, even if you think you know what grades you're likely to achieve.
Remember, regardless of what happens on the day, the University of Lincoln is here to help you.
Once you've received your results and your place at Lincoln is confirmed, you can start to look forward to joining us.
We can’t wait to welcome all of our new students in September and bring them the amazing student experience Lincoln has become known for.
It's important to understand the formal enrolment process and to access your Welcome Week timetables ready for your first week.
We'll also be in touch with lots of useful information in the weeks before you are due to arrive.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/chatwithourstudents:
Register with our Unibuddy platform and send a message to one of our friendly student ambassadors – they’re here to help.
If you have a question about your application or specific qualifications, the best thing to do is contact our Enquiries team who will be able to assist you.
Our Unibuddies can help with everything else - and it takes just a minute to create an account!

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/parentsguardiansandcarers:
At Lincoln, the wellbeing and success of our students is at the heart of everything we do.
We aim to provide a supportive environment in which they can grow, gain confidence, and have the best possible university experience.
We are also here to support you as you support your young person throughout their journey to University, offering all the information, help, advice, and guidance you need to make the process as easy and enjoyable as possible.
Going to university can open up lots of interesting, exciting, and even life-changing opportunities.
It can help young people shape their futures, supporting them to discover more about themselves, as well as their subject.
Earning potential* Earn more than non-graduates
Careers Achieve career goals and ambitions
Pursue a passion Study a subject in detail
Development Build confidence and independence
Skills Develop transferrable skills
Work experience Undertake industry placements
Diversity Experience different cultures
Broaden horizons Enjoy overseas study trips
It all starts here.
And we’ll support you and your young person on every exciting step of the way.
Below you'll find lots of useful information about studying at Lincoln, and our how to apply pages will answer many of the questions you may have about choosing the right programme and submitting an application.
To help you navigate the application process, we've created an easy step-by-step guide covering all the things you'll need to consider during your journey to the University of Lincoln.
You can also visit the UCAS website for more information.
See Lincoln for Yourself
Before applying, it's really important to visit a university to get a feel for what it might be like to study there.
Our Open Days give you the chance to explore our range of undergraduate programmes, chat with course tutors and current students, tour our beautiful campus, and explore our award-winning accommodation and specialist facilities.
The Careers Team are ready to support students through every step of their career journey, from gaining part-time work alongside their studies to exploring their career options and securing their dream graduate job.
We also support placements, work experience, and the opportunity to go abroad to study, work, or volunteer.
Not to mention there are a plethora of extracurricular opportunities accessible to students throughout their university experience, such as the Lincoln Awards.
We provide opportunities and resources to students to develop a whole range of new skills, improve their confidence, grow their independence and their employment prospects.
We offer a range of options to suit different budgets and all of our accommodation is either on campus or a short distance away, giving students easy access to almost everything they need.
All properties feature 24/7 security and our friendly Residence Life team is also on hand to help students settle in and offer support when needed.
We know that it’s not possible for everyone to travel home to access healthcare, which is why we have an on-campus Health Centre providing GP access and other health support to our students.
The Health Centre is conveniently located on our Brayford Pool Campus, meaning our students are never far from getting the help they need.
Our commitment to providing excellent mental health support has been recognised with a national University Mental Health Charter Award in 2024.
We understand that students may have many different priorities to juggle, such as academic work, social life, independent study, and part-time work.
And whether they need support with a disability, a health condition, or learning differences, our team of expert advisors is on hand to offer that extra bit of support to our students.
Our close-knit and supportive community offers plenty of opportunities to make friends and socialise.
Joining one of the more than 100 teams and societies run by the Students' Union is a great way to meet other students, have fun, and develop new interests.
Affordability has never been more important.
Our central location means our campus, accommodation, and the city centre are within walking distance, saving on transport costs.
We also provide financial support and opportunities to help make students' money go further.
In addition to Government loans, we offer a wide range of scholarships and bursaries that can help pay for learning resources, cover living costs, or support placements.
Funding
To help address current concerns about the cost of living, we've created a dedicated hub providing helpful information and advice on how students can manage their finances.
Explore the Hub
There are lots of local shops, bars, and restaurants offering part-time jobs, and our Campus Jobs team is also available to help students find employment within the University.
Campus Jobs
Lincoln is a small, walkable city, great for getting out and about.
Our Brayford Pool Campus is located at the heart of it all, meaning that students can find an assortment of shops, cafes, restaurants, bars, and entertainment venues right on their doorstep.
* Research published by the Policy Institute at King’s College London shows that graduates from UK universities tend to earn significantly more over their lifetime than non-graduates.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/outreach:
We support schools up and down the country in inspiring their students to take the exciting step to university.
We’re passionate about sharing the lifelong benefits of higher education, having seen it transform the lives of so many of our graduates.
The University of Lincoln is an exciting place to study, with our excellent facilities, stunning location, and wealth of academic expertise.
Our flagship Be Inspired days are the best way to get students excited about their subject.
Students can try out sessions inspired by different courses we offer and maybe discover a course or career they never new existed.
Our Gatsby-aligned talks and workshops bring a bit of Lincoln to your classroom.
Covering everything from making the most of post-16 to next steps after applying, we have something for every stage of the journey to higher education.
Whether you want show your students a university campus or give them the experience of being in a lecture, we run a variety of days on campus designed to lift the curtain and show them what its like to study at Lincoln.
We believe in making things personal, and that’s why each member of the team is assigned a region of the country.
We aim to make sure you have a go-to contact who knows you, your students, and your school.
Find your contact below and get in touch to book your first session.
East Midlands
Email
West Midlands
Lincolnshire
Yorkshire and the Humber
East Midlands and the North West
Schools and Colleges Assistant
The best way to keep up-to-date with everything that's going on is by joining our mailing list to receive monthly updates on what's happening at Lincoln and across the sector.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/researchatlincoln:
Through our research, we are striving to change society for the better.
Collaborating across sectors and disciplines, and working with partners at regional, national, and international levels, our academics are leading groundbreaking studies that challenge convention and deliver real-world impact.
To achieve the goals of our Strategic Plan 2022–27 , we must build on this momentum – enhancing the scale, quality, and visibility of our research.
By focusing on our core strengths and aligning our efforts with local and global priorities, we will continue to support the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and create lasting value for communities worldwide.
Research Spotlight
A team of experts at the University of Lincoln is undertaking groundbreaking studies into animal behaviour, offering innovative solutions and developing practical approaches to the welfare of a diverse range of animal species.
Whether improving productivity in the food supply chain, developing technological advancements for agriculture, or addressing place-based health inequalities across the rural-urban divide, our research institutes and centres are home to pioneering new studies which bring together expertise from across the University and beyond to produce research that is changing the world.
With a clear focus on improving productivity, efficiency, and sustainability, LIAT is engaged in research designed to make a difference across the food chain.
NCFM aims to progress high-impact food sector focused research designed to advance the industry at all points in the supply chain.
LIRCH conducts world-class interdisciplinary research to address the most challenging health issues facing rural and coastal communities locally, nationally, and internationally.
Explore All Our Research Institutes, Centres, and Groups
We understand the importance of providing staff and students with a supportive and collaborative research environment for undertaking studies that can make a real difference to communities around the world.
Collaboration is at the heart of the University’s strategy.
At Lincoln, we are recognised for setting a blueprint for excellence in our pioneering approach to working with industry.
Our unique relationships with companies such as Siemens Energy, Santander, and the Lincolnshire Co-op demonstrate our innovative industry-engaged approach, which has been acknowledged through a series of national awards.
The University has joined a groundbreaking coalition of 17 universities , in support of a £3m international campaign that aims to drive economic growth in the Midlands.
The campaign will help to redefine how academia works in partnership with industry, attracting inward investment into research and development, innovation, and science.
Results from the most recent national Research Excellence Framework (REF), which is a system for measuring research excellence in higher education institutions in the UK, revealed that more than three quarters of Lincoln’s research was judged to be internationally excellent or world-leading.
Meet some of our expert academics and researchers who are at the forefront of our approach to transforming lives and communities, developing distinctive responses to some of the most pressing challenges we are facing today.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/researchatlincoln/researchenvironment:
At the University of Lincoln, we understand the importance of providing staff and students with the best possible environment for pursuing research that can help our communities, improve lives, and change the world.
Our supportive and inclusive research culture, where collaboration and knowledge exchange is fostered through a range of specialist institutes, schools, and policy initiatives, remains the bedrock of our success, while m ajor investments in new buildings and state-of-the-art research facilities ensure that we nurture creativity and deliver impactful research that addresses regional and global priorities.
The School provides a focal point for our vibrant community of postgraduate researchers, offering student support, training programmes, and opportunities to share experiences across the wider research community.
The focus is on developing meaningful and sustainable approaches to academic and institutional practice, research culture, and professional development.
The Institute offers fellowship and travel schemes for academic staff, alongside development activities for researchers to enhance their knowledge and networks.
To help researchers develop the knowledge and skills needed to meet their career goals and aspirations, we regularly invite expressions of interest for externally funded fellowship schemes.
These schemes offer a range of opportunities for researchers currently based in the UK and around the world, who can be hosted by the University of Lincoln for the duration of the fellowship.
Explore Current and Future Fellowships
Our postgraduate students are an integral part of our research community and we regularly provide opportunities to work with our expert academics on exciting research projects through our range of studentships.
We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of rigour and integrity in all aspects of our research.
We do this by supporting good conduct and helping to prevent misconduct, upholding the commitments outlined in the UUK Concordat to Support Research Integrity, which provides a comprehensive national framework for good research conduct.
The University has developed a code of practice for research and a set of policies designed to encourage the completion of studies of the highest quality, to meet our ambitions as set out in our Strategic Plan 2022-27 .
Read More About Ethics and Integrity at Lincoln
You can take advantage of the high-quality facilities and specialist research spaces we offer across our buildings on campuses to help support your research, including scientific laboratories, state-of-the-art clinical suites, specialist arts studios, and access to advanced research equipment and resources.
Undergraduate students at Lincoln have the opportunity to gain hands-on research experience, develop transferable skills, and even contribute to new knowledge through our competitive bursary scheme, where they can work alongside experts on a range projects across all disciplines.
The University is a signatory of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, setting out clear standards that research staff can expect from the institution that employs them.
The Concordat is an agreement between funders and employers of research staff to improve the employment and support for research careers in UK higher education.
It not only helps to improve the environment and culture within which research is conducted, but also recognises the role of research and innovation in delivering the UK’s industrial and economic strategies.
Read More About the Concordat
The University's Vice Chancellor Neal Juster has signed the Letter of Commitment to the Concordat for the Environmental Sustainability of Research and Innovation Practice.
The Concordat represents a shared ambition for the UK to continue delivering cutting-edge research, but in a more environmentally responsible and sustainable way.
Our annual Images of Research competition showcases some of the high-quality, impactful studies that are taking place at Lincoln, giving postgraduate students and academics the opportunity to share their research experiences via a unique image and a 150-word abstract.
The Hub features the latest insights, evidence, and commentary from Lincoln researchers, through blogs, policy briefs, and policy guidance.
Our research repository features journal articles, book sections, conference papers, and theses completed by researchers at Lincoln.
Find our more about our academics and the groundbreaking research they are undertaking at Lincoln.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/researchatlincoln/institutescentresandgroups:
Researchers at the University of Lincoln collaborate through a dynamic range of institutes, centres, and groups, which together form a rich, collegiate environment where research carried out by our academics, students, and partners is supported and nurtured.
Whether exploring major health challenges in rural settings, developing technological advancements in agriculture, addressing growing environmental concerns, or tackling social exclusion and inequality in contemporary society, these groups are hubs for pioneering new studies which bring together expertise from across the University and beyond.
Our research institutes provide a wide range of opportunities for research, championing creativity and encouraging ideas that can challenge the status quo, while also promoting inclusion and diversity, and pursuing cross-disciplinary, collaborative research with rigour and integrity.
Specialising in technologies for perception, learning, decision-making, control, and interaction in autonomous systems.
Conducting research with a clear focus on improving productivity, efficiency, and sustainability through innovation.
Addressing the challenging health issues facing rural and coastal communities around the world.
Progressing high-impact research designed to advance the food industry at all points in the supply chain.
Explore our key research centres which are undertaking high-quality studies that are contributing to our goal of establishing an international reputation for challenge-led, co-created, impactful research and knowledge exchange that addresses global and regional priorities.
Focusing on strengthening the wider autism community through participatory action research.
Undertaking research encompassing computational and theoretical physics as well as applied mathematics.
Acting as a dynamic force, C4CC is a ‘think and do tank’, researching and leading on cultural programmes and creativity.
Addressing the pressing social issues that directly impact on the lives of families.
Examining algebraic theory and aiming to contribute to our growing understanding of this mathematical field.
With a mission to enhance people’s health and wellbeing and reduce inequalities.
Investigating and improving crime and justice outcomes through research, consultancy, and knowledge exchange.
Exploring ecological justice measures to address current environmental emergencies.
Establishing Lincoln as a recognised centre of excellence for research in parliamentary and legislative studies.
Utilising advanced sleep research facilities and collaborating on studies around the world.
Explore by subject area our range of innovative research groups at the University of Lincoln, which are conducting high-quality research and working across disciplinary boundaries.
Arts and Humanities for Health
(Re) Constructing Musics
Collaboration Laboratory (co_Lab) Research Group
Contemporary Theatre Making
Extra Sonic Practice
Intercultural Performance
School Design Research Group
Sustainable Built Environments
Community Organisation Research Group
Lincoln Economics, Accountancy and Finance Research Group
Lincoln Smart Circular Sustainable Chains Lab
Marketing Research Group
Regional Innovation and Enterprise Research Group
Responsible Management Research Group
UNESCO Chair
Visitor Economy Research Group
Child-friendly Research Network
Creativity and Cultural Industries
Critical Heritage and Place Consumption
Global and Transregional Studies Research Group
Heritage Archives Network
Law and Society Research Group
Lincolnshire Police Network
Lincolnshire Learning Lab
Primary and Secondary Education Cluster
Tertiary Education Group
Cancer and Ageing Research Group
Clinical Pharmacy and Practice Research Group
Diabetes, Metabolism and Inflammation Research Group
Drug Discovery, Design and Delivery Research Group
Healthy Ageing Research Group
Mental Health, Health and Social Care Research Group
Microbiology and Biotechnology Research Group
Performance Research Group
Wellbeing Research Group
Medieval and Early Modern Studies Research Group
Nineteenth Century Research Group
21st Century Research Group
Animal Behaviour, Cognition and Welfare Research Group
Catchments and Coasts Research Group
Chem Bio-Interface
Evolution and Ecology Research Group
Development and Behaviour Research Group
Forensic and Clinical Research Group
Perception, Action and Cognition Research Group
Psychological Health and Wellbeing Research Group
Social Psychology Research Group
High Performance computing for Science, Technology and Environmental Research (HiPSTER)
Industrial Digitalisation and System Intelligence Research Group
Interactive Technologies Laboratory (intLab) Research Group
Laboratory of Vision Engineering (LoVE)
Lincoln Climate Research Group
Lincoln Soils Research Group
Machine Learning Group (Mlearn)
Novel Analytical Methodologies
Sustainable Energy and Power Systems Research Group
Conflict and Disaster Research Group (CONDIS)
Defence and Security Research Network
Development, Inequality, Resilience and Environments (DIRE) Research Group
Migration, Citizenship and Communities Research Group
Violence in Society Research Group
Here at Lincoln, we are proud of our supportive research environment and collaborative culture, which is helping our staff and students to produce high-quality research that is transforming lives and tackling some of the major challenges we are facing in the world today.
We understand the importance of providing the best possible environment for pursuing research that can support our communities, improve lives, and change the world.
Our Environment
You can find theses, journal articles, book chapters, and papers from our academics, many of whom are working across our research institutes, centres, and groups.
Search the Repository
Find out more about our academics and their research specialisms by searching our staff directory.
Search the Directory
Researchers in the College of Health and Science are advancing knowledge in areas such as healthcare, biomedical sciences, psychology, and sports science, generating impactful discoveries that are making a tangible difference to our communities.
Research in the College of Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities covers a broad range of topics and utilises a wide variety of methodologies and approaches that foster regional, national, and international collaborations and partnerships.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/postgraduatestudy/postgraduateresearch:
A research degree oﬀers a tailored, supervised approach to study and is especially suited to students wanting to focus on a speciﬁc area of interest and make an original contribution to knowledge.
As well as gaining an additional qualification, a research degree can help you to strengthen your critical and analytical skills, boost your confidence, and give you the opportunity to become an expert in your field.
At Lincoln, we offer several different types of degrees, and which programme is right for you will depend on a number of factors, including your current stage of study and your career aspirations.
MA/MSc by Research are Master’s-level courses that take up to 16 months full-time and 32 months part-time to complete and don’t usually include lectures or seminars.
They can provide a good foundation for those wanting to progress to an MPhil or PhD.
This can be a standalone qualiﬁcation or form part of a PhD and takes 18 months to 32 months full-time to complete.
It comprises a substantial piece of research that demonstrates a critical understanding of an aspect of an academic discipline.
A PhD is the highest level of qualification and usually takes between three and four years full-time to complete, or up to eight years part-time.
It culminates in a thesis, which makes an original contribution to knowledge in an academic discipline.
For a Master's by Research, you will need to produce a thesis of around 25,000 words, for an MPhil your thesis will be around 40,000 words, while at PhD level it will be 80,000 words.
For an MPhil and PhD, you will normally need to defend your thesis in an oral examination (viva voce), where you are expected to demonstrate an expert understanding of the subject, and to show how your research findings contribute to knowledge or build on existing understandings of the subject.
Our course pages provide the most detailed information about our research degrees, including start dates, entry requirements, fees, programme structure, duration, assessments, and other subject-specific elements such as research facilities and opportunities for collaboration.
We aim to provide you with a supportive network of staff, students, and specialist services to guide you through your postgraduate journey and help when you need it most.
We offer a range of development opportunities for you to gain the skills, knowledge, and attributes that can help you meet your career goals and aspirations
Discover more about studying for a research programme at the University of Lincoln and your next steps in the process.
Find out more about the application process for a research degree at the University of Lincoln and what you'll need to complete on our How to Apply page, which also features contact details for dedicated support with your application.
Paul graduated with a PhD (Professional) Education and is now a school principal and part-time lecturer at the University of Limerick.
He is also a mentor with the Oide leadership team, which is the Department of Education and Skills support service in Ireland.
At Lincoln, I feel I got an education not just a degree.
My PhD has given me the research training I needed to approach my role from a more academic viewpoint and allows me to consider the theory versus practice aspect of school leadership.
The University also has a great campus with very supportive staff throughout.
You get to meet wonderful people and see a lovely city while earning a high-quality qualification.
Postgraduate students are an integral part of our vibrant research community here at the University of Lincoln.
Meet some of our student researchers to find out more about their exciting work, which aims to have a real-world impact on lives and communities in the UK and beyond.
Our postgraduate research students are able to learn from, and work alongside, leading academics, many of whom are working on groundbreaking studies that are addressing the major global challenges that are facing us all today.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/postgraduatestudy/researchstudentships:
Postgraduate Research
Postgraduate students are an integral part of our research community.
They work alongside talented academics and researchers from around the world, contributing to our growing reputation for internationally excellent research.
To help you fund your studies and achieve your career goals, we offer a range of scholarships and funded project-specific studentships across various disciplines, giving you the chance to get involved in some of the exciting research projects taking place at Lincoln.
We are also offering exciting opportunities through our doctoral training partnerships and centres, which bring together academic expertise and cutting-edge resources to help deliver innovative and transformative research, and we regularly invite expressions of interest for externally funded fellowship schemes.
Supervisory Team : Dr Ravi Valluru
This PhD aims to understand the potential nature of sulphur on biological nitrogen fixation in faba beans.
Sulphur is an essential mineral nutrient for plant growth and development; important for primary and specialized plant metabolites that are crucial for biotic and abiotic interactions.
Sulphur also plays a crucial role in biological nitrogen fixation, a natural process belonging to legumes that symbiosis with bacteria through root nodules to fix atmospheric nitrogen.
Root nodules have a high demand for sulphur.
In nodulated legumes, biological nitrogen fixation is more sensitive to sulphur deficiency than nitrate uptake.
However, the natural sources of gypsum-mine-derived sulphur-containing by-product’s effect on plant growth, development and biological nitrogen fixation is largely unexplored.
This 3.5-year project will unveil the functional relationship between sulphur nutrition and biological nitrogen fixation in faba beans using 15N stable isotopes.
Training and Development
The successful candidate will receive comprehensive research training including technical, personal, and professional skills.
All researchers at University of Lincoln are part of the Doctoral College and College of Health and Science wider postgraduate community, which provides support with high quality training and career development opportunities.
This PhD studentship is fully funded and covers University fees for 3.5 years.
Entry requirements for applicants to PhD
A Master’s (honours) degree in a relevant discipline/subject area with a minimum mark of 60% in the project element (or equivalent), and the potential to engage in innovative research, and to complete the PhD within 3.5 years.
How to Apply
To find out more about the project, please contact Dr Ravi Valluru ( rvalluru@lincoln.ac.uk ).
Applications will require a two-page CV and a 2000-word supporting statement, showing how the applicant's expertise and interests are relevant to the project.
The detection and control of food pathogens is important as they cause 2.4 million cases of human illness in the UK at a cost of £9.1 billion annually.
This burden of foodborne disease is predicted to worsen hospitalisations due to foodborne bacteria have doubled in the last 25 years and the escalating antimicrobial resistances of foodborne pathogens is making these diseases less treatable.
The food industry heavily relies on swab tests for hygiene control and ISO detection methods have turnaround times of up to 3 days: this prevents food manufacturers from being able to rapidly detect pathogens and therefore implement fast and agile responses to the presence of pathogens.
This project aims to reduce the burden of foodborne diseases by enabling the food sector to rapidly detect pathogens using rapid and innovative tests that will complement the existing testing system.
These tests will be based on lateral flow dipsticks and will function as an early indicator of pathogen presence based on the isothermal amplification of specific DNA from target pathogens.
The ideal candidate will have experience with DNA extraction, PCR and other molecular biology techniques.
Experience of DNA sequence alignment, primers design, loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) of nucleic acids and microbiology techniques would also be extremely beneficial.
We are looking for a motivated, self-directed individual that is focused on delivering outputs.
The successful candidate must be enrolled full-time and will receive a tax-free stipend of £19,237 in total and receive a contribution to their fees of £4,786 in total, which will cover the first year of ‘home’ fee costs.
International students may apply but will need to make up the balance of the International fee costs.
This MSc is fully funded by Eurofins Food and Water testing UK Ltd and the successful candidate will work closely with the company, including visiting their sites, and there is a possibility of employment with Eurofins after the degree subject to performance and availability of openings.
Supervisors: Dr Enrico Ferrari and Prof Mat Goddard
Location: Joseph Banks Laboratories, University of Lincoln
Start date: September 2025
If you wish to apply for this position, please send an email to cohsstudentships@lincoln.ac.uk with “Eurofins MSc” as a header and the following attachments:
1) a covering letter explaining why you want to undertake this MSc and your relevant experience, and
2) a full CV (with 2 referees).
Closing date: 17 th July 2025
All application will be assessed, and we expect to hold interviews to aid the selection process on Wednesday the 23 rd of July 2025 .
Once a potential candidate is chosen they will be required to formally apply to the University for a MSc by Research position: please note the University entry requirement for this is a first or upper second class honours degree in a relevant subject , found here: https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/course/mbiresms/
We encourage applications from all backgrounds.
For any informal enquiries please contact Dr Ferrari: eferrari@lincoln.ac.uk
Join a cutting-edge multidisciplinary team at the University of Lincoln as part of the AGROBOOST EU Horizon project.
This research studentship is dedicated to pioneering the next generation of AI-driven harvesting robots by using gamified Virtual Reality (VR) training environments.
You’ll help develop intuitive, user-friendly VR platforms enabling non-expert users to program complex robotic actions through game-based demonstrations—eliminating the need for code-heavy, traditional programming approaches.
Start date: November 2025
Funding: Full UK/Home tuition, tax-free stipend (£19,237/year), plus a budget for research activities and conference travel.
Please note: International students are encouraged to apply; however, the stipend will only cover UK/home rates.
This means that the student would need to cover the monetary difference between the Home and International tuition fees.
See more information on international tuition fees here
Project Scope:
Design and prototype immersive VR tools to train agricultural robots and integrate gameplay elements to teach AI models robot tasks using human input.
Essential qualifications and skills:
o First-class BSc or an MSc in Games Development, VR/AR, Artificial Intelligence, Computer Science, Robotics, or related fields.
o Solid programming skills (preferably Python and/or C#, C++).
o Excellent communication skills
o For international students: IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element.
Desirable skills:
o Experience developing HCI, VR, or robotics projects, and a portfolio of published work or game prototypes.
o Familiarity with user experience design, machine learning, or robotics.
Application deadline: 25 August 2025
How to apply: Application information
For informal enquiries, contact: Dr Athanasios Polydoros (apolydoros@lincoln.ac.uk).
Project Lead: Dr Bartholomew Hill, BHill@lincoln.ac.uk
Overview
This exciting funded Master's by Research project, titled BRANCH (Beck Restoration and Analysis of Nettleham Culvert Hydraulics), is hosted by the University of Lincoln in collaboration with Nettleham Parish Council.
The project investigates the causes and potential solutions to localised flooding issues in the Nettleham Beck – a chalk stream of ecological and community significance in Lincolnshire, UK.
The successful applicant will undertake field-based data collection and apply a 2D hydraulic modelling software (e.g.
HEC-RAS 2D) to simulate the performance of existing culverts under various flow scenarios, as well as simulate a range of de-culverting and nature-based alternatives.
The project will be conducted full-time over one year, starting October 2025, and includes direct engagement with stakeholders and opportunities for public outreach.
This is an ideal opportunity for a candidate looking to develop their skills in applied hydrology, geospatial analysis, and environmental modelling while contributing to an impactful, community-driven research effort.
The student will:
Skills/Experience Required
Essential
Desirable
Funding and Support
Lump Sum Bursary: A lump-sum of approximately £8,006 shall go to the successful applicant.
The applicant may use these funds to support their tuition fees or for a living allowance for the duration of the project.
For information about the MSc by Research Geography programme, inclduign entry requirement, starting in autumn 2025, please visit our course page.
Additional research costs: Fieldwork-related travel and equipment will be covered through project funding.
All monitoring equipment (e.g.
water Levelloggers and GPS) shall be provided by the University of Lincoln.
To apply for this role each your submission should include (each 1 page, A4, 11pt Arial):
These should be submitted as one document, either Word or PDF, to bhill@lincoln.ac.uk or via the application advertisement on findamasters.com.
Timeline
Applications Deadline – 5pm (BST), 22 August 2025
Interviews – Start of September 2025
MSc project start date – October 2025
MSc project end date – September 2026
Contact Details
For any further information or specific enquiries about the MSc by Research project, please contact Dr Bartholomew Hill at BHill@lincoln.ac.uk .
The FoodBioSystems Doctoral Training Partnership is a collection of universities dedicated to developing expert bioscientists with the knowledge and skills to tackle the challenges facing food production.
With this goal in mind, the partnership has created 39 funded studentships that are working across the Agri-food system to address challenges such as sustainability, efficacy, authenticity, and safety in food production.
You can find out more about these exciting opportunities by visiting the FoodBioSystems Doctoral Training Partnership website .
We're proud to be working alongside the Partnership to deliver two of these exciting research studentships.
Project No: FBS25-73-Parsons-lr
Supervisory Team: Professor Simon Parsons, University of Lincoln; Dr Zoe Barker, University of Reading; Professor Elizabeth Sklar, University of Lincoln
Producing plant matter for animal food is important for livestock farming, both for grazing and for making silage.
This is typically done by growing fields of rye grass.
Switching to a range of species, typically including other grasses, legumes like clover, and herbaceous plants like wildflowers, has benefits for the ecosystem and for the animals.
The benefits for the ecosystem include improving soil quality, drought tolerance, and biodiversity.
The benefits for animals include better health and less methane emissions.
However, farmers are wary of growing multi-species grasslands because they do not understand how best to manage them.
This project will gather evidence on management practice from ongoing work with multi-species grasslands, and use AI to analyse this evidence and present it farmers to help them manage their land.
Training Opportunities
The successful applicant will receive training in AI techniques, the use of the robotic and drone-based technologies which can be deployed in the field to obtain data on grassland, on field work elements like quadrat sampling and species identification, and on laboratory analysis.
They will also undertake training in the responsible and ethical uses of AI.
Project Supervision
An online meeting with the entire supervisory team will be held once a month, and the lead supervisor will meet with the student weekly.
These will be one-to-one in the sense that the DTP student will be the only student in those meetings (they will not be lab group meetings).
Additional meetings with the wider supervisory group may be scheduled when appropriate (for example for planning field work during the growing season) and the student will participate in lab/group meetings where that is helpful for them.
The lead supervisor has a longstanding policy of providing feedback on student paper drafts within 48 hours (in practice the turnaround is typically less).
A schedule for feedback on thesis drafts (and sections thereof) varies depending on what exactly is being reviewed, but a schedule is agreed in advance.
Student Profile
This project will be of interest to candidates with either a background in agriculture or agricultural technology who are interested in artificial intelligence/machine learning, or to candidates with a background in artificial intelligence/machine learning who are interested in agriculture.
Stipend (Salary)
FoodBioSystems DTP students receive an annual tax free stipend (salary) that is paid in instalments throughout the year.
For 2024/25 this is £19,237 and it will increase slightly each year at rate set by UKRI.
Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion
The FoodBioSystems DTP is committed to equity, diversity, and inclusion (EDI), to building a doctoral researcher (DR) and staff body that reflects the diversity of society, and to encourage applications from under-represented and disadvantaged groups.
Our actions to promote diversity and inclusion are detailed on the FoodBioSystems DTP website and include:
• Offering reasonable adjustments at interview for shortlisted candidates who have disclosed a disability or specific learning difference.
• Guaranteed interview and applicant mentoring schemes for applicants, with UK home fees status, from eligible under-represented ethnic groups.
These are opt-in processes.
Our studentships are offered on a part time basis in addition to full time registration.
The minimum registration is 50% FT and the studentship end date will be extended to reflect the part-time registration.
For up to date information on funding eligibility, studentship rates and part time registration, please visit the FoodBioSystems website .
Applications for this opportunity are by online application form, and full details can be found on the FoodBioSystems website .
Supervisory Team: Dr Leonidas Rempelos, University of Lincoln; Professor Ruben Sakrabani, Cranfield University; Dr Iain Gould, University of Lincoln
The UK imports a significant amount of unsustainably-mined phosphorus, with low deployment efficiency leading to environmental issues like eutrophication.
Organic waste streams (e.g., manure, sewage sludge) offer potential for sustainable phosphorus use but are challenging to transport and apply.
In addition, issues such as variability  in recovered phosphorus fertiliser nutrient content and stability, low micronutrient absorption in plants, and insufficient assessment of environmental impacts have led to low end-user uptake.
This exciting PhD project aims to develop a groundbreaking solution by using blends of organic waste residues as carriers for the creation of pelleted Organo-Mineral Fertilizers (OMFs) to enhance crop growth, yield, and quality, as well as improve soil health and sustainability, reducing the carbon footprint of crop production.
The project will involve the development of a range of pelleted OMFs by blending different combinations/ proportions of organic waste, with varying  levels of mineral macro-micronutrient supplementation and the use of state-of-the-art sensor technologies to compare OMFs nutrient release/availability patterns and assess the potential of multiple wheat genotypes to grow with OMFs.
Outputs will be scaled/validated on field trials, where the influence of OMFs accompanied by microbial biostimulants and nutrient-efficient wheat genotypes on enhancing soil health/nutrient dynamics will also be evaluated.
The project offers training covering cross-disciplinary technical and transferable skills.
Training would be provided via both partners for the use of (1) various multispectral 3D scanners for canopy/root phenotyping, and image analysis to visualize plant growth and calculate a wide variety of morphological/physiological parameters, and (2) AAS, ICP-MS for heavy metal analysis, Elementar analysers for carbon, segmental flow analyser for nitrate, and spectrophotometer for phosphorus analysis.
Other training opportunities include the attendance on MSc modules in areas such as soil science, plant genetics, and food quality or image/data processing, data mining, data programming in R/Python.
The student will also benefit from the University of Lincoln’s Graduate School training on research skills, scientific writing, and personal development.
The student will be supported by a lead supervisor and two co-supervisors representing different disciplines.
The lead supervisor will be providing overall guidance and feedback, while the other members of the team will be offering specialised support/ additional feedback.
In weekly one-to-one supervision and monthly full supervision team meetings progress, challenges, review of experimental results, and plan next steps will be discussed.
Written feedback will be provided within two weeks of submission while oral feedback will be given during meetings.
To effectively student track progress, clear action items/deadlines will be assigned, ensuring accountability and timely completion of tasks.
Decisions made, actions, and follow-up points will be minuted and shared with all participants for reference.
The student will also be providing regular progress reports summarizing completed tasks, ongoing work, and challenges faced.
This project is ideal for candidates with at least BSc (2:1) honours degree in Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Agronomy, Plant Science, Soil Science, Environmental and Biological Science, Geography, or Chemistry.
Candidates from disciplines which are not directly related to the project research area should demonstrate their ability to learn and apply new concepts and skills.
The School of Social and Political Sciences welcomes applications for its PhD Visiting Fellowship.
This opportunity is designed for doctoral researchers who wish to spend a period of time at Lincoln to develop their research, engage with academic staff, and take part in the School’s scholarly life.
Why Lincoln?
Choosing Lincoln means joining a welcoming, student-focused university in one of the UK’s most historic and beautiful cities.
With its stunning cathedral, medieval castle, and vibrant cultural life, the city offers a unique setting that combines heritage with a modern university experience.
Our city is known for its friendly atmosphere, compact and walkable centre, and affordable cost of living — ideal for focused academic work and a rich personal experience.
You’ll also find good transport links to London and other major cities.
About the School
The School of Social and Political Sciences is home to a dynamic community of researchers and academics.
Our areas of expertise include:
We are committed to critical inquiry, interdisciplinary collaboration, and making an impact through research, teaching, and public engagement.
Visiting Fellows are warmly welcomed into this environment.
For more information about the academics and their research, please look through our staff list .
Eligibility
The Visiting Fellowship is open to those currently undertaking a PhD in the social sciences (or related subjects).
Applicants should have a clear research plan and an interest in participating in the School’s academic life.
What the Fellowship Includes
PhD Visiting Fellows will receive:
Fellows are also invited to deliver a guest lecture to staff and students within our school.
Duration, Fees, and Support
Fellowships are available for up to 12 months , with a monthly fee of £200 .
The start date and duration are flexible and can be agreed based on your needs and the school's capacity.
For international applicants, the school will issue a letter of sponsorship to support visa applications.
We advise applying well in advance to allow time for travel and visa arrangements.
To apply, please complete our short online form .
We strongly recommend that you contact relevant staff prior to submitting your application.
The University of Lincoln has joined the South and East Network for Social Sciences (SENSS) Doctoral Training Partnership with a number of other leading UK universities to help train the next generation of social scientists via a range of fully funded research studentships.
In collaboration with leading partner institutions, the University of Lincoln has secured £10.9m in funding to establish a transformative Centre for Doctoral Training to support innovative research in the application of Artificial Intelligence to sustainable agri-food.
A range of fully funded studentships is now available.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/researchatlincoln/researchethicsandintegrity:
The University of Lincoln is committed to encouraging research of the highest quality by supporting good conduct and helping to prevent misconduct.
It aims to uphold the commitments outlined in the UUK Concordat to support Research Integrity (the concordat), which provide a comprehensive national framework for good research conduct and its governance to:
The University of Lincoln’s Code of Practice for Research provides a comprehensive framework for good research conduct and the governance of all research carried out across the University.
The Code of Practice for Research sets out the principles governing the conduct of research by individual researchers and the University; and lists the fundamental standards for good practice in research with which both researchers and the institution should comply.
The University of Lincoln’s Research Ethics Policy is intended to support good conduct in research, in order to encourage research of the highest quality.
It provides general principles and standards for good ethical practice in research, for the individual researcher (staff member or student) and the institution as a whole.
The University of Lincoln seeks to:
The University Research Integrity and Ethics Committee (URIEC) has oversight of the principles and practices of ethical research conduct across the University, specifically the Human and Non-Human Research Ethics Committees.
It works in unison with the Research Committee to ensure that the Human/Non-Human Research Ethics Committees are supported to implement, monitor, and report on the ethical research conduct in their respective disciplines.
For more information about the University of Lincoln’s governance structure, visit the Committee Structure page.
Further information regarding research ethics, or the research ethics application process, may be found on the University's Research Ethics portal page or by emailing ethics@lincoln.ac.uk .
The Human Tissue Authority (HTA) was set up to regulate the removal, storage, use, and disposal of human bodies, organs, and tissue for a number of scheduled purposes.
These include research, education, and training, and are set out in the Human Tissue Act 2004 (HT Act).
In order for the University to store human tissue or hold human tissue material for research purposes, including cadaveric material, or to hold material for anatomical examination or teaching purposes, the institution requires a licence.
The University of Lincoln holds a Human Tissue Authority Licence (Research #12678).
The Corporate Licence holder is the University of Lincoln.
The Designated Individual (DI) is Professor Jon Whitehead.
The Human Tissue Oversight Group (HTOG) ensures its compliance with the Act under the terms and conditions of its license.
Further information regarding the storage or use of Human Tissue may be found on the University's Human Tissue portal page or by emailing HTOG@lincoln.ac.uk .
The University of Lincoln expects all staff, students, and non-members conducting research on University premises to observe the highest standards of ethics and integrity.
The Deputy Vice Chancellor for Research and Innovation has overall responsibility for research integrity, and the University’s Procedure for the Investigation of Misconduct of Research (UKRIO) outlines the steps to follow in potential cases of research misconduct.
You can our Annual Statement on Research Integrity below:
Annual Statement of Research Integrity 2023/24
Anyone wishing to raise concerns about the integrity of research can do so in confidence by contacting:
Further information can be found on the Research Misconduct portal page .
Alternatively, you can email ethics@lincoln.ac.uk .
Privacy Notice for Research Participants
The University privacy notice for research participants should be read in conjunction with a participant information sheet made available to you by the research study you are taking part in.
This contains details about the personal information collected for the particular project that concerns you.
The University of Lincoln (We) aim to conduct research to the highest standards of research integrity.
Our research outcomes are in the public interest.
As part of our commitment to research integrity, we follow the UK General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR) and the UK Data Protection Act 2018 (DPA), (hereafter referred as UK data protection law).
In the case of health and care research, we also follow the UK Policy Framework for Health and Social Care Research.
We promise to respect the confidentiality and sensitivity of the personal information that you provide to us, that we get from other organisations, and that we share with other collaborating organisations (such as other Universities or our research funders).
We will tell you how we will use your information, how we will keep it safe and who it will be shared with.
We commit to keeping your personal information secure and will not use it to contact you for any other purpose unless you have agreed to this.
Research has a special status under UK data protection law.
Research conducted by our staff and postgraduate research students (those studying for a PhD or Masters in Philosophy) is defined as making an original contribution to knowledge which is published in order to share that knowledge.
Research projects may also be conducted by undergraduate and taught postgraduate (Masters in Arts / Science etc.) students to fulfil the requirements of their programme of study.
Although these projects are not intended to make an original contribution to knowledge, nor are they usually published, they are essential to the student’s education and are therefore included under our definition of research.
We are usually the Data Controller for research studies.
This means that we will decide how your personal information is created, collected, used, shared, archived, and deleted(processed).
When we do this, we will ensure that we collect only what is necessary for the project and that you have agreed to this.
If any other organisation will make decisions about your information, this will be made clear in the participant information sheet provided to you.
If more than one organisation works together on a project, there may be two or more Data Controllers for a specific project.
If this happens, the organisations will have agreements in place which outline their responsibilities and details of this will be make clear in the Participant Information Sheet, provided to you.
Information About You
‘Personal data’ means any information which can identify you.
It can include information such as your name, gender, date of birth, address / postcode, or other information such as your opinions or thoughts.
It can also include information which makes it possible to identify you, even if your name has been removed (such as quotes or social media postings).
We will only ever collect personal information that is appropriate and necessary for the specific research project being conducted.
The specific information that we will collect about you will be listed in the Participant Information Sheet, given to you by the research team.
We may process some information about you that is considered to be ‘sensitive’ and this is called ‘special category’ personal data.
This includes, but is not limited to, information such as your ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender identity, religious beliefs, details about your health or past criminal convictions.
These types of personal information require additional protections, particularly in relation to sharing, which the University ensures are in place.
Under UK data protection law we must have special safeguards in place to help protect your rights and freedoms when using your personal information and these are:
In addition to the above University safeguards the UK GDPR and the DPA also require us to meet the following standards when we conduct research with your personal information:
(a) the research will not cause damage or distress to someone (e.g., physical harm, financial loss or psychological pain) and will be subject to ethical review by a university research ethics committee.
(b) the research is not carried out in order to do or decide something in relation to an individual person or their care, unless the processing is for medical research approved by a research ethics committee.
(c) the Data Controller has technical and organisational safeguards in place (e.g.
appropriate staff training and security measures).
(d) if processing a special category of data, this must be subject to a further public interest test to make sure this particularly sensitive information is required to meet the research objectives.
The Legal Part
Data protection law requires us to have a valid legal reason to process and use personal data about you.
This is often called a ‘legal basis’.
UK GDPR requires us to be explicit with you about the legal basis upon which we rely in order to process information about you.
For research the legal reason is “Processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the controller” (Article6oftheUKGDPR):
For sensitive information the legal reason is: “the processing is necessary for archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific or historical research purposes or statistical purposes...
which shall be proportionate to the aim pursued, respect the essence of the right to data protection and provide for suitable and specific measures to safeguard the fundamental rights and the interests of the data subject” .
(Article 9 of the U K GDPR).
When research involves criminal convictions, the legal reason is listed in Schedule 1 of the Data Protection Act 2018 which requires that special safeguards are in place.
Where we need to rely on a different legal reason, such as consent, this will be listed in the Participant Information Sheet provided to you.
In clinical trials or medical studies, for example, we may use the following reason:
“Processing is necessary for the purposes of preventive or occupational medicine, for the assessment of the working capacity of the employee, medical diagnosis, the provision of health or social care or treatment or the management of health or social care systems and services on the basis of Union or Member State law or pursuant to contract with a health professional and subject to the conditions and safeguards”.
We may also use your personal information for additional research purposes, such as other analysis or future projects on the same research topics.
This is known as a secondary use or purpose.
If we want to do this it will be explained to you in the Participant Information Sheet and we will ensure that your information will not be used in ways which might have a direct impact on you (such as damage or distress) or will lead to decisions being made about you.
Sharing Your Information
Your personal information will be kept confidential at all times and researchers are asked to de-identify it (anonymise), pseudonymise (remove any information which can identify you such as your name and replace this with a unique code or key) or delete it as soon as possible.
However, in some cases it may not be possible to de-identify your information as it is necessary in order to achieve the aims of the research.
If this is the case you will be informed of this in the Participant Information Sheet.
Your personal information as well as any de-identified information will only be shared with members of the research team in order to conduct the project.
If they need to share your information with anyone else including anyone outside of the UK, you will be told who they are and why this is the case in the Participant Information Sheet.
We also sometimes use products or services provided by third parties to conduct research activities or share research data, such as Microsoft collaboration products e.g.
OneDrive Teams, Forms, JISC online surveys, or other online communication tools.
These third parties are known as data processors and when we use them, we have agreements in place to ensure your information is kept safe.
This does not always mean that they access your information but if they do this will be outlined in the Participant Information Sheet.
As Data Controller, we will always carry out due diligence in respect of the use of third parties in order to keep your information safe throughout the research.
We will only keep your personal information for as long as necessary to complete the aims of the research.
However, some personal information (including signed records of consent) will be kept for a minimum amount of time as required by external funders or our policies and procedures.
Your personal information will be deleted from our systems:
Research data (including signed records of consent) will be kept for a minimum of 5 years (this will be anonymised or pseudo-anonymised) after the research is completed except:
If you access additional University services these may keep a record of your contact and will provide you with details of how long they keep your information.
For some research projects, your de-identified or pseudonymised information will be kept after the project has ended, placed into a data repository / online archive for sharing with other researchers or used in future research.
If the researchers would like to do this with your information you will be told in the Participant Information Sheet.
When using research repositories, researchers are often required to upload their supporting or underlying data which may be identifiable or sensitive.
The repositories have technical controls in place to ensure that only authorised individuals can access the information.
Obtaining Information About You From Other Organisations
On occasion, other organisations share personal information about you with our research teams, your information is treated in the same way as the information we collect directly from you in accordance with appropriate laws and technical standards.
The suppliers of this data are usually official bodies, such as NHS Digital, NHS England, the Home Office, or the Department of Education..
When your data is supplied by those organisations, our research teams will publish privacy information on dedicated websites.
Your Rights
By law, you have rights in relation to the personal information we hold about you.
These include the right to:
These rights only apply to your information before it is anonymised as once this happens we can no longer identify your specific information.
Sometimes your rights may be limited if it would prevent or delay the research.
If this happens you will be informed by the research team but you still have rights to complain to our Data Protection Officer and if you are still not satisfied you also have the right to complain about this to the Information Commissioner.
In some instances, we may have asked for your consent to use your personal information for research purposes (e.g.
to contact you to take part in future research).
If we asked for your consent, you can withdraw this at any time; you should have already been told how to do this but if not, or if you are in doubt, please use the contact details below.
Please note that your consent to use your personal information is separate from your ethical consent to participate in a particular research study (which we usually request for relevant types of research).
If you have any questions about how your personal information is used, or wish to exercise any of your rights, please consult the University’s data protection webpages.
If you need further assistance, please contact the University’s Data Protection Officers, at compliance@lincoln.ac.uk or write to:
Information Compliance, Secretariat, University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool, Lincoln, LN6 7TS.
You can also make complaints directly to the Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO).
The ICO is the independent authority upholding information rights for the UK.
Their website is ico.org.uk and their telephone helpline number is 0303 123 1113.
The University of Lincoln Gender Equality Plan (GEP) is a compilation of a number of documents which meet all of the European Commission’s requirements, as outlined below, and include: work-life balance and organisational culture; gender balance and leadership and decision-making; gender equality in recruitment and career progression; integration of the gender dimension into research and teaching content; and measures against gender based violence including sexual harassment.
One requirement for receiving Horizon Europe funding is that higher education institutions established in Member States or Associated Countries have a Gender Equality Plan (GEP).
At the University of Lincoln, we understand the importance of providing staff and students with the best possible environment for pursuing research that can support our communities, improve lives, and change the world.
The Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers is an agreement between funders and employers of research staff to improve the employment and support for research careers in UK higher education.
Through our research, we are striving to change society for the better - whether that is connecting individuals and communities through shared local heritage, or contributing to international efforts to address global grand challenges.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/servicesforbusiness:
At the University of Lincoln, we are industry-led and informed, collaborating with private, public, and third sector businesses to drive innovation and productivity across our county and beyond, solving real-world industry challenges along the way.
Whether you're looking to upskill and empower your existing workforce, access funding, recruit graduate talent, support your start-up, or collaborate on a research project, we’re confident that we can help you find the right solution.
Our expertise includes top-tier consultancy services, advanced specialist centres, collaborative research initiatives, and Knowledge Transfer Partnerships, driving innovation and impactful solutions across industries.
Our services empower business growth through support for startups, Knowledge Transfer Partnerships, funding access, and initiatives like Lincoln Be Smarter and Student Enterprises, fueling innovation and success.
Supporting growth through bespoke programmes tailored to team needs, flexible learning options for self-paced upskilling, and apprenticeships that blend hands-on experience with structured learning.
We work with partners across Defence & Security, Net-zero, Health, Heritage, Agri-food, and Digital and Creative sectors, fostering innovation, sustainability, and growth to address diverse industry challenges.
With cutting-edge facilities such as materials laboratories, prototyping workshops, technology centres, and TV production and performance suites we have a range of facilities suited to any business need.
Engaging with their talent can enable your business to gain a competitive edge, whether you are looking to launch new products, inject fresh ideas into your business or develop more efficient ways of working.
We deliver a range of industry-facing events across all three of our campuses and the county of Greater Lincolnshire.
These include informal networking, workshops, conferences, Career Fairs, sector-specific briefings and ‘Dragon’s Den’-style opportunities for businesses.
If you are interested in finding out how the University of Lincoln could help your business or organisation, get in touch with our Research and Enterprise Team and we will work with you to find a solution that's right for you.
Contact the Enterprise Team

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/servicesforbusiness/ourexpertise:
We strive to achieve societal and economic impact through a commitment to fostering strong partnerships with industry, providing support and expertise to drive innovation and advancement.
Whether you're seeking cutting-edge research solutions, expert guidance, or access to world-class resources, our dedicated team of academics and professionals are here to collaborate with you every step of the way, transforming ideas into tangible outcomes that shape the future.
Work with us to utilise our expertise, capabilities, and resources to generate new insight, ideas, solve problems and, together, generate valuable solutions.
We have a growing number of specialist centres that provide research and support geared to meet the specific needs and challenges of their respective industries.
We seek to collaborate and apply original research, innovative knowledge, or pioneering solutions to critical challenges faced by businesses.
KTPs are an Innovate UK initiative to connect business with academic expertise to solve strategic problems and generate real innovation.
Get in touch to explore tailored solutions with the University of Lincoln and unlock your business potential.
Our specialist centres will work with the specific needs and challenges of your industry to find tailor-made solutions to grow your business through advice, consultancy, research, and support.
Specialist Solutions
Gain access to our range of state-of-the-art facilities including materials laboratories, prototyping workshops, technology centres, and TV production and performance suites to advance your business.
Explore Our Facilities
We take pride in our extensive network of impressive partners, fostering sustainable, long-term relationships with a diverse array of organisations.
Industry Links

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/servicesforbusiness/start-ups:
At Lincoln, we're passionate about supporting entrepreneurs at any stage of their journey and helping to get their business idea off the ground.
We currently offer four main avenues of support to those looking to start or scale-up a business: Sparkhouse, Enterprise, Think Tank, and Student Enterprise.
Our dedicated Enterprise and Innovation Team are on hand to help support you throughout your time with us, and we provide a range of services and guidance to help give your business a boost.
A thriving business incubation centre on the University's Brayford Pool Campus.
Home to a wide range of creative, innovative, and tech-based businesses, Sparkhouse has supported over 1000 businesses.
Enterprise is the perfect place for businesses looking to grow, develop, expand their offering, and establish themselves.
Our offices are modern and light with all the amenities a business would need.
Lincoln's leading business innovation centre, Think Tank is designed to support established businesses looking to scale-up their product or service and innovate in their field.
A dedicated team supporting students and graduates looking to explore self-employment of any kind with events, workshops, funding, networking, mentoring, and free resources.
Whether it be through tenancies at Sparkhouse, Enterprise, or Think Tank, or involvement with Student Enterprise, we can support your journey as a business owner in a number of ways
We recognise that in the early stages of business ownership, being able to keep costs low is a massive help.
We offer staggered affordable rent at Sparkhouse and Enterprise and competitive rental prices at Think Tank.
We also offer virtual office spaces for businesses looking to set-up a formal business address.
We offer business mentoring with all of our physical tenancies at Sparkhouse and Enterprise.
Whether you're figuring out those early stages or looking to expand, the free mentoring service can be vital in ensuring that you as a business owner achieve both your short-term and long-term goals.
With strong links to key organisations and networks across Lincoln, such as the Federation of Small Businesses, Greater Lincolnshire Local Enterprise Partnership, Business Lincolnshire, City of Lincoln Council, and Barclays Eagle Labs, we are expertly placed to be able to help you integrate into the business community through networking and events.
Having started out with an office at Sparkhouse, before moving to Enterprise and now recently moving into Think Tank, I can honestly say that without the support and guidance from the teams at Sparkhouse and Think Tank I would not still be running a business.
The staggered rent was a massive help starting out and the advice from our business mentor gave me the confidence to take the agency forward.
Thomas Atkins
Founder & Managing Director, Identity Agency
Entering the world of self-employment is one of the most rewarding and exciting things you can do, but we know that it can be difficult knowing where to start.
At Student Enterprise, we help students and graduates gain the skills and knowledge that ensures they have a strong base to build their business from.
We engaged with 327 University of Lincoln students in the 2022/23 academic year, supported over 85 graduate start-ups and ran over 40 workshops and events.
Our flagship event, the Student Enterprise Conference held in February, saw a record number of students attend in February 2024, with over 60 students joining us for the day.
Find out more about the 2024 conference .
We hold regular, tailored workshops to help you gain the skills you need.
Our experienced professionals can help you with any challenges you may be facing.
We can help you to gain access to seed funding to kickstart your business.
Elevate your profile by entering competitions and gaining recognition.
Meet likeminded people, and experienced professionals who can help guide you on your journey.
We have a dedicated space that you can use within Sparkhouse to work from, you can get in touch with us to find out more about usage.
enterprise@lincoln.ac.uk
01522 837 200

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/servicesforbusiness/developyourstaff:
We believe that valued people are at the heart of every successful business.
By investing in their development, your organisation can be better prepared for future challenges, with improved productivity and innovative thinking from your teams.
Whether you’re looking to invest in further qualifications or want to improve your working culture, the University of Lincoln can help you to empower and upskill your staff.
Choose from our professionally accredited range of courses or chat to our team about bespoke solutions, tailored to your individual business needs.
Enquire Now
Lincoln International Business School offers a range of services to develop effective leadership skills for individuals, teams, and organisations.
We offer a range of distance learning management courses tailored to those in Business, HR, Logistics, and Engineering roles.
Our Health and Wellbeing Hub works with health service providers to deliver specialist programmes in healthcare and social work.
As an approved learning provider under the Armed Forces Enhanced Learning Credits (ELC) scheme, our military programmes are designed for serving and ex-serving members of all three services, as well as their MoD civilian colleagues.
Lincoln Institute of Agri-Food Technology provides essential professional development to working farmers and agronomists through our accredited BASIS and FACTs courses.
The National Centre for Food Manufacturing (NCFM) offers part-time distance learning degrees, as well as industry-led short courses.
The College of Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities offers a range of short-courses and workshops within media, fashion, conservation, and art that can help to boost your career prospects, or build on your hobbies and interests.
These CPD courses are designed to enable you to embrace digitalisation and offer a specifically-designed programme for your business aimed at upskilling your workforce with relevant digitalisation competencies.
Degree Apprenticeships offer an alternative to traditional degrees and have been developed in collaboration with employers and professional bodies to ensure they meet the specific needs of industry.
We can offer bespoke solutions, designed to help you get the learning you and your teams need, precisely when and where you want it.
Options include team workshops, short courses, online learning, and longer-term development plans, including degree apprenticeships.
We're proud to have provided bespoke programmes for various clients, including the Lincolnshire Co-operative, United Lincolnshire Hospitals Trust, Bakkavor, and St Barnabas Hospice.
“The University of Lincoln's support has been really beneficial in terms of developing and up-skilling existing employees, giving us a pathway to our early careers and new employees joining our business.
It’s really important to have that strong relationship with the University of Lincoln to ensure that we, going forward, have the best possible opportunities for our people.”
- Sharon Blyfield, Coca Cola European Partners
"As a construction company, most of our 600 employees are transient in their working locations, making it essential to have leaders and managers with excellent communication skills.
We searched for an innovative way of delivering this training and partnered with Dr.
Roger Bretherton, Associate Professor in the School of Psychology.
Roger's approach to Communication Skills training was innovative, thought provoking and enjoyable.
The feedback we received was excellent.
We wanted training that wasn't an 'off the shelf' course and the University of Lincoln certainly delivered."
- Sara Hobson, Project Manager - Training, Lindum Group Ltd
"Our Executive Team attended a workshop facilitated by the Lincoln International Business School looking at how we currently operate.
They helped us to review our focus and our future development objectives.
This gave us a sound basis on which to develop a framework for increasing our performance as a team going forward."
- Chris Wheway, Chief Executive Officer, St Barnabas Hospice
If you would like to find out more about how we can support the training and development needs of you workforce, please get in touch.
Email Us
Research and Enterprise University of Lincoln Brayford Pool Lincoln LN6 7TS
UK: 0800 915 5278
International: +44 (0)1522 837200

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/servicesforbusiness/whoweworkwith:
We have a track record of successful collaborations across a broad range of business sectors, public organisations and charities.
Our expertise and resources have helped our partners overcome strategic challenges, provided new insights, skills, and know-how.
Big or small, local and global, our collaborations with industry have demonstrated real impact, created value, and made a difference.
As an anchor institution to a region possessing a rich military heritage, the University of Lincoln seeks to engage with our defence and security community by sharing knowledge, developing skills, and encouraging innovation through collaborative research.
Whether it is engaging industry experts to address specific skills gaps by launching new academic programmes or pursuing cutting-edge research to solve real-world commercial challenges, we have built a reputation for understanding and responding to the needs of business.
We are proud of our industry partnerships and continue to build sustainable long-term relationships with a diverse range of organisations.
Our goal is to help drive local, regional, and national economic growth by delivering the skills industry needs while ensuring our students benefit from the connections we make.
In 2009, in collaboration with Siemens (and now Siemens Energy), the University of Lincoln established the first dedicated new engineering school to be created in the UK for more than two decades.
This long-standing collaboration has won a string of national awards and acclaim, including a prestigious Lord Stafford Award and a Times Higher Education Award.
By incorporating industry input into course content, providing work experience placements, and offering valuable opportunities to contribute to cutting-edge research, graduates are prepared to make an immediate contribution on entering the workplace.
The Lincoln Science & Innovation Park was created as part of a joint venture between the University of Lincoln and Lincolnshire Co-op.
The science park's Joseph Bank Laboratories are home to more than 1,000 staff and students in science subjects, while the Boole Technology Centre provides flexible commercial space for innovative tech businesses.
Lincoln Science Park
The University of Lincoln is a member of the Santander Universities Global Division.
The scheme provides funding for staff and students to benefit from international scholarships, mobility awards, and research grants, as well as providing internships placing talented new graduates with local small and medium-sized businesses.
Our Partnership
The University of Lincoln has teamed up with one of the world's most trusted media outlets, The Guardian, to help current and prospective students stay up-to-date and informed as they navigate the world of UK higher education.
The Guardian
The GLEAM network is an exciting new initiative founded by the School of Engineering and Physical Sciences and Greater Lincolnshire Local Enterprise Partnership (GLLEP) Manufacturing Board.
The network offers huge potential to support the manufacturing sector across the region and bridge the gap between academia and manufacturing businesses.
The network will work to support the growth and development of SMEs by promoting best practice, manufacturing solutions, and partnership opportunities.
GLEAM also aims to showcase technological advances, cutting-edge thinking, and act as a knowledge-transfer vehicle between academia and industry.
Attend events, engage with fellow industry-specialists and tackle some of the challenges facing the sector as part of a wider community.
GLEAM-Network

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/servicesforbusiness/networkingandevents:
At the University of Lincoln, we aim to share our knowledge and expertise while bringing businesses together.
We offer a range of opportunities and events for businesses to engage with the University, our students, and other organisations in various sectors, enabling them to share ideas and create opportunities for innovation and development.
Our business events include informal networking, workshops, conferences, sector specific briefings and ‘Dragon’s Den’-style opportunities for businesses.
We also support our partners in delivering their events to provide opportunities for peer-learning, engagement with experts and shared experiences, as well as collaborative working.
We deliver an annual calendar of events across Lincolnshire.
Topics can include innovation, collaborative research and digital-led technology within different sectors, exploring exporting, and general marketing support and advice.
We strive to offer a different experience at each of our events to ensure out attendees gain the most from the day and continue to gain an insight into the business support services available across the University.
The Greater Lincolnshire Engineering And Manufacturing (GLEAM) Network is an initiative founded by the School of Engineering and Physical Sciences, Greater Lincolnshire Local Enterprise Partnership (GLLEP), and Business Lincolnshire.
The network aims to solve sector-wide challenges and establish a community for our region's manufacturing businesses to connect.
Ignite is a quarterly networking event hosted by Sparkhouse, the University's incubation centre for start-up companies.
The event provides a range of opportunities to meet with other businesses and hear from key guest speakers covering a current topic of interest for small businesses.
Visit the Sparkhouse website to find out more.
Our Careers and Employability team help employers and students connect, building relationships to develop their recruitment pipelines.
Our team of career professionals are experts in the graduate labour market, offering free consultancy to businesses looking to recruit graduates.
If you have an opportunity that you want to reach a specific pool or larger audience, our board vacancy system, which emails our students and graduates vacancies, could be of interest.
Please speak with our team: employers@lincoln.ac.uk.
Information for Employers

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/servicesforbusiness/ourfacilities:
Most of our specialist equipment is based within one of our research or specialist centres.
We’ve got state-of the-art materials laboratories, prototyping workshops, technology centres, and TV production and performance suites.
We also have impressive conference and meeting venues across our two campuses, Brayford Pool and Riseholme Park , offering the ultimate flexibility to create the size, type, and style of event your business may need.
In these venues, our in-house hospitality team prides itself on working with local, seasonal produce to create menus for all occasions and dietary needs.
Not to mention, you can give your delegates the complete on-campus experience with our accommodation including modern en-suite bedrooms, available outside of term time and all within walking distance of our Brayford facilities.
We collaborate across industries, science, engineering, and manufacturing to advance materials research and innovation.
From our state-of-the-art facility, we analyse, test, synthesise, and evaluate materials, driving innovation for businesses through advanced materials solutions.
The Lincoln Conservation facilities offer humidity, temperature, light, and dust monitoring; colour, pigment, XRF, FTIR, X-ray, and thermal imaging analysis; historic mortar and paint analysis; a studio for object and painting restoration; and remote environmental monitoring.
Our dedicated training facility offers flexible courses to help employees advance their careers.
Industry partnerships are central to our research agenda.
With strong sector links and academic collaboration, our multidisciplinary food industry research supports growth and tackles key challenges.
As a leading UK centre for food-agritech, we partner with industry and organisations to drive innovation and improve food and agriculture productivity, efficiency, and sustainability through cutting-edge research, education, and technology.
The historic City of Lincoln, with its Castle and Cathedral, makes the University of Lincoln ideal for business events.
We offer flexible venues and expert staff to ensure your event runs smoothly.
Contact Us Visit Campus Services
Our facilities include TV studios with LED lighting and seating for 120, 4K and slow-motion filming, VR/AR, green screen, photo studios, and audio/video production suites for recording and editing.
Our facilities offer 3D printing, CNC milling, flat-bed routing, laser cutting/engraving (wood, plastics, more), and 3D scanning for objects, interiors, and buildings.
Our facilities include VR computers, building simulation software, surveying equipment, drones, thermal imaging, environmental dataloggers, cameras, light meters, sound meters, and anemometers.
Our performing arts centre includes a ground-floor theatre with retractable seating for 400+, a workshop for set and prop manufacture, and dance, performance, and rehearsal studios.
Contact Us Visit Lincoln Arts Centre
The Moot Court at Lincoln Law School simulates a real courtroom with a judge's bench, witness stand, clerk's desk, and prosecution/defence solicitor benches for mock trials and legal practice.
Our Business Incubation Centres support innovative new and fledgling businesses with mentoring, office space, funding opportunities, and networking events.
Our facilities include regular and large-format digital printers, digital fabric printing, vinyl cutting for signage and exhibitions, and silk screen printing, etching, relief, and intaglio.
The University’s Brayford Pool Campus is located in the heart of our historic city, set on the picturesque Brayford Pool waterfront.
With striking modern buildings and open spaces, it provides the perfect mix of creative and traditional spaces to suit your event needs.
Riseholme Park is our rural campus set on the edge of the city of Lincoln, providing a tranquil meeting and event setting within our stunning 200-hectare estate.
Allow the woodlands, watercourses, grasslands, and working farm inspire your next event.
Work with our business development teams to discuss your challenges and business problems and we will seek to find the appropriate academic experts and facilities.
We may also be able to help identify possible sources of funding to advance your business development projects.
We have a growing number of specialist centres that provides advice, consultancy, research and support geared to meet the needs and challenges of their respective industries.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/servicesforbusiness/graduaterecruitment:
If you have an opportunity that you want to reach a specific pool or larger audience, our board vacancy system , which emails our students and graduates vacancies, could be of interest.
Vacancy Advertising Whatever the role, it's easy to recruit our talented students and graduates through our online vacancy service CareerLinc.
You can use the Careers & Employability service to advertise for part-time positions, summer placements and graduate roles.
Internships The Lincoln Internship Programme delivers a high quality, tailored package of support to business by removing barriers to recruitment, making the process easy by saving costs, time and offers a limited number of one-off small grants towards employment costs.
SMEs may also be eligible for internship funding via our Productivity Programme
Raise Your Profile Our various on-campus activities and events are ideal for promoting your brand and business to our student talent pool.
Why not have a stand at our "Find Your Feet" Careers Fair, deliver a presentation to prospective candidates or even take part in our mock Assessment Centre days?
Get in Touch
If you have an opportunity you could offer one of our students or graduates, please contact the Careers team and we will explore the best possible avenues for you.
Careers University of Lincoln Brayford Pool Lincoln LN6 7TS
careers@lincoln.ac.uk
+44 (0)1522 837828

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/eventsandconferences:
The University of Lincoln hosts a wide range of events throughout the year, right here on campus.
With a host of entertainment venues showcasing the best in live music, comedy, theatre, and a packed schedule of University events and opportunities to visit us, there is always plenty going on.
The wider city of Lincoln is also home to a lively programme of festivals, and the city boasts a range of museums and public art galleries offering a diverse calendar of events throughout the year.
The University of Lincoln also offers a range of flexible spaces and venues for hire to suit a range of events including business meetings and conferences.
View all Events
Our Brayford Pool Campus is home to Lincoln's largest live entertainment venue, The Engine Shed , which is run by our Students' Union and hosts live music, club nights, comedy, and more.
Next door is Lincoln Arts Centre, which prides itself on a variety of contemporary visual and performing arts.
The city is also home to many more popular venues, including the Drill and the New Theatre Royal Lincoln.
Entertainment for Everyone
There's always plenty going on across the city, from comedy to live concerts, sports to steampunk, and food festivals to family fun.
Find out more about what's happening across the city and the wider county.
Our Students' Union hosts a huge calendar of events, including annual student fayres, sports training sessions, regular society events, and TV sport and event watchalongs.
The University of Lincoln offers a range of opportunities for prospective students to discover more about the University, the courses we offer, and the wider city.
27 Sep 2025
More Details
1 Oct 2025
12 Oct 2025
8 Nov 2025
All Open Days and Visits
We host a variety of events throughout the year designed for our current and prospective international students.
Our webinars, subject masterclasses, question and answer sessions, and student panel talks can help you prepare for your exciting journey to the UK and the University of Lincoln.
Our regular online events include virtual conferences and online workshops, live Q&A events, and supportive webinars.
All Virtual Events
Our public lectures and seminars offer the opportunity for students and the general public to hear from leading academics and specialists on a range of exciting topics.
The University of Lincoln hosts a range of local and national conferences and networking events throughout the year, offering the opportunity for academic leaders and industry professionals to share ideas and make connections.
If you are looking to host an event, we offer a range of flexible spaces and venues to suit your business meeting, conference, and event requirements.
You can find out more on our conferences pages .
16 Sep 2025
17 Sep 2025
All Conferences and Networking
Each year, several thousand students become graduates of the University of Lincoln at our spectacular graduation ceremonies, held in the magnificent Lincoln Cathedral.
The city is also host several celebration events throughout the year, including Holi, Festival of Colours and events for International Women's Day.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/eventsandconferences/upcomingevents:
At Lincoln, we have a busy calendar of events across the year.
From Open Days and visits to public lectures and events across the city, take a look below to find out what we've got coming up.
Celebration events x City events x Conferences and networking x Exhibitions and fairs x International visits x Lectures and seminars x Open days and visits x Other x Virtual events x Workshops x
19 Nov 2025
29 Nov 2025

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studentlife/graduation:
The ceremonies are the most important events in the University's calendar, marking the culmination of many years of hard work and dedication from our students, and giving family, friends, and staff at the University the opportunity to congratulate our new graduates and celebrate their achievements.
When you graduate from the University of Lincoln you will become part of our global alumni community, which is made up of more than 130,000 graduates from more than 150 countries.
As a graduate of the University, you can access a wide range of benefits and services wherever you are in the world.
September ceremonies will take place from 8-15 September 2025.
Monday 8 September 2025
College of Health and Science
School of Psychology, Sport Science and Wellbeing*
School of Psychology, Sport Science and Wellbeing Breakdown
School of Natural Sciences*
School of Natural Sciences Graduation Ceremony Breakdown
School of Health and Care Sciences
Lincoln Medical School
School of Agri- Food Technology and Manufacturing
School of Engineering and Physical Sciences
No Ceremony
Wednesday 10 September 2025
College of Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities
Lincoln School of Creative Arts
Lincoln Law School
Lincoln School of Design and Architecture
Thursday 11 September 2025
Lincoln International Business School*
Lincoln International Business School Ceremony Breakdowns
Lincoln International Business School *
Monday 15 September 2025
School of Education and Communication
School of Social and Political Sciences
Lincoln School of Humanities and Heritage
You would have received a registration email for your graduation ceremony.
To register, you will need your registration email, with your personalised login details which will provide access to the online registration site at William Northam.
Fill in the details in the new customer box, then enter your university student ID, surname, and then your University email address (as noted in the invitation email).
Once you have created an account you will be able to amend your email address and other contact details by selecting the ‘my details’ option.
Please make a note of all login details, as you may need these for purchasing extra tickets in the future.
The online site will allow you to register your place at the ceremony, purchase guest tickets, and organise gown hire.
A confirmation email will be sent to the email address you provide during registration as proof of your booking.
This email address will be used to send future correspondence regarding the ceremony.
Please ensure you fully complete the registration process and provide your correct details.
If you do not receive the confirmation email, please log back in and check your booking.
Please ensure you book your gown well in advance of your graduation date by visiting the gowning website (William Northam).
You will need your registration email, with your personalised login details which will provide access to the online registration site at William Northam.
You will need to collect your gown on the day from the gowning marquee located in the Castle grounds.
Please ensure you have your email confirmation ready.
The deadline to book your gown for the September 2025 ceremonies is 11.59pm on 24th July.
All Graduands who register before the deadline of the 24th July 2025 are entitled to purchase two guest tickets at the time of booking.
Ticket prices are as follows:
Guest seating is not allocated.
If your guests have any specific requirements (e.g.
for health or mobility reasons), please make note of this in your booking via the William Northam booking site and the graduation team will assist where possible.
Children
Children aged one or under can attend the ceremony free of charge, providing that they sit on a guest's lap .
In order to monitor capacity,  please indicate when booking if you are bringing any children aged one or under with you.
Extra guest tickets will be subject to availability.
The number of extra tickets available for each registered graduand to purchase will be calculated for each ceremony after the initial registration has closed at 11.59pm on 24 July.
If extra tickets are available, these will be limited in number and sold on a first come first serve basis.
All graduands who have registered to attend a ceremony will be notified by email any details regarding extra tickets.
10.30am Ceremony
All graduands must arrive between 8.00am and 9.30am.
On arrival, please go to Lincoln Castle to collect your tickets and gown.
There will also be an opportunity for photographs to be taken before the ceremony begins.
The doors to the Cathedral will open at 9.30am and the ceremony will begin at 10.30am .
All guests and graduands MUST be seated by 10.00am.
Gowning and Photography
Gowns are to be collected from the Castle between 8.00am and 9.30am.
Ushers will direct you upon arrival.
All gowns must be returned by 1.00pm.
The official photographers will be taking photographs in the Castle from 8.00am to 9.30am before the ceremony and also after the ceremony.
There is no need to pre-book any photography.
2.30pm Ceremony
All graduands must arrive between 11.30am and 1.30pm.
The doors to the Cathedral will open at 1.30pm and the ceremony will begin at 2.30pm.
All guests and graduands MUST be seated by 2.00pm.
Gowns are to be collected from the Castle between 12.00pm and 1.30pm.
All gowns must be returned by 5.00pm.
The official photographers will be taking photographs in the Castle from 12.00pm to 1.30pm before the ceremony and also after the ceremony until 5.00pm.
7.30pm Ceremony
All graduands must arrive between 5.00pm and 6.30pm.
The doors to the Cathedral will open at 6.30pm and the ceremony will begin at 7.30pm.
All guests and graduands MUST be seated by 7.00pm.
Gowns are to be collected from the  Castle between 5.00pm and 6.30pm.
All gowns must be returned by 10.00pm.
The official photographers will be taking photographs in the Castle from 5.00 pm to 6.30pm before the ceremony and also after the ceremony until 9.30pm.
The ceremony will take place at Lincoln Cathedral , please ensure you have your tickets available for entry.
Graduands must sit in the seat allocated to you as it determines the order you will cross the stage during the ceremony.
Guest seats are unallocated.
Graduands, when it is your turn to cross the stage, you will be led by a member of staff and shown where to stand.
Your name will be read out, you will cross the stage and be congratulated by the chancellor.
Once you have left the stage you will return to your seat to watch the rest of the ceremony.
Please note you must remain seated throughout the ceremony.
Length of ceremonies can vary depending on cohort, but they are normally around 90 minutes long.
Graduation is a formal occasion and we recommend that you wear smart, formal dress.
Graduands are very welcome to wear national dress and military attire.
All our ceremonies are live streamed, you will be able to watch them Live on our website or via our YouTube Channel.
They will also be shown on screens across campus.
Graduation is a public celebration, by registering to take part in the graduation ceremony, graduands are confirming that they and their guests have given permission for their image to be recorded.
To celebrate your incredible accomplishments and welcome you to our Alumni community we host a Graduation Festival within Lincoln Castle grounds across the five days of Graduation.
Here you will be able to share a drink with your lecturers and guests as well as buy mementos of the day and take those all important photographs to remember in years to come.
Please read our University of Lincoln Graduation September 2025 Terms and Conditions .
Parking
The University does not provide parking for the graduation ceremonies.
There are pay and display car parks near to the Cathedral and Castle that also have disabled parking bays.
Please allow plenty of time to arrive in Lincoln and find a parking space before the ceremony begins, as these car parks can get busy and local roads may be busier than normal during graduation week.
You can find a map of car parks in Lincoln on the City of Lincoln Council's website (please note that the Castle Hill car park will be closed.
Registration
All students who wish to attend their graduation will be required to complete an online registration form.
By completing the registration form you are consenting that the information collected can be used for graduation purposes and shared with appropriate departments within the University such as the Finance and Alumni teams.
Children are welcome at Graduation Ceremonies, however, the University of Lincoln advises that the Graduation Ceremonies are not wholly suitable for babies or young children as they are long, formal occasions.
Any children in attendance that are under the age of 16 must be accompanied by an adult over the age of 18 at all times.
This means that any accompanying adults will need to have guest tickets.
It is the responsibility of the graduand to ensure any children under the age of 16 are always accompanied by a suitable adult.
Guest tickets will be required for any child aged two and above.
Children aged one or under can attend the ceremony free of charge, providing that they sit on a guest's lap and have an “under one ticket”.
All prams and pushchairs will need to be stored during the ceremony dedicated “buggy” park within the Cathedral.
Behaviour
Graduation is a shared, happy occasion and we expect all students and guests to conduct themselves appropriately.
Abusive, disruptive and threatening behaviour towards graduands, guests, staff from the University, the venue, or our suppliers prior to or on the day of Graduation will not be tolerated.
The University of Lincoln reserve the right to refuse entry to Graduation or to ask anyone to leave Graduation if they act in a manner which we deem to be offensive or disruptive to proceedings or to other attendees.
No guest ticket refunds will be available in such circumstances.
Graduation Ceremonies as a Public Event
The University of Lincoln’s graduation ceremonies are considered to be public events.
This means that the names and award titles, but no classifications, of all graduands (including those graduating in absentia) are published in the official graduation brochure.
In addition, the names of graduands will be provided to our external supplier for use on graduation products such as graduation t-shirts and hoodies.
Photography
The University’s official photographers are Tempest Graduation Photography.
They will be available in the Castle grounds before or after your ceremony.
Visit Tempest Graduation Photography to view packages and prices.
Unfortunately, it is not possible to pre-order a photography package, but these can be ordered during and after your ceremony.
Filming
There will be a professional video recording taken of each graduation ceremony.
This will be streamed on the University of Lincoln’s website.
Graduates and guests seated in the Cathedral should be aware that they may appear on this recording.
I haven’t received my graduation invite email what should I do?
The invitation email will be sent to all eligible individuals to both personal and student email addresses.
Please remember to check your junk or spam folders.
Please note the email address is UL.Learning.Resources.Limited.TA.University.of.Lincoln@r1.dotdigital-email.com
If you believe you should have received the email but haven’t, please contact us at graduation@lincoln.ac.uk .
I can’t attend my graduation ceremony; can I defer to a different ceremony?
Graduands unable to attend the graduation ceremony they have been invited to may defer their attendance to a future ceremony.
Graduands will need to email the Graduation Team graduation@lincoln.ac.uk by Thursday 24 th July.
Graduands who wish to defer their attendance and inform the Graduation Team of their intention to attend a future ceremony, will be added to the invitation list for the following ceremony period.
Am I eligible to graduate?
To be eligible to attend a graduation ceremony graduands must have:
I need a graduation invite letter for visa requirements, how do I get one of these?
To request a Graduation invitation Letter please submit a Student Support Letter Request through the ‘support’ tab of your OneUni account.
These letters are then processed by our team and will be sent to your ‘Preferred’ email address.
Please allow 10 or more working days for a Graduation Invitation letter to be processed and sent to you.
If you no longer have access to your student account you can email letterrequests@lincoln.ac.uk.
Where can I collect my tickets, gown and have professional photo taken?
Our graduation festival takes place in Lincoln Castle, here you can collect your tickets, gown and have professional photos taken.
How do I get official Photography?
The University’s official photographers are Tempest Graduation Photography .
It is not possible to pre-order a photography package, but these can be ordered during and after your ceremony.
What do I do if I am late to my ceremony?
Graduands who arrive late must report immediately to the Registration Marquee in the Lincoln Castle Grounds.
Graduands and guests must be seated 30 minutes before the ceremony starts.
Graduands and Guests who arrive after this time will be not permitted
What should I do if I or one of my guests have access requirements?
If any graduand or guest has a specific health requirement regarding seating arrangements in the Cathedral, please provide details through the William Northam booking system.
The Graduation team will then be in touch should they need to confirm any arrangements
If you have any further questions regarding access requirements, please contact graduation@lincoln.ac.uk .
Can I watch the ceremonies online?
Can I bring Children?
Where can I park?
You can find a map of car parks in Lincoln on the City of Lincoln Council's website (please note that the Castle Hill car park may be closed over the graduation period due to its location next to Lincoln Castle).
Can I leave during the ceremony?
Graduation is a shared, happy occasion and we expect all students and guests to stay for the duration of the ceremony.
How long does the ceremony last?
Length of the ceremonies can vary depending on cohort, but they are normally around 90 minutes long.
Can I bring large items of Luggage into the ceremony?
Large items such as suitcases are not permitted into the ceremonies.
Is Memorabilia available?
There will be a selection of memorabilia available at the Graduation Festival in the Castle grounds.
These include, graduation hoodies, graduation bears and University branded items.
Academic staff members wishing to join the academic platform must register their attendance via William Northam by Thursday 24th July
For any questions about Academic platform, please contact the team at ceremonies@lincoln.ac.uk
graduation@lincoln.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/servicesforbusiness/conferencingandvenuehire:
With impressive conference and meeting venues across our two campuses, Brayford Pool and Riseholme Park , we offer the ultimate flexibility to create the size, type, and style of event your business may need.
We can provide a full conferencing service including everything from support with the planning and management of the event, to supplying catering by our in-house hospitality team, convenient accommodation, and parking spaces.
Our range of facilities have met the needs of leisure groups, varied businesses, educational groups, and conferences.
To begin planning your next event, get in touch with us via the Campus Services website:
Campus Services
Between the woodlands, wildflowers, watercourses, grasslands, and even a working farm, you will find the Old Hall, Lawress Hall, and the Conference Centre, all available to host your next event.
Your attention to us over both days was impeccable and we wanted to thank you so much.
The room and venue as a whole was beautiful and all the delegates said how perfect it was for a sustainability course.
If we ever needed anything, you provided with a smile.
Sustainability Leadership Course, 2024
Below are some examples of the types of rooms we have on offer at the University of Lincoln.
For a comprehensive look at the different spaces available to facilitate your next event, visit the Campus Services website.
Our highest capacity lecture theatre in the Isaac Newton building has 500 seats, comfortably catering for sizeable conferences, workshops, and other large scale events.
We have various purpose-built meeting rooms across both of our campuses with access to facilities including computers, projectors, and screens.
Our atriums offer excellent areas for dining with plenty of seating to facilitate networking opportunities.
They also serve as effective exhibition or breakout spaces.
On our Riseholme Campus you can find spacious conference rooms equipped with technology to facilitate hybrid events, ample parking, and amazing natural views.
Our professional campus services team can facilitate summer schools by providing on-campus accommodation and academic spaces for different group sizes.
Our attractive indoor and outdoor spaces are the perfect setting for a variety of experiences you may want to host at Lincoln.
Our in-house hospitality team pride themselves on working with local, seasonal produce to create menus for all occasions and dietary needs.
From three-course dinners to barbecues and afternoon tea, our team can provide a menu that is right for your event or conference.
Catering
Give your delegates the complete on-campus experience with our modern en-suite bedrooms, all within walking distance of our Brayford facilities.
Our St Marks accommodation can be booked all year round, while Cygnet Wharf is available over summer.
Accommodation
Conferences and Events Team Charlotte Scott Building University of Lincoln Brayford Pool Campus Lincoln LN6 7DH
conferences@lincoln.ac.uk
01522 886 905

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/abouttheuniversity:
We are proud of what we have achieved since we were e stablished in 1996, thanks to the contributions of everyone in our community.
Our journey has seen us flourish into a diverse, internationally recognised university which welcomes thousands of students each year from around the world.
In November 2023 we were awarded the Queen's Anniversary Prize, the UK's highest award for universities, to recognise our work supporting the agri-food sector.
Throughout this exciting period of development, we have been guided by a consistent set of principles which remain at the heart of our approach today: excellence in teaching, learning, and quality of student experience; responsiveness to the needs of communities and organisations; and working in partnership to make great things happen.
To help us continue on this journey, we have developed an ambitious strategic plan , created collaboratively by staff and students across the University, with the aim of establishing ourselves as a UK top 40 institution.
Awarded a five-star score overall in the QS Stars rating system of global universities (2023)
Winner of the prestigious Queen's Anniversary Prize 2023
Discover Study at the University of Lincoln
From our beginnings on a disused industrial site at the edge of Lincoln’s Brayford Pool, to an internationally recognised university with thriving campuses across Lincolnshire and a diverse One Community , our transformation has been meteoric.
The University was established first and foremost to benefit the lives of local people, and the city of Lincoln has grown alongside us.
Lincoln has transformed from a former industrial town into a thriving regional centre with a vibrant cultural economy and active nightlife.
Our first building was opened by Queen Elizabeth II in 1996.
Since then we have invested around £400 million in the campus and its facilities, creating modern learning and research spaces such as the Isaac Newton Building in 2017 and the Ross Lucas Medical Sciences Building in 2021.
We are building a thriving community of thinkers, researchers, and professionals.
As an institution we have grown from around 500 students in 1996, to over 15,000 students today with more than 120,000 graduates across the world.
The University of Lincoln, like universities across the UK, is responding to growing financial pressures facing our higher education sector.
Read more about the source of these pressures and the steps we are taking to continue to thrive now and in the future.
Find out more about how the University is run, the management structures, key people, policies, and procedures.
To create an environment of cross-disciplinary collaboration, our subjects are organised into one of two academic Colleges, the College of Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities and the College of Health and Science .
Our academic teams across these Colleges are involved in research at the leading edge of their disciplines, from developing new antibiotics and more effective cancer treatments, to tackling the digital divide, and preserving historical artefacts.
Working with regional, national, and international partners, our academics are engaged in groundbreaking studies that are challenging the status quo and making a tangible difference to the world around us.
Awards
In November 2023, the University was one of just 22 institutions to be awarded the Queen's Anniversary Prize.
This award recognises the excellent work of the University's Lincoln Institute for Agri-food Technology in supporting the success and sustainability of the UK's food and farming industries.
The institution-wide project of decolonising at Lincoln aims to reimagine our scholarship, interpersonal relations, teaching, learning, and professional practices by actively including previously marginalised knowledge and ways of knowing.
Creating a Sense of Belonging for Our Students
Our Student Futures Manifesto project has created a set of actions and commitments designed to enhance the student experience at the University of Lincoln.
Students consultants were recruited to champion and lead the project, aligning their recommendations to six overarching themes, with the aim of improving the academic, social, and progression opportunities within the University for all students.
Our Student Charter sets out the general principles of a partnership between students, the University of Lincoln, and the Students’ Union.
It is a statement of mutual expectations and aspirations, setting out our respective responsibilities and what we can expect of each other.
At Lincoln, we constantly invest in our buildings and facilities as we strive to provide the best learning environment for our students.
We understand the importance of giving you the strongest possible foundation to help you achieve your aspirations, and whatever your chosen subject, we aim to ensure that you have access to the latest equipment and resources to support your studies.
The University of Lincoln has been ranked as a Gold Tier University in the 2023 Uswitch Green Universities Report .
This annual study assesses which universities are leading the way in green initiatives and renewable energy.
Our accommodation was also voted Winner in the Halls and Student Accommodation category at the WhatUni Student Choice Awards 2024.
Our main Brayford Pool Campus is in the heart of the historic city of Lincoln.
With around £400 million invested into the site since 1996, it has become an inspiring setting for staff and students to learn and conduct exciting research in our industry standard facilities.
Our Holbeach Campus is in the south of the county and is home to the National Centre for Food Manufacturing.
With its specialist facilities, cutting-edge research, and industry informed apprenticeships, it is at the forefront of helping the sector to innovate.
Based on the Riseholme Estate, this campus is just outside the city of Lincoln and is the scenic setting of many of our agriculture related courses, as well as where professional services teams are based.
It is here that advanced farming techniques are explored and developed to create a more sustainable future for farming.
We were among the first UK universities to declare a Climate Emergency as part of our decade long work to recognise and reduce our carbon emissions.
We are working together to create a net-zero university which has sustainability reflected not just in its buildings, but in its culture, with many of our courses embedding sustainability into their modules.
The Press Office is the first point of contact for members of those with editorial enquiries relating to the University of Lincoln.
Alongside our latest press releases, you can find information on getting expert commentary for your stories or how to secure access to our campuses for filming, interviews, or photography.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/strategicplan/seniorleadershipteam:
The University of Lincoln is guided in achieving its strategic goals by its Chancellor, Board of Governors, and Senior Leadership Team.
The Chancellor, as ceremonial figurehead of the University, helps to represent the University’s interests in the public sphere.
The Board of Governors is responsible for defining the institution’s mission, educational character, and future direction.
The Senior Leadership Team drives the University’s strategic growth and is a focal point for the co-ordination of University business.
The Rt.
Hon Professor Lord Ajay Kakkar KG KBE PC, the distinguished surgeon, scientist, and crossbench member of the House of Lords, was installed as Chancellor of the University of Lincoln in September 2023.
Our Senior Leadership Team is made up of the following members:
Professor Neal Juster is Vice Chancellor of the University of Lincoln, UK.
Neal has extensive experience in University management, having been Senior Vice-Principal and Deputy Vice Chancellor at the University of Glasgow.
jfree@lincoln.ac.uk
Executive Assistant
Tracey Watson
amoriarty@lincoln.ac.uk
Ruth Ginn
awoods@lincoln.ac.uk
Rachel Mills
KMiller@lincoln.ac.uk
Lucinda Gazzard
kdayson@lincoln.ac.uk
caconnell@lincoln.ac.uk
Trisha Ramsay
chgreen@lincoln.ac.uk
Rachel Chrispin
dgriffiths@lincoln.ac.uk
Tina Horton
EdHughes@lincoln.ac.uk
The University's Board of Governors is comprised of both staff members of the University and members of the public with with backgrounds in business, the professions, commerce, education, and the public and voluntary sectors.
As the governing body of the University, the Board is accountable for institutional activities, taking all final decisions on matters of fundamental concern within its remit, and the primary responsibilities of the Board can be found in its Statement of Primary Responsibilities .
Governors are appointed on the basis of their understanding of and commitment to the vision and values of the University, enthusiasm about its development, the quality of their contributions to institutional governance, and the independent and constructive advice that they can offer.
Mr John Raine CMG OBE (Chair) Mr Brendan Reilly Sir David Greenaway Ms Eleanor Deeley Ms Becca Gardiner (Student Governor) Ms Helen Groves Dr Iain Thomas Mr Jack Maddock Ms Jacqueline Drury (Staff Governor) Mr Mark Emerton Ms Maria Sigacheva Mr Mark Riley Mr Nasir Ali Professor Neal Juster Mr Russell Schofield Bezer Mr Stephen Pearson
Audit Committee
Apprenticeships and Skills Oversight Group
Finance, Infrastructure and Investment Committee
Honours Committee
Nominations Committee
Remuneration Committee
Primary Element 1: Accountability
The governing body is collectively responsible and accountable for institutional activities, approving all final decisions on matters of fundamental concern within its remit.
The University was fully compliant throughout the accounting period with these provisions of the CUC Code, most of which is evidenced by information provided within the financial statements.
The Board of Governors is kept apprised of compliance with its relevant legal and regulatory duties via cyclical reports on the matters covered within its statement of primary responsibilities.
All members, including the Student Governor and Staff Governor, share the same legal responsibilities and none are routinely excluded from discussions.
Primary Element 2: Sustainability
Working with the Executive, the governing body sets the mission, strategic direction, overall aims and values of the institution.
In ensuring the sustainability of the institution the governing body actively seeks and receives assurance that delivery of the strategic plan is in line with legislative and regulatory requirements, institutional values, policies and procedures, and that there are effective systems of control and risk management in place.
The Board of Governors (which approved the current strategic plan in July 2022) receives regular reports on institutional performance against designated indicators and targets, as well as the unique environment within which universities currently operate.
The High Level Risk Register, following internal development and review, is presented biannually to the Board following review by the Audit Committee.
The revised Code of Practice: Academic Freedom and Freedom of Speech was reviewed and approved at its November 2023 meeting, where the annual reports of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee were also received and (in the latter’s case) approved for publication.
Primary Element 3: Reputation
The governing body safeguards and promotes institutional reputation and autonomy by operating in accordance with the values that underpin this Code, its various elements and the principles of public life.
The University was fully compliant throughout the accounting period with these provisions of the CUC Code.
The conduct expected of governors in office is clearly set out in the governor role descriptor, and a register of interests of all governors and senior officers is maintained.
Governors are not remunerated, with only expenses incurred on approved Board business reimbursed.
The Secretary to the Board acts as its conduit in ensuring the Students’ Union operates in a fair and democratic manner with its financial statements and budget reported annually.
Cyclical reports are made on the University’s various contention processes, including investigation of any disclosures under whistleblowing legislation.
Primary Element 4: Equality, inclusivity and diversity
The governing body promotes a positive culture which supports ethical behaviour, equality, inclusivity and diversity across the institution, including in the governing body’s own operation and composition.
This includes ensuring under-representation and differences in outcomes are challenged and, where practicable, corrective action is taken to ensure fair outcomes for all.
Fundamental to compliance with this primary element continues to be the annual reports made in relation to activity overseen by the Department of People, Performance and Culture, reports in relation to progress against the University’s Access and Participation Plan, and the University’s approach to pay gap reporting.
The Nominations Committee reflects on Board and subcommittee composition as part of the progressive refreshing of membership of the governing body.
Primary Element 5: Effectiveness
The governing body ensures that governance structures and processes are robust, effective and agile by scrutinising and evaluating governance performance against this Code (and other Codes where an institution’s constitutional form requires it), and recognised standards of good practice.
The roles of the Chair, Deputy Chair, Senior Independent Governor are codified, the roles of the Secretary clearly defined, and expectations and requirements of members clear, and supported via induction.
It has an established Board subcommittee structure and will next undertake a triennial full and robust review of its governance effectiveness within the 2024/25 academic year.
Primary Element 6: Engagement
Governing bodies understand the various stakeholders of the institution (globally, nationally and locally) and are assured that appropriate and meaningful engagement takes place to allow stakeholder views to be considered and reflected in relevant decision-making processes.
There is both a Student and Staff Governor on the Board, ensuring these perspectives can be a part of decision-making and there are a wider range of mechanisms which ensure due independence and engagement of stakeholders in decision-making.
Statement approved by the Board of Governors on 24 July 2024
The University maintains a register of Board of Governors members' and SLT members’ interests.
These members are required to complete a declaration of interests form on an annual basis.
Members are requested to provide an update if their interests change during the course of the year.
Register of Interests (PDF)
Whilst we regularly undertake targeted recruitment activity in order to fill specific vacancies on our Board of Governors, we are always keen to hear from exceptional individuals interested in joining the Board who believe they have something to offer the University.
If you are interested in becoming a member of the Board, please send a brief covering letter explaining your interest and a copy of your CV to Aaron Smith, Head of Legal and Compliance & Secretary: aarsmith@lincoln.ac.uk
Governance@lincoln.ac.uk
+44 (0)1522 886184

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/strategicplan:
The University of Lincoln is a university of and for the 21st Century.
Dynamic, enterprising, and globally connected.
We nurture talent and ideas, contribute globally by creating and sharing knowledge, and demonstrably help to transform lives and communities for the better.
We were established in 1996, in one building on a brownfield site.
Charged with enriching the city’s economic, social, and cultural life, we were named the University of Lincoln in 2001.
Since then, we have grown into a flourishing anchor institution that contributes over £400m to the local economy.
Throughout this exciting period of development, we have been guided by a consistent set of principles: excellence in teaching, learning, and quality of student experience; responsiveness to the needs of communities and organisations; and working in partnership to make great things happen.
This strategic plan, covering the period to 2027, marks a major point in our history as we focus on realising our long-term ambition of being seen as a university that contributes significantly to the nation’s success through regional regeneration and international connectivity.
Because we were created on an empty site, we have been able to build facilities, degree programmes, and teaching and learning environments that prime students for success in a challenging world both now and in the future.
Because we care about the needs of communities, we conduct regionally relevant and globally impactful research: driving productivity and reducing carbon impact in food and farming industries; ensuring that people in rural and coastal communities can live long and healthy lives; and conserving, curating, and sharing our cultural heritage.
Achieving this vision will require us to look outwards, attracting talent and ideas from around the world, to improve communities beyond, as well as within, our city and region.
We must deliver the most appropriate educational courses, provide the best student experience, and conduct the most relevant research.
Our academic structures, support services, physical and digital infrastructure, and processes must be fit for purpose.
By 2027, we expect to have a larger and more international student body with a higher proportion of postgraduate taught students; a greater diversity of programme types and delivery mechanisms; a larger research order book with more staff conducting internationally recognised research; more and stronger partnerships with external organisations; greater income from consultancy and licensing; and a higher proportion of international staff.
At the same time, we must maintain our reputation for civic engagement, and for a committed staff community that delivers a supportive and stimulating student experience.
This will be no easy task.
The external environment is uncertain and change is incessant.
We must be agile and sharply focused, innovative and responsive, bold and ambitious.
Displaying entrepreneurial flair, a collaborative spirit, and a fearless attitude, we must build on and transcend our historical achievements, to create a thriving future for Lincoln, Greater Lincolnshire, and beyond.
Created by the people of Lincolnshire, we are as much the University for Lincoln, as the University of Lincoln.
Our purpose is to transform lives and communities, attracting talent from around the globe to create, for Lincolnshire and communities across the world, a virtuous circle of opportunity, prosperity, and economic growth.
Our vision is to be a transformative university enabling a prosperous region in an inter-connected world.
Our long-term ambition is to achieve a global reputation and be recognised as among the top 15 UK universities by 2050.
We will work towards the key milestone of a top 40 position in the UK, and a top 500 position globally, by 2027.
Our values reflect who we are and what we stand for.
At the University of Lincoln, we are focused and ambitious, always evolving and looking for the next challenge.
We have a sense of passion and pride in everything we do and are confident in our ability to make a positive difference to the world.
We will strive for excellence recognising and working on our areas for improvement whilst celebrating individual success and achievement.
Our inspirational teaching staff, gifted researchers, expert professional service staff, and engaged student body have a distinctive way of working together, which we refer to as One Community.
This is a collective mindset, through which we promote equality, listen to each other, understand different points of view, are kind to each other, and accept each other for who we are.
Alongside this, we have a set of guiding principles that outline how we can best operate to improve the lives of students, staff, and the communities and region we serve.
Striving for Excellence: We strive for excellence in everything we do, holding high expectations of performance.
Embracing Difference: Prioritising inclusive practices in all our activities, we embrace difference through a global mindset.
Accepting Personal Responsibility: We accept personal responsibility for the wellbeing of people, our community, and the environment.
Working Collaboratively: Working collaboratively, creatively, and innovatively with our staff, students, and partners.
Challenging Each Other: We have the courage to challenge each other respectfully.
Our strategic ambition is articulated around three core themes: We Collaborate , We Challenge , and We Transform .
By building a collaborative community that challenges itself and the outside world, we will bring about changes that positively transform people and communities and help to solve some of the world’s current and future grand challenges.
Transforming lives and communities starts with working in partnership.
Having the confidence to challenge each other, and work together differently, results in better educational and research outcomes.
Our purpose is to transform lives.
If our purpose is to transform lives, then we must start by transforming ourselves.
We must have clarity of purpose in everything we do, from how we deliver our teaching and learning, to the focus and conduct of our research, and the nature of our university structures.
This must be done with quality, efficiently delivered, and focused on delivering our vision and ambition.
We enter into this next stage of our development during a period of considerable uncertainty for both the sector and the wider world.
We will rise to the challenges this poses.
By 2027, we expect to have increased and diversified our student numbers within a wider range of flexible delivery mechanisms.
We will have a greater focus on research, with more staff conducting internationally recognised research, and we will have increased and diversified our income from sources such as research, consultancy, and licensing.
At the same time, we will have maintained our reputation for teaching excellence and delivering a supportive and stimulating student experience.
We will have developed people, processes, and structures so that they perform at the highest possible levels, ensuring efficiency and effectiveness in everything we do.
We will measure our progress towards the achievement of our 2027 ambition through clearly identified key performance indicators that ably measure the step change we wish to achieve through the next five years of this plan and beyond.
Our refreshed strategy sets out a vision and plan for realising a bright future for the University and the students and communities we serve, amid a rapidly changing landscape for higher education in the UK.
In this video, our Senior Leadership Team describe key priorities and initiatives behind the strategy.
You can download a PDF version of our Strategic Plan 2022–2027, 'Transforming Lives and Communities'.
Strategic Plan 2022–2027
We have also produced a two-page summary of our Strategic Plan 2022–2027, which you can download here.
Strategic Plan 2022-27 Summary

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/abouttheuniversity/sustainability:
The University of Lincoln recognises that we have a responsibility to reduce our environmental impact and to provide a sustainable future for generations to come.
With the world facing an unprecedented rise in global temperatures, we have been developing a range of approaches to environmental sustainability that aim to reduce any negative effect that our operations may have, and to offer solutions to these challenges through our teaching and research.
We have committed to achieving net zero emissions by 2040, with a 60 per cent reduction in carbon emissions by 2030, and are dedicated to contributing towards all 17 of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals.
We aim to be recognised for our local and global impact in the transition to net zero, and are proud to be ranked as a Gold Tier University in the 2023 Uswitch Green Universities Report – an annual study that assesses which universities are leading the way in green initiatives and renewable energy.
Committed to achieving net-zero emissions by 2040, with a 60 per cent reduction in carbon emissions by 2030
Contributing towards all 17 of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals
Ranked as a Gold Tier University in the 2023 Uswitch Green Universities Report
Founding member of the Nature Positive Universities Alliance
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
The UN Sustainable Development Goals are an urgent call for action to tackle some of the world's most pressing problems.
As a University created by its community for its community to reduce inequalities, we understand the role we can play in ensuring that in our rapidly-changing world, no one is left behind.
Our institution is forward-thinking and committed to tackling the global challenge of climate change by pursuing a net-zero agenda.
We recognise our responsibility to make meaningful contributions towards reducing carbon emissions, preserving the environment, and creating a sustainable future for generations to come.
We are proud to integrate the net-zero agenda into every aspect of our operations, including teaching and learning, impactful research, industry partnerships, and our day-to-day estates operations .
We believe that our students, staff, and wider community have a crucial role to play in promoting a sustainable way of life, with our commitment to net zero underpinning all of our actions and decisions.
The University of Lincoln is proud to be one of the founding universities of the Nature Positive Universities alliance and has committed to the maintenance and development of its natural spaces, including looking after biodiversity.
The Nature Positive Universities Alliance is a global network of universities that have made the pledge to work towards a nature-positive goal to halt, prevent, and reverse nature loss.
The climate crisis can't be tackled just by talking about it, and we believe in action.
That's why we host our annual Climate Action Festival, a week dedicated to showing people they can take action in their communities and beyond.
With events including wildlife surveying lessons, workshops on creating nature-friendly art, and tree walks, this is a week dedicated to taking the necessary steps to safeguard our planet for future generations.
Take a look at our video below for this year's Climate Action Festival highlights.
Our research is firmly focused on the net zero agenda, and we strive for impactful insight that informs policy, shapes industry practice, and helps to accelerate the transition to a low-carbon future.
To fulfil the ambitions of our Strategic Plan 2022-27 , we need to continue on this positive trajectory, establishing greater scale and quality and ensuring that our research continues to address local and global priorities, focusing on our key strengths and framing our research and collaborations in a way that helps to support the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals .
The University has been awarded the prestigious Queen’s Anniversary Prize in recognition of its work supporting the success and sustainability of the UK’s food and farming industries through innovations in research, education, and technology.
Sustainability is embedded in our teaching and learning at Lincoln.
Many of our programmes now include modules focusing on sustainability issues, giving students the knowledge to become innovative problem-solvers capable of designing sustainable solutions for real-world challenges.
The University of Lincoln is also proud to take part in SDG Teach In , an annual campaign to put the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and sustainability, at the heart of all stages of education, and across all disciplines.
This annual campaign calls upon universities to include the SDGs within their teaching, learning, and assessment during the campaign.
Outside of their studies, our students can engage in a variety of volunteering projects through the Sustainability Team, Students’ Union, and local environment groups.
There’s also the opportunity to participate in sustainability-themed events, such as our Climate Action Festival, which was a winner in the Creating Impact category at the 2024 Green Gown Awards.
The Students’ Union’s Environment, Conservation and Opportunities (E.C.O) Society aims to make constructive changes to the campus and local environment by creating green spaces, improving habitats, and raising the profile of environmental issues.
In addition to making a positive environmental impact, the society offers a great chance to meet like-minded students with a passion for environmental issues.
Visit our sustainability website to find out more about what University of Lincoln is doing to become a more sustainable organisation, from recycling and waste management, to environmental initiatives and sustainable transport plans.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/abouttheuniversity/onecommunity:
The University of Lincoln is a vibrant community of scholars.
Each of us bringing new knowledge, skills, and approaches to our university life.
We welcome thousands of new members to our community each year and we benefit from sharing views and ideas from all around the globe.
We actively seek to create One Community where, whoever you are, wherever you come from, you are part of our University and you can be safe enough to be challenged and supported to grow and develop.
Wherever you are from, Lincoln is your home – a base for discovery, learning, and exploring your world and your future.
We create opportunities for all members of our community to get involved and contribute to their university.
We value new ideas and we adapt and develop as the community grows and changes.
As One Community, we are comprised of individuals with a range of different experiences, identities, and cultures.
We thrive as a community because of our diversity and it is through exploring novel and different ideas together that we can understand our world better.
At Lincoln we celebrate the diversity of all our staff and our students; and together we are stronger.
At the University of Lincoln we are One Community and strive to be kind, patient, and supportive of each other.
Our One Community Values define our One Community ethos and are a framework to ensure that respectful and inclusive behaviours should be at the heart of all we do – for each other, our partners, and our customers (internally and externally) both in our thoughts and our actions.
We are all individuals, together as one community.
As part of this, we recognise we have different opinions, outlooks, and philosophies.
We try to understand other points of view, even if we disagree with them.
We give others our attention and respect and allow people the space to contribute to conversations.
We listen to the quiet voices as well as the loud ones and speak up with them when we need to.
We are kind to other people in the words we choose and the actions we take, especially when nobody else is looking or we will not benefit personally.
We accept people for who they are, and respect each person’s background, identity, beliefs, and differences.
We appreciate the diverse range of experiences and perspectives in our community which strengthens it.
Each year, the University of Lincoln is delighted to welcome international students from all over the world.
With staff and students from more than 100 countries, we represent a diverse and inclusive academic community.
The University of Lincoln offers a range of opportunities for prospective students to visit us throughout the year, enabling applicants to find out more about us, the courses we offer, and the wider city.
With more than 1,800 employees in a range of academic and professional roles, the University is one of the largest employers in our historic and welcoming city.
We offer exciting career opportunities, with the chance to grow and develop.
Lincoln is one of the world’s great historic cities.
The winning combination of a vibrant city centre and a historic Cathedral Quarter, both offering a rich variety of attractions, activities, and amenities, makes it a fantastic place in which to live and study.
At Lincoln, the success and wellbeing of our students is at the forefront of everything we do.
Our students join a close-knit community founded on mutual respect, and we work with them to provide a stimulating and supportive environment that encourages them to grow and gain confidence.
With the world facing a rise in global temperatures, the University of Lincoln has been developing a range of approaches to environmental sustainability that aim to reduce any negative effect that our operations may have, and to offer solutions to these challenges through our teaching and research.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/jobopportunities:
Here at the University of Lincoln, we aim to provide a vibrant community of staff and students, where all of us can share new knowledge, skills, ideas, and approaches.
We offer a range of exciting career opportunities, with competitive salaries, generous benefits packages, training and development programmes, and health and wellbeing support, giving you the chance to reach your full potential.
If you can't find a suitable position after viewing our current opportunities, then don't worry.
You can sign up to our free Jobs by Email service, which will alert you to any vacancies in the future.
Browse our range of current job vacancies for academic, research, administrative, and professional services staff, along with graduate opportunities.
Explore Our Vacancies
We see our colleagues as individuals and we offer a range of benefits, such as a general annual leave allowance, to help enrich your life and support your specific needs during your time with us.
Learn About Benefits
We believe that all staff should be supported to reach their full potential.
Whether you are joining a professional services department, or working as an academic or researcher, there are a wide range of career development opportunities at Lincoln.
Development at Lincoln

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/abouttheuniversity/pressandmedia:
The Press Office is the first point of contact for members of the press and media with editorial enquiries relating to the University of Lincoln.
We are proud of our University community, and work with local, national, and international media to showcase the exciting research, developments, and achievements of our staff and students.
If you are a media organisation wishing to conduct interviews, photography, or filming on one of our three inspiring campuses, please contact the Press Office in the first instance.
We have a wealth of academic expertise across the University ready to provide media comment and analysis across an extensive array of subject areas, from animal behaviour to mental health.
You can explore our research strengths, institutes, and centres through our Research webpage .
To find an expert please contact our Press Office.
Find an Expert
To request use of the University's corporate logo or to request a copy of our brand guidelines, please email brand@lincoln.ac.uk .
If you are a staff member, you can access our brand guidelines as well as range of helpful resources through the University's portal .
pressoffice@lincoln.ac.uk
+44(0)1522 886244

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/alumnicommunity:
When you graduate from the University of Lincoln you become part of our global alumni community.
We have a dedicated Alumni Team to help you stay in touch with the University and make the most of everything on offer.
This includes careers and employability and business incubation support for newer graduates, as well as discounted membership of the University Sports Centre and associate membership of the University Library.
We love to learn more about our alumni community, hear how our alumni are doing, where they are, and what they are doing now, so please stay in touch and share your achievements.
The Alumni Community is made up of over 130,000 graduates who are working in diverse careers and industries.
Our alumni span the globe and live across 150 countries, meaning you are never far from fellow graduates, no matter where you are in the world.
Our alumni are our greatest advocates and sharing your insights help us inspire the next generation of University of Lincoln students.
Being part of the Alumni Community allows you to connect with fellow graduates and create professional networks.
To keep you up to date with all the benefits and services on offer to you, as well as news and updates from the University, ensure you regularly update your details.
Update Your Details
We are here to support you by providing bespoke careers and employability support to new graduates and information relating to any current vacancies or opportunities with local or national employers for alumni who are further into their careers.
Learn About Support
The Student Enterprise Team offer a wide range of support to graduates, including workshops, mentoring, and funding for those thinking of starting their own business or becoming a freelancer.
Find out More
Take a look at upcoming events exclusively for alumni, as well as other university events taking place across the institution such as part of the Lincoln Arts Centre.
Go to Events
The University of Lincoln is proud to offer our alumni community a number of benefits and services.
To ensure you hear about all the benefits and services on offer, make sure to regularly update your details so that we can keep in touch.
Alumni wishing to take that next step at work, enhance their salary, change their career, or simply do something they're passionate about may be eligible for scholarships on postgraduate study.
Go to Postgraduate Study
As alumni, you can become an associate reader at the University Library with no charge.
This gives you physical access to the library and the ability to loan up to six books at a time.
Join the Library
Alumni can access discounted membership to the University Sports Centre which enables you to use the gym, attend classes and use other Fitness Centre facilities.
Join the Sports Centre
Alumni under the age of 30 can apply for the free Live Pass membership to the Lincoln Arts Centre which gives you access to reduced tickets costs for selected events, exclusive newsletters, and more.
Explore Live Pass
Alumni can register for an associate membership of the Students' Union which gives access to SU facilities, as well as the ability to join sports and societies.
Explore Memberships
Didn't receive your alumni pin badge at Graduation?
Email us at alumni@lincoln.ac.uk to receive your free alumni pin badge in the post.
An honorary degree is the highest honour that the University of Lincoln bestows.
Take a look at our honorary graduates and how they have served their chosen field, industry, or 
community.
Find out how you can support the University of Lincoln by getting involved and giving your time.
You can help us support our current and prospective students, as well as our wider community through a range of activities and opportunities.
Get Involved
Another way you can support the university is by donating towards or sharing our current campaigns with your networks.
A gift, no matter how small, can help support our students, our research, and our community.
Support Us
Whether you're looking to retrain, enhance your existing skills and employability, change direction, or just looking to do something you love, the University of Lincoln has a wide range of Master's programmes spanning the arts, science, business, and social science.
UK Alumni who hold a University of Lincoln undergraduate degree or higher qualification may be eligible for our Alumni Scholarship for postgraduate study.
Please see our Scholarships and Bursaries page for more information and the terms and conditions.*
*Further information regarding this scholarship can be found within the Terms and Conditions for the University's Bursaries and Scholarships (PDF) .
Please note personal data is processed in accordance with the University's Alumni, Donors and Supporters Privacy Notice .
alumni@lincoln.ac.uk
01522 835858

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/alumnicommunity/supporttheuniversity:
The University of Lincoln has established an international reputation for the quality of its teaching and research.
Our academic teams are involved in research at the leading edge of their disciplines, from developing new antibiotics and more effective cancer treatments, to tackling the digital divide and preserving historical artefacts.
This research is changing the world and its quality and relevance is recognised nationally and internationally.
More than three quarters of Lincoln’s research was judged to be internationally excellent or world-leading in the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021 - the most recent major assessment of research standards across UK universities.
We are extremely grateful for the support and contributions we have already received that have helped to make the University of Lincoln what it is today, but to continue this journey we need your support.
Through a generous gift you can help support the next generation of students and researchers.
Transforming Lives
The cost-of-living crisis is affecting people across the UK and university students and their families are feeling these same financial pressures.
From travel bursaries to emergency hardship funds, a donation can make a real difference to real people aspiring to improve their life chances through higher education.
In Memory of John Kelly
It is with great sadness that we announce that John Kelly passed away on Thursday 7th November 2024 after a short illness.
This news comes as a terrible shock to the Law School community, and we keep John’s family and friends in our thoughts at this difficult time.
We are creating a prize in memory of John which will support Lincoln Law School students.
Support Our Research
The Lincoln Swan Project is a collaboration between Keele University and the University of Lincoln.
The project aims to understand the ecology, behaviour, health and welfare of Mute Swans.
In 2017 the project started a programme of colour ringing swans on the waterways in and around Lincoln, which enables our researchers to monitor their health.
The project has now ringed over 300 swans, however, gifts to support our research into these symbols of our city are still needed.
Funding scholarships, bursaries, and prizes help attract and retain students who may otherwise struggle financially to complete their degrees.
Supporting our widening participation agenda allows students from underrepresented groups equal access to a university education.
Funding research allows us to learn more about the world around us and helps the university contribute to global research.
Donations towards buildings, facilities, and maintenance help ensure our campus and learning environments are the best we can provide for current and future students.
The Andrew Stevenson Award was created by Andrew Stevenson's parents and family in his memory to recognise an exceptional student each year that has shown the spirit of Enterprise and Entrepreneurship within their business/idea.
Gifts to support our students allow us to continue to deliver high-quality education and opportunities for students of all ages and backgrounds.
Your donation could help us to create and maintain specialist facilities, or even offer named scholarships, prizes, and bursaries to ensure that financial hardship need not deter talented students.
Our academic teams are involved in research at the leading edge of their disciplines.
It is vital that we support those who are learning, teaching, and researching by ensuring they have the opportunities, facilities, and resources to reach their full potential.
Your gift today could mean a world-changing discovery tomorrow.
Over the past two decades, the University has invested around £400 million in its Brayford Pool Campus, with further plans to invest in additional facilities and refurbishments of existing buildings.
Much of this has only been made possible by donors who were determined to ensure that we can provide the best learning environment for our students.
Make a Difference Where it Matters Most
By donating to Greatest Need, you help us to support urgent priorities and provide funds when and where they are needed the most.
Unrestricted gifts to the area of greatest need provide the University with the flexibility to respond and direct your donation to where it will have the most impact.
A one off donation can go a long way to supporting one of our priority areas.
Give a Single Gift
Regular donations made at monthly or annual intervals ensure we can continue to support the causes that matter most to you.
Give a Recurring Gift
We can also accept gifts via cheque, bank transfer, invoice, and payroll giving.
Please get in touch with the team at development@lincoln.ac.uk where we can discuss your gift and advise on how to donate by one of these methods.
Make a Corporate Gift
Leaving a legacy is often the most significant gift someone can make and is an important way of supporting the University and future generations of students and researchers.
These gifts enable the University to build on its strengths and maintain excellent teaching and research.
Discuss Legacy Giving
Providing us with a valid Gift Aid Declaration allows us to maximise the impact of your donation by claiming an additional 25 per cent from HMRC.
Contact the team to request a gift aid declaration form for you to complete.
Make a Declaration
We are registered with the Fundraising Regulator
The University of Lincoln is an exempt charity, and our charity number is XR0664.
We are committed to the Fundraising Regulator Code of Practice meaning that our fundraising activity will be legal, open, honest, and respectful.
The University upholds the standards set out in the Fundraising Regulator’s Fundraising Promise.
development@lincoln.ac.uk
01522 835835

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/clearing:
Clearing for September 2025 offers another opportunity for you to secure a place at university.
The process is aimed at students who are not holding any offers, have missed the entry requirements for their firm and insurance choices, or are considering university for the first time and are yet to apply.
We still have places available on many of our courses.
Just give our friendly advisors a call and they will talk you through the process.
You'll just need to have your UCAS account, Clearing number, Personal ID, chosen course name, and grades to hand.
Main hotline: 0808 164 4444
Courses returned below: 0 of 131
There are no courses that match your filter search.
Open for Clearing
Clearing offers from 56 UCAS Tariff Points
Clearing offers from 48 UCAS Tariff Points
Clearing offers from 64 UCAS Tariff Points
Closed for Clearing
Clearing offers from 48-80 UCAS Tariff Points
Clearing offers from 32 UCAS Tariff Points
Clearing offers from 72 UCAS Tariff Points
Top 20 in the University of the Year category at the Whatuni Student Choice Awards 2025
Search our available courses
Call us to get a quick Clearing offer
Add us as your choice on UCAS
Apply for student finance and accommodation
Visit our Open Campus
No regrets
Jack joined us through Clearing after deciding in August that he would like to start university that September.
I rang the Clearing number and spoke to a really friendly advisor who, within ten minutes, managed to get me a place on the course I wanted.
I was shocked at how quick and easy the process was, allowing me to feel excitement rather than stress!
If you’ve accepted a firm choice university already via UCAS you can “self release” into Clearing after you’ve got your results and your firm choice confirms your place.
You’ll need to talk to the university where you’ve accepted an offer to ask them to “release” you.
Yes, you can apply to us in Clearing even if you didn’t apply to universities during the main UCAS cycle.
If you’ve got your qualifications already, we can help you complete the application now.
If you’re waiting for exam results, we can make provisional offers based on predicted grades.
Not at all.
Our Unibuddy community is a great way to make friends before you arrive at university.
You can join communities based on your chosen course, accommodation, or interests like sports, music, or hobbies.
Absolutely!
We’re very proud of our award-winning student accommodation at the University of Lincoln.
Our Accommodation Guarantee means that applicants who apply for accommodation with us by 31 August 2025 are guaranteed a room in a University-managed student residence.
Explore Accommodation
No.
About one in seven students enrol through clearing and it has no bearing on your experience as a student.
It’s simply another admissions route beyond the “main cycle” UCAS process.
Yes, we can be more flexible on entry requirements during Clearing so it’s well worth calling our Clearing Hotline to see if we can make you an offer.
It’s a good idea to act quickly since course vacancies can fill up fast.
Our advisors can also discuss alternative entry routes available, such as our foundation year programmes, which provide more opportunities for students who might not otherwise meet standard entry requirements.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/prospectus:
Find out more about the University of Lincoln and the courses we offer in our prospectus.
Choose the right prospectus for you by selecting your intended level of study and the academic year in which you wish to begin your studies.
Download a digital copy of our Undergraduate Prospectus or order a free physical copy direct to your door.
Our prospectus is filled with useful information about studying at Lincoln, student life, and the great courses we have on offer.
Download a digital copy of our Postgraduate Prospectus or order a free physical copy direct to your door.
Our prospectus is filled with information about studying at Lincoln, the exciting research taking place, and the taught and research programmes on offer.
Download a digital copy of our International Prospectus where you can read about Lincoln and the exciting opportunities available when you study at the University of Lincoln.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/getreadyforlincoln:
Welcome
We can’t wait to welcome our new students to Lincoln.
Welcome activities are scheduled to start on Monday 22 September 2025.
As we get closer to the start of term, you'll be able to find out more about the enrolment process and access Welcome Week timetables below.
If you have any queries, please contact a member of the Admissions Team by emailing admissions@lincoln.ac.uk.
Our Student Support Centre is also available to assist you with any questions you may have relating to student finance, accommodation, as well as providing general advice and support.
Please call 01522 837080 to speak to a member of the team, or email studentsupport@lincoln.ac.uk .
As we get closer to the start of term, we want to make sure that you have all the important information you need.
This includes the essential and recommended tasks to complete before you arrive, as well as enrolment and accessing your Welcome Week timetable.
Once you arrive in Lincoln for your first week, there will be a few important tasks for you to complete.
Find out more about your next steps with our post-arrival guide.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/eventsandconferences/upcomingevents/psych,conference,16th,sept,2025.html:
10.00am
Isaac Newton Building
University of Lincoln
Brayford Pool
Lincoln
LN6 7TS
Join us at the University of Lincoln for an interactive day on campus showing you what it’s like to study psychology at Lincoln.
During the day you will hear about some of the diverse topics that come under the heading of ‘psychology’ from some of our own academics.
You will tour our city centre campus, meet some of our current students and have plenty time to ask your questions - whether that’s about what our courses look like, or what it’s like to study in Lincoln from a student’s perspective.
By the end of the day, you will have learned some new things about psychology, and found out why Lincoln is such a great place to study.
Day Plan:
Intro talk
10.00-10.20
Interactive mini lecture 1
10.30-11.00
INB
Interactive mini lecture 2
11.10-11.40
Lunch
11.50-12.30
With demos from student ambassadors
Campus tour
12.40-1.30
Interactive mini lecture 3
1.40-2.10
Student panel
2.10-2.30
Book Your Place
The University of Lincoln makes every possible effort to ensure that the information published on its website is accurate and up to date, but reserves the right to make amendments at any time and without prior notice.
On occasion, there may be a photographer or videographer in attendance at events, taking pictures for use within University of Lincoln marketing materials, including this website.
Please make the photographer aware if you would not like your image to be used.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/opendaysandvisits/undergraduateopendays:
Our Undergraduate Open Days are the best way to get a sense of what it’s like to be a student at the University and discover why thousands of students fall in love with Lincoln each year.
You can now book your place at our Autumn Open Days and get ready to experience Lincoln for yourself.
During an Open Day, you can attend subject talks for the courses you are interested in, tour our accommodation and facilities, meet face-to-face with academic tutors, and speak to our staff about the things that matter to you.
Our Student Ambassadors are also on hand to share their experiences, from doing their coursework and exams, to going out in the city.
Speaking of the city, why not explore Lincoln and get a feel for what it is like to live here.
Visit the bustling high street and side streets, stop for lunch in the exciting Cornhill Quarter, or take a stroll up Lincoln’s famous Steep Hill to the magnificent Lincoln Cathedral, where we hold our wonderful graduation ceremonies.
Explore our Brayford Pool Campus
View our accommodation options
Attend a Welcome Talk
Attend a subject talk and speak to academic staff
Visit the Information Zone
Explore the city
The University of Lincoln is working with local and national organisations to provide a range of discounts and offers for our guests and their families that can be used during the Open Day.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/eventsandconferences/upcomingevents/pg-od-1-oct.html:
4.00pm
Isaac Newton Building, Brayford Pool Campus
To get a real feel for what it is like to study at the University of Lincoln, we hold a number of dedicated postgraduate events and activities throughout the year for you to take part in.
The event runs from 4pm to 6pm.
On arrival, our friendly Postgraduate Team will be on hand to welcome you and help you check-in.
All information stands will be available during the event, and there is also a series of optional talks, so you can attend at a time to suit you and plan the day around your own schedule.
One of the most important things you’ll want to do on the day is find out more about the programme or programmes you are interested in.
Our knowledgeable academics will be available throughout the event, giving you the opportunity to speak to them one-to-one to really get an understanding of what’s involved and ask any questions you may have about studying at Lincoln.
If you have any questions about this event, please contact pgenquiries@lincoln.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/contactus:
For general enquiries, our main switchboard number is +44 (0)1522 882000 .
Our phone line is open Monday – Thursday 8:30 am – 5 pm, and Friday 8.30 am – 4:30 pm.
Thinking of studying at the University of Lincoln?
If you have a question about applying for one of our courses, please contact us:
Please note our enquiries phone line is open between 10am and 3pm.
If you are an international student please contact:
Email: internationalenquiries@lincoln.ac.uk
Speak to Our Students If you want to know what it's really like to study at Lincoln, register with our Unibuddy platform and send a message to a current Lincoln students.
It's quick and easy to create an account and get chatting !
If you have a question about your application or specific qualifications, the best thing to do is contact the relevant admissions team.
UK Admissions Enquiries Please call us on +44 (0) 1522 886097 or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk .
International Admissions Enquiries Please call us on +44 (0) 1522 886677 or email intadmissions@lincoln.ac.uk .
Our Accomodation Team is available Monday to Friday 08:30 - 5pm, and Friday 8.30 am – 4:30 pm on +44 (0) 1522 886300 .
Alternatively please email accommodation@lincoln.ac.uk .
For more information please visit our Accommodation pages .
Residence Life Team To ease your transition to University and help you settle into your new home, our friendly Residence Life Team are here to offer you help when it is needed.
You can email them at reslife@lincoln.ac.uk or call +44 (0) 1522 835550 .
If you are a current student in need of support and guidance, please contact the Student Support Centre.
If you are a student seeking mental health support, you can find many helpful resources and self-help guides on the Student Services website .
You can also email the Student Wellbeing Centre via studentwellbeing@lincoln.ac.uk or complete their contact  form.
For general enquiries please use our International Enquiries Form .
Alternatively, visit the International Students pages to discover the support available to our International Students.
International Admissions Enquiries For International Admission related enquiries call us on +44 01522 308108 .
Speak to Our Students If you want to know what it's really like to study at Lincoln, register with our Unibuddy platform and send a message to current Lincoln students.
It's quick and easy to create an account and get chatting!
At the University we have a dedicated, award-winning Careers team to support you throughout your time at Lincoln and beyond.
Prospective employers should email employers@lcinoln.ac.uk to contact the Careers team.
If you have a question about your upcoming graduation ceremony, or graduation certificates, you can get in touch with the Graduation team by email graduation@lincoln.ac.uk .
For more information please visit our Graduation page .
If you are a former student and want to find out about alumni events , volunteering, or donating to the University of Lincoln please visit our Alumni Community pages.
Duplicate Degree Certificates If you need to request a duplicate degree certificate or transcript please see the order a certificate page .
Research and Enterprise You can talk to us about research support , services for businesses , and networking opportunities .
Alternatively, you can talk to us on 0800 915 5278 or email research@lincoln.ac.uk.
Business Services Contact us about our business services by calling us on 0800 915 5278 or emailing enterprise@lincoln.ac.uk.
Businesses interested in recruiting students and graduates for work and placements should contact our Careers Service .
Upcoming Events At Lincoln, we have a busy calendar of events across the year.
From Open Days and visits to public lectures and events across the city, find out what we've got coming up .
Conference Enquiries Get in touch with our events team by phone or email:
For expert comments on breaking news stories, or to arrange interviews, filming and photography, please contact our Press Office .
Find contact details for our academic staff across a range of subjects and disciplines.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studentlife/termdates:
Each course is different - some will have placements, coursework, assessments, dissertations or projects instead of examinations.
These are the key dates for your diary throughout the academic year.
Students' individual timetables are available on the University of Lincoln’s virtual learning environment Blackboard .
Which courses will be starting teaching earlier?
Some of our programmes may start sooner than September due to professional requirements and practical placements.
Applicants and continuing students on these programmes will be made aware if this is the case.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/abouttheuniversity/governance/universitypolicies:
The University of Lincoln operates within a framework of regulations, policies, and procedures to ensure it meets the statutory requirements for UK universities.
Other documents also form important elements of our Governance regime and relate to many and varied aspects of University business, including teaching and learning, employment, finance, and student services.
An A-Z list of our policies can also be accessed in the University Policies A-Z page .
You will notice that next to each policy is a link shortener.
We encourage you to use the link shortener so that you are always using the most up to date version of the policy.
Got a question about a policy or can't find the policy you're looking for?
Try asking our AI bot Newton: https://lncn.ac/newton
Newton is currently only available to staff but will be rolled out to students soon.
Some documents may not be suitable for users of assistive technology.
If you need a version of a document in a more accessible format, please email policies@lincoln.ac.uk
Access and Participation Plan
Access and Participation Plan 2025/26 - 2028/29
Access and Participation Plan Summary 2025/26 - 2028/29
Access and Participation Plan 2020/2021 - 2024/25
Access and Participation Plan Summary 2020/2021 - 2024/25
Previous plans and reports
https://lncn.ac/apppol
https://lncn.ac/appsumpol
https://lncn.ac/appv1pol
https://lncn.ac/appsumv1pol
Accreditation of Prior Learning Policy
https://lncn.ac/accprlepol
Admissions Policy – Postgraduate
https://lncn.ac/adpospol
Admissions Policy – Undergraduate
https://lncn.ac/adunpol
Admissions T&Cs
https://lncn.ac/admtandc
Annual Fee Information
2021-22
2022-23
2023-24
2024-25
2025-26
https://lncn.ac/af2122
https://lncn.ac/af2223
https://lncn.ac/af2324
https://lncn.ac/af2425
https://lncn.ac/af2526
CAS Issuance Policy
https://lncn.ac/casispol
Fitness to proceed process for H&SC (included as part of the School of Health and Care Sciences Programme Admissions Guidance)
https://lncn.ac/SHSCadmi
To access the University Regulations page please visit the University Regulations and Schedule of Awards page.
Academic Partnerships – OfS Registration Status Policy
https://lncn.ac/acparofspol
Academic Partnerships Policy
https://lncn.ac/acparpol
Academic Quality Manuals and Forms
https://lncn.ac/qam
AI teaching, learning and Assessment Policy
https://lncn.ac/AITLA
Alcohol and Substance Misuse Policy
https://lncn.ac/alsubmispol
Anti-Bullying and Harassment Policy for Students
https://lncn.ac/anbulhapol
Employer Complaints and Disputes Policy (Apprenticeships)
https://lncn.ac/emcodispol
Extensions Policy
https://lncn.ac/extpol
Fitness to Study Policy
https://lncn.ac/ftspol
Immediate Temporary Removal of a Student (from Placement) Policy
https://lncn.ac/ftppol
Lecture Recording Guidance
https://lncn.ac/lecrecguipol
Level 7 Delivery by Collaborative Partners Policy
https://lncn.ac/dele7propol
Management of Assessment Policy
https://lncn.ac/manaspol
Misallocation of Marks Policy
https://lncn.ac/mismarpol
Module and Programme Evaluation Policy
https://lncn.ac/moproevpol
Monthly Boards Policy
https://lncn.ac/monboapol
Postponed Classes Policy
https://lncn.ac/posclapol
Programme Closures, Suspensions and Changes Policy
https://lncn.ac/proclsuchpol
Proof Reading Policy
https://lncn.ac/uolprpag
Reading and Resource List Policy
https://lncn.ac/rerelispol
Refund and Return to Title IV Funds Policy
https://lncn.ac/retifupol
Safeguarding Policy
https://lncn.ac/safepol
Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy
https://lncn.ac/saacpropol
Student Death Protocol
https://lncn.ac/studeaprpol
Student Mental Health Policy
https://lncn.ac/stumenhepol
Student Participation Policy
Student Participation Policy Addendum 2024-25
https://lncn.ac/eandppolicy
https://lncn.ac/addenpartpol
Student Policy on Use of Social Media
https://lncn.ac/stuusesmpol
Student Protection Plan
https://lncn.ac/protectplan
Student Refund and Compensation Policy
https://lncn.ac/refandcompol
Student Support and Tutoring Policy
https://lncn.ac/pertutpol
Students Under the Age of 18 Policy
https://lncn.ac/stuu18pol
Timetabling Policy
https://lncn.ac/timetablep
University Regulations
https://lncn.ac/uniregs
Workplace Education Activity Policy
https://lncn.ac/woredacpol
Delivery of Level 7 Provision by FE/HE Partner Colleges Policy
Electoral Campaigning on Campus Policy
https://lncn.ac/elecampol
Poster Policy
https://lncn.ac/postpol
Social Media (Staff)
https://lncn.ac/stfsocmedpol
Data Protection Policy
https://lncn.ac/DataP-policy
Information Ownership and Classification Policy
https://lncn.ac/infownclapol
Records Management
https://lncn.ac/recmngpol
For more information on Data Protection and Information Compliance please visit the Data Protection & Information Compliance page.
Acceptable Use Policy
https://lncn.ac/aup
Artificial Intelligence Policy
https://lncn.ac/aipol
Managing User Access Policy (ICT)
https://lncn.ac/manusaccpol
Print Policy
https://lncn.ac/prinpol
Technology Asset Management Policy (ICT)
Asset Management Process - Client Devices
Asset Management Process - BYOD
https://lncn.ac/assemanpol
https://lncn.ac/assetmancli
https://lncn.ac/assetmanbyod
Assistance Animals Policy for Students
https://lncn.ac/asanisupol
Gender-Based Violence (Preventing and Responding to) Policy
https://lncn.ac/gbvpolicy
Trans / Non-Binary / Gender Identity (under review)
https://lncn.ac/trnsgndnbpol
For more information about Equality, Diversity and Inclusion please visit the Equality Charter Success page.
CCTV
https://lncn.ac/cctvpol
Cycling and Storage Policy
https://lncn.ac/cycstopol
Estates Health and Safety Policy/statement of intent
https://lncn.ac/haspol
Space Management
https://lncn.ac/spamanpol
Thermal Comfort Policy
https://lncn.ac/thermcopol
University of Lincoln Parking Policy
https://lncn.ac/parkpol
https://lncn.ac/parksept25 (policy effective from 1st September 2025)
Visitors Policy 2023
https://lncn.ac/vispol
Anti Bribery Policy and policy on accepting gifts and hospitality
https://lncn.ac/antbripol
Anti Money Laundering Policy
https://lncn.ac/anmolaupol
Anti-Slavery Transparency Statement
https://lncn.ac/anslatrstpol
Ethical Investment Policy
https://lncn.ac/ethinbanpol
Expenses Card Policy
Further details on expenses
https://lncn.ac/expcardpol
https://lncn.ac/expenses
Financial Regulations
https://lncn.ac/finregpol
Fraud Policy
https://lncn.ac/fraudpol
Procurement Policy
Procurement and Expenses guidance
https://lncn.ac/procpol
https://lncn.ac/peguidance
Purchase card policy
https://lncn.ac/purcarpol
Treasury Management Policy
https://lncn.ac/treamanpol
Business Continuity Policy
https://lncn.ac/bcpol
Business Continuity Strategy
https://lncn.ac/bcstratpol
Code of Practice: Academic Practice and Freedom of Speech
https://lncn.ac/acfreesppol
Conflicts of Interest Policy
https://lncn.ac/coipol
External Speaker Policy
https://lncn.ac/exspepol
Incident Management Policy
https://lncn.ac/imtpol
Reportable Events Policy
https://lncn.ac/reporteventp
Risk Management Policy
https://lncn.ac/rmpol
Risk Management Strategy
https://lncn.ac/rmstratpol
Sponsorship of External Organisations and Individuals Policy
https://lncn.ac/spoexinpol
University Code of Ethics
https://lncn.ac/codeethpol
University Instrument and Articles of Government
Instrument of Government
Articles of Government
https://lncn.ac/instrument
https://lncn.ac/articlesog
Whistleblowing Policy
https://lncn.ac/whiblopol
Accident, Incidents and Near Miss Investigations Policy
https://lncn.ac/accincinvpol
Asbestos Management Policy
https://lncn.ac/asbmanpol
Biological Agents Policy
https://lncn.ac/bioagpol
CE Marking Guidance
https://lncn.ac/cemarkpol
Chemical Storage Policy
https://lncn.ac/chemstopol
Communicable Diseases Policy
https://lncn.ac/commdispol
Construction (Design & Management Policy)
https://lncn.ac/constrpol
Control of Electricity at Work Policy
https://lncn.ac/contrelecpol
Control of Substances Hazardous to Health Policy & Guidance
https://lncn.ac/coshhpol
Display Screen Equipment Policy
https://lncn.ac/dsepol
Driving at Work and Minibus Policy
https://lncn.ac/drivmbpol
Drone Policy
Drone Policy Appendix 1
https://lncn.ac/dronepol
https://lncn.ac/droneap1
Dangerous Substances and Explosive Atmospheres (DSEAR) Policy & Guidance
https://lncn.ac/dsearpol
Electromagnetic fields (EMF) Policy
https://lncn.ac/emfpol
First Aid Policy
https://lncn.ac/firstaidpol
Health and Safety Assurance Guidance
Health and Safety Assurance Policy
https://lncn.ac/hsassuranceg
https://lncn.ac/hsassurance
Health Surveillance Policy
https://lncn.ac/healthsur
Ionising Radiation Policy
https://lncn.ac/ionradpol
Kick-Stool Guidance
https://lncn.ac/kickstoolpol
Laser Pointer Guidance
https://lncn.ac/laserpoint
Legionella Policy
https://lncn.ac/legionpol
Lifting Operations and Lifting Equipment Policy
https://lncn.ac/lolepol
Lithium batteries
https://lncn.ac/batteriesp
Local Exhaust Ventilation Policy & Guidance
https://lncn.ac/levpol
Lone Working Policy
https://lncn.ac/loneworpol
Manual Handling Policy
Manual Handling Guidance
https://lncn.ac/manhanpol
https://lncn.ac/manuhanguide
New and Expectant Mothers Policy
https://lncn.ac/newexmotpol
Noise at Work Policy
https://lncn.ac/noisworkpol
Non ionising Radiation Policy
https://lncn.ac/nirspol
Offsite Working Policy
https://lncn.ac/offsworpol
PEEPs Policy for Staff
PEEP  referral form
PEEPs for Students
https://lncn.ac/peepspol
https://lncn.ac/peeprefer
https://lncn.ac/studentpeep
Personal Emergency Evacuation Plans (PEEPs)
https://lncn.ac/peepsformpol
Risk Assessment Policy & Guidance
https://lncn.ac/riskaspol
Sharp Blades and Knives Policy
https://lncn.ac/bladknipol
Smoking and Vaping on University Premises Policy
https://lncn.ac/smokvappol
Statement of Intent (Health and Safety)
https://lncn.ac/statintpol
Work Equipment Policy
https://lncn.ac/worequipol
Working at Height Policy
https://lncn.ac/worheipol
Young Workers Policy
https://lncn.ac/youworkpol
3D Printing Guidance
https://lncn.ac/3Dprint
Academic Probation
https://lncn.ac/acadprobpol
Academic Sabbatical Policy
https://lncn.ac/acadsabbpol
Additional Responsibility and Acting Up Allowance
Acting up form
https://lncn.ac/addresppol
https://lncn.ac/actingupform
Adverse Weather Conditions
https://lncn.ac/advweather
Agency Worker Regulations
https://lncn.ac/agencyworeg
Annual Leave
https://lncn.ac/annleavepol
Bereavement
https://lncn.ac/brvmntguidel
Bullying and Harassment (Staff)
https://lncn.ac/bulhrsmtpol
COVID-19 Isolation
https://lncn.ac/covidisopol
Criminal Convictions, Security Clearance and Disclosure & Barring Policy
https://lncn.ac/ppcclearance
Disciplinary Policy
Disciplinary Appeal Form
Disciplinary Witness Statement Form
https://lncn.ac/stffdiscppol
https://lncn.ac/disappform
https://lncn.ac/diswitform
Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS)
Click here for the guide to eligibility Use this gov.uk tool to find out what type of Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check you may need https://www.gov.uk/find-out-dbs-check
Employee Apprenticeships
https://lncn.ac/empapppol
Expenses & Overseas Travel
https://lncn.ac/travexppol
Further details on expenses can be found here.
Flexible Working
Flexible Working Form
https://lncn.ac/flexworkpol
https://lncn.ac/flexworkform
Grievance
https://lncn.ac/grievpol
Immigration reimbursement scheme
https://lncn.ac/immreimbsch
Improving Performance
Employee Guidance Notes
Manager Guidance Notes
https://lncn.ac/imprvperfpol
https://lncn.ac/empguidance
https://lncn.ac/manguidance
Industrial Action
https://lncn.ac/indstactpol
Leave of Absence
https://lncn.ac/leaveabspol
Managing Sickness Absence
Manager Guidance for delegation and reports in MyView
MyView recording sickness absence
Return to work form
https://lncn.ac/mgmtsickpol
https://lncn.ac/mandeleg
https://lncn.ac/mvsickness
https://lncn.ac/returntowork
Mandatory Training Policy
https://lncn.ac/mandtrainpol
Menopause
Guide to support individuals with menopause
https://lncn.ac/menopausepol
https://lncn.ac/menopause
Non-Disclosure Agreements for Employees
https://lncn.ac/ndaemppol
Organisational Change Policy
https://lncn.ac/orgchange
Overtime Policy
https://lncn.ac/overtimepol
Paid Participant (in Research) Payment Policy
Paid Participant Request Form
Paid Participant Reconciliation Form
https://lncn.ac/resprtpaypol
https://lncn.ac/partpayreq
https://lncn.ac/partpayrecon
Parental Leave
Parental leave application form
https://lncn.ac/parentlvpol
https://lncn.ac/parentleave
Pay Protection Policy
https://lncn.ac/payprotpol
Probation
https://lncn.ac/pssprobpol
Professional and Career Development Loan Policy
https://lncn.ac/profdevloan
Professional Development
https://lncn.ac/profdevpol
Professional services probation
Recruitment and Selection
https://lncn.ac/recselpol
Relocation
https://lncn.ac/relocatnpol
Retirement
Flexible working into retirement application form
https://lncn.ac/retirpol
https://lncn.ac/flexretire
Salary Sacrifice
https://lncn.ac/salsacpol
Season Ticket Loan
https://lncn.ac/seasontixpol
Senior Management Group Salary Review
https://lncn.ac/smgsalrevpol
Staff/Students Relationship Policy
https://lncn.ac/stfsturelpol
Stress in the Workplace
Departmental Stress Risk Assessment Form
Individual Stress Risk Assessment checklist
Managers Guide - Dealing with cases of work related stress
Managers Guide - Stress Risk Assessment
Tackling Stress - Management Standards Approach
Working together to reduce stress at work guide
https://lncn.ac/stresswrkpol
https://lncn.ac/dpstressrisk
https://lncn.ac/indstressra
https://lncn.ac/managstress
https://lncn.ac/mgrstressra
https://lncn.ac/tacklestress
https://lncn.ac/reducestress
Supporting New and Expectant Families (Maternity, Paternity and Adoption Leave)
Forms
Guide for new and expectant mothers who work
https://lncn.ac/newfampol
https://lncn.ac/hrforms
https://lncn.ac/newexpmother
Time off for training
Guidelines for Employees
Guidelines for Managers
Time off for Training Information
Application Form
https://lncn.ac/timetrainpol
https://lncn.ac/guideempl
https://lncn.ac/guideman
https://lncn.ac/timeofftrain
https://lncn.ac/timetrainapp
Transparency information
https://lncn.ac/transparency
Visa Loan Scheme Policy
Visa Loan Scheme Application Form
https://lncn.ac/visaloanpol
https://lncn.ac/visaloanapp
Withholding of Pay Policy
https://lncn.ac/overpaypol
Working Time Regulations
https://lncn.ac/wrktimeregs
Authorship, Contribution and Publishing Code of Practice
https://lncn.ac/autcontrpol
Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
https://lncn.ac/rdconcordat
Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers Progress Report
https://lncn.ac/concordatsr
Consultancy Policy
https://lncn.ac/conpol
Due Diligence Policy (International Research)
https://lncn.ac/dudilpol
Export Control Policy
Export Control form
https://lncn.ac/expcontrol
https://lncn.ac/exportcform
Intellectual Property Policy
https://lncn.ac/intpropol
Open Access Policy
Open Access and Rights Retention Policy (replacing the above open access policy from 1st September 2025)
https://lncn.ac/opaccpol
https://lncn.ac/OARRpol
Participant Payment Reconciliation Form
Procedure for the Investigation of Misconduct in Research
https://lncn.ac/rmisconduct
Research Code of Practice
https://lncn.ac/rescoprapol
Research Data Management Policy
https://lncn.ac/redatmanpol
Research Ethics Policy
https://lncn.ac/re
Research Excellence Framework (REF) Code of Practice
https://lncn.ac/reexfrapol
Research Unit Structure, Governance and Review Policy
https://lncn.ac/regovstrpol
Responsible Metrics Policy
https://lncn.ac/resmetpol
Spin Out Policy
https://lncn.ac/spoupol
Spinout Review: Statement of Best Practice Adoption 2024
The University of Lincoln's declaration of adoption statement regarding the government's Spinout Review and its alignment of best practice with University policy: The University of Lincoln is a strong proponent of research commercialisation for both monetary return and impact (societal benefit).
Efforts have been made within the institution to facilitate this activity by increasing IP and research commercialisation awareness amongst academics and researchers.
Commercialisation of research outputs at our institution is underpinned by our intellectual property and spinout policies and processes which are substantively aligned with the Spinout Review 2024 best practices.
Areas that require amendments for full alignment include a statement addressing the National Security and Investment Act 2021 and equity distribution for software spinout companies which has been suggested by the Review at a maximum of 10% for the university and minimum of 90% for inventors.
You can contact us regarding the adoption of the Spinout Review best practices by email at contracts@lincoln.ac.uk .
Teacher Education Framework for PGR Students Who Teach
https://lncn.ac/teedfrpgrpol
For more information on Sustainability at Lincoln please visit the Sustainability page.
Policy framework
https://lncn.ac/polframe
Policy documents template
https://lncn.ac/poldoctemp
Coming Soon
We are currently reviewing our suite of policy documents in order to ensure due alignment with Office for Students Regulation and Guidance relating to Academic Freedom and Free Speech as part of our commitment to securing free speech within law.
This work will include all policy documents relating to (list is not exhaustive):
In the meantime, or in cases of uncertainty, the definitive and up-to-date statement of the institution’s approach to freedom of speech is set out in our Code of Practice on Academic Freedom and Freedom of Speech and guidance can be sought from the Legal and Compliance Services team.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/abouttheuniversity/accessibility:
This accessibility statement applies to content published on the www.lincoln.ac.uk domain.
It does not necessarily apply to other linked sub-domains or partner sites, for example, blogs.lincoln.ac.uk .
We want as many people as possible to be able to use our website and we are continually working towards improving its accessibility.
We follow general principles of usability and universal design and endeavour to meet level 2 (AA) of the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.2.
Parts of this site may link to external, third-party services such as OneUni , dotdigital , Stonefish , and Eventbrite .
While the University advocates and strives to make content as accessible as possible, there may still be issues you might encounter on these sites.
If you are experiencing difficulties and would like support, you can contact our Enquiries Team at enquiries@lincoln.ac.uk or on 01552 886644 .
This website and the content on this website is managed by the University of Lincoln.
It is designed to be used by as many people as possible.
The University of Lincoln is committed to being inclusive and accessible to everyone.
Disabled people are a diverse group with differing requirements, some of which aren't always apparent.
By making our website and content accessible, it will improve the experience for all.
For example, this means that you should be able to:
Though we are committed to making our website accessible, we know some parts of this website are not fully accessible yet.
For example:
Each department and college which publishes content on the website www.lincoln.ac.uk is responsible for making sure it meets the accessibility regulations.
We will update this statement when issues are fixed or when we expect them to be fixed.
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.
The University’s Student Service's website offers up-to-date information for prospective students and staff with specific learning difficulties, disabilities, sensory impairments, mental health difficulties, and medical conditions.
If you need information in a different format, you can request it by sending an email .
In your message, please include:
We’ll consider your request and get back to you within 5 working days.
You can report also report any problems you find with alternative formats you receive.
If you find any problems that are not listed on this page or you think we are not meeting the accessibility requirements, you can:
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
The University of Lincoln is committed to making its websites accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.2 AA standard, due to the non-compliances and exemptions listed below.
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons.
Many documents are not accessible in some ways including missing text alternatives and missing document structure.
PDFs may not yet be fully accessible to screen reader software or users requiring high magnification with reflow.
We recommend readers to open the PDFs in Microsoft Word.
The Web layout view in Word is likely to give a better reflow and magnification experience up to 500%.
Immersive Reader in Word also gives a range of reading options.
If you find a document that does not meet your needs, or you think aren’t meeting the WCAG 2.2 guidelines, you can:
We believe that fixing accessibility problems with some content on our website would be a disproportionate burden because the issues are with third party platforms not under our control.
We will endeavour to work with third party platform providers to resolve known accessibility issues where possible, and implement accessible alternatives where necessary, but there are some services where we assess it would be a disproportionate burden to fix or replace them.
You can read our Disproportionate Burden Assessments at https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/abouttheuniversity/accessibility/disproportionateburdenassessments/ .
Many of our forms are built and hosted through third party software which is ‘skinned’ to look like our website.
Some of our interactive forms are difficult to navigate using a keyboard.
For example, because some form controls are missing a ‘label’ tag or have poor implementation.
Some forms cannot be resized without loss of content or functionality, and text doesn't meet the minimum contrast ratio between text and background.
Our site also hosts third-party multimedia content which may not be fully accessible.
This includes content we pull into our website from social media channels such as Twitter or YouTube and content hosted on platforms such a Panoee and Matterport.
We are responsible for ensuring the accessibility of the content we produce, however, we have no control over the accessibility of these platforms.
Non-HTML documents published before September 2018 do not need to be accessible – unless users need them to use a service.
Live-streamed video do not always have captions, depending on presenter tools and confidence.
This is exempt from the regulations.
We use the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.2 level A and level AA to test how accessible this website is.
We use the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines Evaluation Methodology to decide on a sample of pages to test.
We also tested a sample of pages involved in applying for a course.
To identify issues on this site we used a combination of:
We are continually working on our content and site structure, and finding ways to make the site more intuitive and easy to navigate.
In particular, we are currently focusing on resolving the following issues which are acknowledged in this accessibility statement.
This statement was prepared on 9 August 2022.
It was last reviewed on 16 December 2024.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/abouttheuniversity/governance/universitypolicies/websiteandpublicationsinformationliability:
The University of Lincoln takes seriously its responsibilities to respect the privacy and data rights of people using our website or contacting us by email or other electronic means.
On these pages you can find terms and conditions about use of the University's website, including our Privacy Notice which explains how we collect, handle and use personal information submitted through online forms and other channels.
You can also read more about use of cookies on our website and other policies relating to information compliance, including our obligations as a data controller under UK data protection legislation and as a public authority under the Freedom of Information Act.
You can find details about copyright law as it applies to content published on the University's website.
You can also find contact information for our Information Compliance team if you have any questions or comments about the University's approach to data protection, e-privacy or freedom of information.
The University of Lincoln collects personal information about you when you make an enquiry about our courses or book to attend our events.
We use this information to administer your request and help prospective students make informed decisions about whether they wish to apply to study with us.
We will also support you during the application process if you do choose to apply.
This notice explains more about how we use your personal information.
We collect information about you when you make an enquiry to the University about our courses in person, by email, over the phone or by submitting a request through our website (for example, when you register for an Open Day or speak to a member of staff through a live chat service).
Typically this will include your name, date of birth, gender, postal address, student status (eg.
whether you are a UK, EU or International student), email, phone number and some details about the course you are interested in and your proposed year of entry.
For international students, we may collect information about you if you make an enquiry about our courses via a third party website or agent, such as Hot Courses.
We will keep your information accurate and up-to-date if you provide us with additional information, tell us of any changes, or make further enquiries or requests.
We will note in your record if you register for and attend our events.
We will collect further information about you if you make an application to study at the University, either directly to us or via a service such as UCAS.
To update the personal information we hold about you, please contact our Enquiries team by email enquiries@lincoln.ac.uk or telephone +44(0)1522 886644.
We also collect information about you when you register to attend one of our public events.
Typically, this will be your name, email address, phone number and postal address.
If you register for a public event you will be invited to join our public events mailing list.
This is optional and if you do subscribe you can opt-out at any time.
You can ask for your information to be updated or removed by contacting us by email on events@lincoln.ac.uk or telephone +44(0)1522 837100.
A photographer or filmmaker may be present at some university events to document it on our behalf.
We process images and video taken at our events under our legitimate interests although we may ask subjects for their permission.
If you do not wish to be photographed or filmed please make our event staff aware.
On occasion the University organises competitions which are open to the public, including people aged 17 or under.
We only collect personal data necessary for administering the competition and do not use it for any other purpose.
We may ask a responsible adult such as a parent or teacher to provide permission for minors to enter a competition.
As processing of some personal data is necessary to administer a competition, we process personal data on the basis of our legitimate interests.
Entrants can request their personal information is updated or removed by emailing competitions@lincoln.ac.uk
If you enquire about our courses, such as requesting a Prospectus or booking onto an Open Day, we use your information to respond to your enquiry and fulfil your request.
We will provide relevant information which can help you make informed decisions about our courses and applying to study at the University.
For example, if you register to attend an Open Day we will confirm your booking and send you joining instructions so that you know what to expect and how to get the most from your visit.
We may send you marketing information about related products or services.
Our Enquiries team can also access your information if you contact us with questions about your preferred course or the application process, so they can better tailor advice to you.
The information you provide to us when you make an enquiry is processed in accordance with UK data protection legislation as being in the legitimate interests of the University.
If you go on to make an application to one of our courses your data will be processed to take steps necessary prior to entering a contract.
Your information is stored securely in the University’s Customer Relationship Management (CRM) software system.
Access to your information is restricted only to those staff who need it.
The information you provide as an enquirer is not used to inform decision-making should you make an application to the University.
If as a member of the public you register to attend one of our public events, we will store your information on a separate secure database in accordance with UK data protection legislation and in the legitimate interests of the University.
You may opt to join our public events mailing list and can unsubscribe from this list at any time.
We also use email for some business-to-business (B2B) marketing communications.
In these cases we may process some personal data as being in our legitimate interests.
You can unsubscribe from B2B e-communications at any time using the unsubscribe link in the message or by contacting the Communications, Development and Marketing Department on enquiries@lincoln.ac.uk or +44(0)1522 886644.
The University occasionally uses cookies and other technologies on its website that collect data about you when you use them.
Where this occurs further information will be available in our cookies policy.
The cookies policy for the University website can be found here: https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/privacy
We use a number of suppliers who process personal information on our behalf.
These include suppliers of software services and, for international enquirers, our overseas recruitment agents.
For international enquirers the University uses the student recruitment and enrolment management services of QS Enrolment Solutions who process personal information on our behalf.
These act strictly on our instructions and must not use the information for their own purposes.
QS Enrolment Services will act as a data processor and may contact enquirers, applicants (and their agents) to facilitate the application and enrolment process.
The University uses UniBuddy and Click4Assistance to enable prospective students to connect directly with our staff and students.
Use of UniBuddy and Click4Assistance is on the lawful basis defined in the respective Privacy Notices of the University of Lincoln, Click4Assistance, and UniBuddy.
Please note any special category data users provide in their use of UniBuddy or Click4Assistance is on the basis of their explicit consent.
Please see the UniBuddy Privacy Notice at https://unibuddy.com/privacy-policy/ and the Click4Asstance Privacy Notice at https://www.click4assistance.co.uk/privacy-policy .
In exceptional circumstances we may be asked to share your information with police or other investigators if it would prevent or detect crime or safeguard a person’s wellbeing.
Each instance will be judged on its own merit and any sharing of information will be done within the law.
Some of the software services we use to process personal information on our behalf are located outside of the European Economic Area (EEA).
In these instances information is protected using data security practices as set out in our Data Processing Agreements with suppliers (which may include use of Standard Contractual Clauses, for example).
Where we share information with overseas recruitment agents about student enquiries, we have Information Sharing Agreements in place.
We retain your personal information only as long as is necessary and in accordance with the University’s records retention schedule.
The University’s retention schedule has been created in line with the Jisc Retention Schedules.
The University reserves the right to change its retention schedule at any point.
Data will be kept securely and destroyed when no longer required.
The University may also decide to archive some data.
For more information regarding the retention of your personal data, please contact the Information Compliance team at compliance@lincoln.ac.uk
If after your enquiry you go on to apply and enrol as a student at the University further information will be collected and processed (please see our Student Enrolment Privacy Notice ).
You have a number of rights relating to your personal information.
These include:
Access - You have the right to request a copy of any personal information we hold about you.
If you would like a copy of any of your information please contact the Information Compliance team on the details below.
The team will process your request within a month.
Portability - If you have provided information on the basis of your consent or for a contract then you can request a digital copy so you can send it to another organisation.
To request a copy please contact the Information Compliance team on the details below.
Correction - If any of the information we hold about you is incorrect or incomplete then please let us know.
You have the right to have your information corrected so that we hold accurate records about you.
Erasure - This is also known as the right to be forgotten.
You can request that your personal information is erased if it is no longer necessary for the University to keep it, or you withdraw consent that you have previously provided, or you object and there is no overriding grounds to keep it or if it is unlawful to continue to keep it.
Restriction - You can request that the use of your personal information is limited to storage only and that we use it for no other purpose.
This applies where you contest the accuracy of the personal information we hold, or our use of the information is unlawful, or we no longer need the information except in relation to legal claims, or you object to the use of your data and we need to verify whether or not our purpose for keeping it overrides the grounds of your objection.
The Information Compliance team can be contacted by email on or by post at: Information Compliance, Secretariat, University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool, Lincoln, LN6 7TS.
If you object to our use of your personal information then we must stop unless we can demonstrate compelling legitimate grounds for continuing.
Please contact the University’s Enquiries team on enquiries@lincoln.ac.uk or +44(0)1522 886644 and explain your objection.
You may be asked to provide your consent to receive certain types of marketing communications.
You may withdraw this consent at any time.
Please let us know if you wish to change your marketing communications preferences by contacting our Enquiries team on the details above or by using unsubscribe links.
For general enquiries please call +44(0)1522 882000 or write to University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool, Lincoln, LN6 7TS.
You can find contact details for individual teams and staff by visiting https://staff.lincoln.ac.uk .
If you have a query about your personal information rights then please contact the Information Compliance team by email on compliance@lincoln.ac.uk or by post at Information Compliance, Secretariat, University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool, Lincoln, LN6 7TS.
If you feel that we have let you down in relation to your information rights then please contact the Information Compliance team by email on compliance@lincoln.ac.uk or by post at Information Compliance, Secretariat, University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool, Lincoln, LN6 7TS.
Their website is www.ico.org.uk and their telephone helpline number is 0303 123 1113.
Our Alumni and Supporters Privacy Notice can be found here: Privacy Notice .
A number of privacy notices for staff, students, and research participants can be found online at https://secretariat.blogs.lincoln.ac.uk/information-compliance/university-privacy-notices/ .
We partner with Microsoft Clarity and Microsoft Advertising to capture how you use and interact with our website through behavioral metrics, heatmaps, and session replay to improve and market our products/services.
Website usage data is captured using first and third-party cookies and other tracking technologies to determine the popularity of products/services and online activity.
Additionally, we use this information for site optimization, fraud/security purposes, and advertising.
For more information about how Microsoft collects and uses your data, visit the Microsoft Privacy Statement
Our website www.lincoln.ac.uk uses cookies to provide users with the best experience we can and to help us understand how visitors use our site.
Cookies are small text files that are downloaded to your device (such as your PC or tablet) via your web browser when you visit certain websites.
They are used for a variety of purposes, particularly to enhance a user’s experience by remembering certain details, like forms you have completed.
Some cookies are necessary for the full functionality of a website while others are for non-essential purposes, such as to optimise online marketing.
Non-essential cookies require consent to be placed on your device.
Some cookies expire automatically when you leave a site (session cookies) while others can remain for a set duration afterwards unless removed (persistent cookies).
Most mainstream web browsers allow users to block, remove or manage cookies.
You can learn more about cookies at www.allaboutcookies.org.
By accepting cookies on this website, you consent to their use.
The University of Lincoln website uses cookies to optimise users' experience, improve site performance, add certain features or functions, and provide analytics data to inform improvements.
We also use cookies to track the effectiveness of online marketing and to offer multimedia content or social networking features via third party services.
These are some of the main cookies used on our website www.lincoln.ac.uk (last updated July 2019).
This is not an exhaustive list and does not include cookies from all partner sites or microsites:
We set some cookies to improve functionality or performance, depending how you interact with our site.
These include: permutive-id; permutive-session; ASPSESSIONID; and ASP.NET_SessionID are session cookies which remember the user’s current session to improve experience on the site.
Our Find a Course search system retains the last entered search term and search filter settings within two cookies: coursefinder_inputLast and coursefinder_filterList.
The f5_cspm cookie is used to report on the client-side page load time for a given application.
Some cookies on our website are from third parties, and include: * Google Analytics – we use Google Analytics to understand how people access and interact with our website, including the source of their visit.
Cookies include _utma; _utmb; _utmc; _utmt; and _utmz.
For more information on Google Analytics cookies, see: https://policies.google.com/privacy
* Facebook – the cookie _fbp is used by Facebook to deliver targeted advertisements and monitor campaigns.
To read more on how to manage your Facebook ad preferences, see: https://www.facebook.com/about/privacy Social media embeds from services such as Twitter and YouTube may also set cookies on a user’s device.
Most major web browsers enable users to manage cookies directly in their settings.
Please be aware that disabling or removing certain cookies may prevent you from using the full functionality of the website.
You can find guides to disable cookies from the links below.
Google Chrome: https://support.google.com
Microsoft Edge: https://support.microsoft.com
Mozilla Firefox: https://support.mozilla.org
Microsoft Internet Explorer: https://support.microsoft.com
Opera: https://help.opera.com
Apple Safari: https://support.apple.com/en-gb/safari
If you email us with a general query, the information you provide to us will only be used to respond to your query.
You will not be added to a database or mailing list.
If you email us to request a prospectus or book onto an Open Day, we will add your details to our customer relationship management (CRM) system to enable us to process your request and provide useful information relating to it.
Please refer to our Privacy Notice for more detail on how we collect and use personal information from enquirers.
As permitted by the Telecommunications (Lawful Business Practice) (Interception of Communications) Regulations 2000 and by the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000, the University may electronically scan any emails received for obscene, indecent and illegal remarks and content.
The University may also scan any messages left in 'chat rooms', bulletin boards etc, provided on its Virtual Learning Environment, websites or other computing facilities for similar material.
Where the University is convinced that there is proper lawful authority for the interception of communications, our policy is to co-operate fully with the relevant authorities.
If, however, we are convinced that the authorities have exceeded their powers either deliberately or by oversight, it is the policy of the University to assist Data Subjects in any complaint to the proper regulatory authority.
Information about the University's Freedom of Information Publication Scheme and its legal obligations can be found on the Secretariat site:
https://secretariat.blogs.lincoln.ac.uk/data-protection-information-compliance/news/
FOI requests can be made directly to: foi@lincoln.ac.uk
All material published on the University of Lincoln's websites (unless stated otherwise), is the property of the University and must not be copied or distributed for any commercial purpose.
This includes, but is not limited to, the University's logo, graphics, website design and contents.
The University permits the taking of copies of material published on its web pages for personal use only, in electronic or hard copy form, providing that the copyright notice, below, is retained on each copy.
Making alterations to any of the pages, or using content in any other work or publication, other than for quotation purposes, will be a direct breach of the University's copyright and may result in civil action.
The University's prior written permission must be obtained for any other use of material contained in its web pages.
The University of Lincoln makes every possible effort to ensure that the information published on its websites is accurate and up to date, but reserves the right to make amendments at any time and without prior notice.
The University provides hyperlinks to third party websites not affiliated with the University, for the convenience of users only.
By linking to these websites the University of Lincoln in no way endorses the contents, views or information held on such sites.
To the fullest extent permitted by the law, the University of Lincoln nor any of its officers or employees shall be liable for any loss, additional costs or damage howsoever arising, suffered as a result of using the University's websites or links provided to third party websites.
If you have any questions or comments about the University's approach to data protection, privacy and information compliance, please email: compliance@lincoln.ac.uk or write to:
Information Compliance Secretariat (Academic Registry) University of Lincoln Brayford Pool Lincoln LN6 7TS
While the Information Compliance Team is working remotely, we would kindly ask that all communications that are posted are also sent to compliance@lincoln.ac.uk .
This will ensure we can respond to your queries in a timely manner while our access to campus is limited.
Further information about the University’s Data Protection Policy and its legal obligations can be found at the following link:
https://secretariat.blogs.lincoln.ac.uk/information-compliance/data-protection/

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/abouttheuniversity/governance/universitypolicies/transparencyinformation:
The information published on this page and the Transparency Document shows:
The number of students who attained a particular degree or other academic award, or a particular level of such an award, on completion of their course with us.
It shows these numbers by reference to: - The gender of the individuals to which they relate - Their ethnicity - Their socioeconomic background.
Table Key
N - 20 or fewer students in this population N/A – No provision in a given mode or level.
DP - Data supressed for data protection reasons
For details of non-numeric values in the following tables, please see the 'Rounding and suppression' worksheet in the Transparency Document above.
Table 1a: Percentage of classified first degrees at grade 2:1 or above by characteristic for 2021-22 qualifiers.
Our Access and Participation Plan outlines how we are going to create a university that serves everyone in our One Community.
By supporting underrepresented groups in accessing and being successful in higher education, we are ensuring that we encourage excellence from all walks of life, strengthening our diverse One Community.
These documents outline our annual fee information since 2021 academic year.
Annual Fee Information Summary 2021-22 (PDF)
Annual Fee Information Summary 2022-23 (PDF)
Annual Fee Information Summary 2023-24 (PDF)
Annual Fee Information Summary 2024-25 (PDF)
Annual Fee Information Summary 2025-26 (PDF)

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/equalityofopportunity:
At Lincoln, we believe that everyone should have the chance to access and thrive in higher education, no matter their background or personal circumstances.
As part of our commitment to equality of opportunity – and in line with requirements set by the Office for Students – our Access and Participation Plan outlines the steps we’re taking to make university more open, fair, and supportive for students who might face extra barriers.
This includes working with schools and colleges to support their students in taking the next step, creating inspiring on-campus experiences, and ensuring our admissions process is fair and inclusive.
And once here, our support continues with financial aid, academic mentoring, careers advice, and expert wellbeing services.
It’s all about helping you get in, feel at home, and achieve your goals with confidence.
We’re committed to increasing access to higher education for students from the most disadvantaged backgrounds, ensuring everyone has the opportunity to reach their full potential.
We’re working with schools and colleges to challenge perceptions of university and make sure young men feel supported and confident in taking the next steps into higher education.
We’re supporting ethnic minority students to progress through their studies on an equal footing with their peers, working towards closing attainment gaps.
We’re committed to ensuring disabled students have the right support to achieve their goals, tailoring interventions to understand and meet individual needs and experiences.
We’re working to remove the challenges that students from the most disadvantaged backgrounds face, helping them progress and succeed at the same rate as their peers.
We’re committed to ensuring disabled students at Lincoln have the right support to transition into graduate jobs or further study, creating a clear path for success beyond university.
Our commitment to improving access and participation starts before you enrol and continues during your time with us.
From providing alternative entry routes to our courses, to offering financial, academic, and careers support, there are dedicated services in place for you.
We have developed a range of offers for our courses that recognise the different challenges facing students, designed to help level the playing field for all who want to apply to university.
Starting university is a big step, but it's important to know that you are not alone.
We offer a range of financial, academic, and personal support to help you when you need it the most.
Careers and Employability provide career guidance and recruitment advice for all, with tailored support for disabled students to develop skills, explore opportunities, and strive towards future goals.
We recognise that each student has different experiences and different needs.
That is why, alongside our main support resources, we have a wealth of bespoke support for students who identify as being part of an underrepresented group in higher education.
To help with the costs of going to university for the first time, we offer a range of scholarships and bursaries for eligible students.
Some of these are applied directly to students through information disclosed during application, and some are available for students to apply for.
The full list is available on the scholarships and bursaries site.
The University of Lincoln Scholarship is for UK students whose household income is less than £45,875/year.
Find out more
The Blackburn Bursary aims to provide extra support for students coming to the University who have previously received local authority care and are defined as ‘care leavers’, as determined in the Children (Leaving Care) Act 2000.
Each year the Foyer Federation inform the University of students’ who intend to enrol directly from living in a Foyer.
George Major Bursaries aims to provide bursaries for students with life-limiting illnesses - a life-limiting condition is an incurable condition that will shorten a person's life, though they may continue to live an active life for many years
We provide bespoke guidance to schools and colleges across the UK, working closely with students from all backgrounds to help them explore the full range of educational opportunities to help them pursue their dreams and achieve their goals and ambitions.
Our dedicated team of advisors visits schools and colleges across the country offering expert advice and support through in-class sessions, workshops, and presentations.
The team also organises online sessions and exciting events on our Brayford Pool Campus, where students can explore our first-class facilities, while experiencing what life is like as a student at the University of Lincoln.
The Wellbeing Orientation Welcome (WOW) summer school is a free event that supports students who have a diagnosis or condition which may make the transition to university more challenging.
It's the perfect way to get to know the University, make friends, and have fun.
The University's Student Charter outlines our commitment to delivering a high-quality learning experience to all of our students, whoever they are and wherever they are from.
To help us with our goals of promoting access to higher education, we collect, use, and share your personal data when you participate in outreach and widening participation activities, recorded in the Higher Education Access Tracker (HEAT) .
Please see our privacy notice .

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/undergraduatestudy/whatisanundergraduatedegree:
An undergraduate degree is typically the next level of academic qualification that follows school or college, and is studied at university or another higher education provider.
A degree can give you the opportunity to focus your studies on a topic you enjoy, improve your job prospects, gain valuable transferable skills, and develop your independence and self-confidence.
Below, you will find some helpful advice about choosing a course that is right for you, understanding entry requirements, and what study looks like at university.
A Bachelor’s or Honours degree is the most common type of undergraduate degree.
Depending on the course you choose to study, you may receive awards such as a BA (Bachelor of Arts), BSc (Bachelor of Science), BEng (Bachelor of Engineering), or LLB (Bachelor of Law).
A number of our courses also offer a four-year integrated Master's version, allowing you to complete an additional year of study which is often focused on more advanced research skills and topics.
We offer a number of options to study a joint honours course, which allows you to study more than one subject and combine them into a single qualification.
Lincoln also offers a range of 'sandwich' courses, which are programmes that include a year-long work placement in an industry related to your course.
You may also choose to study a degree apprenticeship, which combines working with part-time study at university.
They offer an alternative to traditional degrees and have been developed in collaboration with employers and professional bodies to ensure they meet the specific needs of industry.
The way you learn at university is likely to be quite different from your experience of learning at school or college.
Teaching and learning is delivered in a variety of different ways, depending on the course that you choose, and may include lectures, seminar discussions, one-to-one time with your tutor, working with academics on research projects, hands-on practical workshops or lab sessions, and getting involved with extracurricular skills development programmes.
We offer a variety of additional opportunities for our students to enhance their undergraduate experience.
Take your studies off-campus and get involved with exciting field trips, undertake a work placement and put your leaning into practice in real-world scenarios, or join one of our growing portfolio of worldwide partners to study or work aboard.
Contact hours vary by course and can take many of the forms mentioned above.
A full-time undergraduate student should expect to undertake a minimum of 37 hours of study each week during term-time, supplementing contact hours with independent study.
Students will be expected to regularly attend on-campus teaching activities such as lectures and seminars, often taking place across the entire week.
This is in addition to independent study at the library and group activities.
The way in which you will be assessed will also depend on your chosen course.
It may include coursework, written and practical exams, portfolio development, group work, or presentations.
A full breakdown of current assessment methods can be found on the individual course pages of this website.
The best way to find out more about the University and our courses is to visit us.
We have a wide range of events across the year for you to explore our beautiful Brayford Pool Campus and see what living and learning in Lincoln may be like.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/undergraduatestudy/howtoapply:
Applications are now open for 2025 entry to our undergraduate courses, and you can apply through UCAS .
The equal consideration deadline for most courses was 29 January 2025, however you can still apply as normal through UCAS until 30 June 2025 .
Any applications made after this time will be entered into Clearing.
On this page you can find the information you need to apply to university, from crafting the perfect personal statement to key dates and deadlines.
It is important to make sure that you have all of the information you need to make the best decision for you.
This information can be found either on our course pages , or by getting in touch with our friendly Enquiries Team .
You can also call our Enquiries Team on +44 (0)1522 886644 or contact our Admissions Team on +44 (0) 1522 886097.
Make sure you also take a look at our alternative entry routes and contextual offers .
These are designed to support students from a range of backgrounds to access higher education.
You can also calculate your expected tariff points using UCAS's Tariff Calculator .
Entry requirements
Core and optional modules
Fees and any additional costs
Modes of delivery
Assessment methods
Typical contact hours
Once you’ve read all the available information about studying at Lincoln and chosen the right course for you, you can submit your application online at www.ucas.com .
Part-time applications should be made directly to the University using our online application system.
After you have submitted your application, remember to check UCAS Hub for your offer or any invitations to interview.
Once you have received an offer, you will also be invited to an Offer Holder Day where you can test-drive your subject before making your firm and insurance choices.
A personal statement is written by you and is your best opportunity to show universities why you are a great candidate for their course.
Take a look at our personal statement tips webpage to help you craft the perfect personal statement.
We will support offer holders on their journey through the application process to the day they enrol.
We offer lots of information to help offer holders start planning for their next steps, whether that's selecting their accommodation options, running Offer Holder Days, or connecting with fellow applicants and current students from their chosen subject area.
Clearing - Clearing is an extra opportunity for you secure a place at university.
The process is aimed at students who are not holding any offers, have missed the entry requirements for their firm and insurance choices, or are considering university for the first time after 5 July 2025 .
Learn more on UCAS's dedicated Clearing webpage .
Conditional Offer - An offer of a place at university subject to you meeting set requirements such as certain grades.
Visit our Offer Guide for more information.
Contextual Offer - An offer that recognises not everyone has the same opportunities and support and therefore may include reduced entry requirements.
Visit our Offer Guide for a more detailed explanation.
Equal Consideration Deadline - Applications submitted before 29 January 2025 are considered regardless of when they were submitted.
After this date, universities only have to consider your application if they have space.
Firm Choice - This is the university you would most like to go to.
Insurance Choice - This is the university you would like to go to if you don't get into your firm choice.
Personal Statement - A 4,000 character piece of writing explaining what makes you a great candidate for your course.
Check out our Personal Statement Tips webpage for even more advice.
Student Finance - The way most people pay for university and cover living costs.
Our Fees and Funding webpage is packed with more information, including what scholarships and bursaries we offer.
UCAS Extra - This is another way for you to get a place at university if you aren't holding any offers between 26 February 2025 and 4 July 2025.
Visit UCAS's dedicated webpage for more information.
Unconditional Offer - An offer to study with us that does not include any conditions.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/undergraduatestudy/feesandfunding:
We know that going to university is a big step and many families are considering their options with the rising cost of living.
At Lincoln, we believe that your financial background should never be a barrier to higher education.
In addition to a wide range of loans, allowances, and scholarships and bursaries, our great location, affordable accommodation options, and our city's competitive prices make Lincoln a great place to study.
Thanks to our location in the heart of the city centre, almost everything our students could need is within walking distance, meaning they don’t need to worry about bringing a car or catching public transport to get around, helping them to save money.
Lincoln has been named the most affordable student city in the UK in the NatWest Student Living Index 2025.
The cost of food, drinks, and social activities are competitive in Lincoln, and our new LinCard can help by offering up to 15 per cent cashback on everyday essentials and special occasion purchases at many high street and online retailers.
The University of Lincoln and the Students’ Union have created a dedicated hub which provides a range of helpful information and advice on how to help you manage your finances, and the support available if you’re struggling.
Cost of Living Hub
We offer a range of merit-based and subject-specific scholarships and bursaries for eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time.
In the UK, university students are classified as either Home or Overseas students in relation to the cost of tuition fees.
Your student status , and therefore the level of tuition fee you are required to pay, is determined by your nationality and the country where you usually live.
UK full-time student tuition fees for undergraduate entry at the University of Lincoln in the 2025/26 academic year are £9,535 per year*.
Most students cover the cost by applying for a Tuition Fee Loan , which is paid directly to the University.
If you are starting your studies in 2025, repayments for your student loan will not begin until you finish your studies and are earning at least £25,000 a year*.
The amount you repay will depend on how much you earn, regardless of what you borrow.
The current rate is nine per cent of income above £25,000 and repayments are made automatically through the tax system.
Interest rates are based on the retail price index (RPI) and any outstanding repayments will be written off after 40 years.*
Tuition fees for international students will vary depending on the type of programme and study level you choose.
For more information about fees and funding for international students, visit our international webpages .
*Fee and repayment terms are subject to change in line with government policy.
Students can also apply for a means-tested Maintenance Loan of up to £10,227 per academic year (for 24/25 academic year), which would be paid into your bank account in instalments at the start of each term.
The exact amount students can borrow depends on your family’s income, where you live, what year of study you’re in, the course you will be studying, and if you are studying full-time or part-time.
Please note that the fees and funding system differs for part-time and international students.
Disabled Students’ Allowance (or DSA) provides extra help for students who have a diagnosed disability which may cause them difficulty with fully engaging in all elements of their academic studies.
You may claim DSA in addition to your student finance loans and grants to cover any extra study related costs you incur due to a disability, mental health condition, or learning difficulty (such as dyslexia or dyspraxia).
DSA provides funding for specific equipment, non-medical help, and general allowances which are recommended by an Assessor and agreed by your sponsor.
The amount you will receive depends on your individual needs, and does not need paying back.
More about DSA
If you're looking to work to support you while you study, our Campus Jobs Service can help you find work, earn money, and develop employability skills, all while balanced around your studies.
You can apply for as many roles as you wish and will be supported through the recruitment process by our Campus Jobs Team.
If your tuition fees are not paid by a sponsor or directly by Student Finance, you will need to pay them yourself.
Visit our How to Pay pages to find out more about the process and accepted payment methods.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/placements:
Work placements provide invaluable experiences which can inform your future career decisions.
They can offer a unique chance to apply your academic knowledge in real-world situations and enhance your employability in a competitive job market.
We have built a variety of partnerships with local and national organisations to deliver a wealth of quality placement options.
Whether you are shadowing someone for a few hours a week, or working within a company for a year, you can develop practical skills that are desirable to employers.
Many of our courses offer placement opportunities and you can find specific information on what may be available to you on our course pages.
Learn industry best practice
Build professional networks
Experience different careers
Develop interpersonal skills
Gain valuable work experience
Use your new skills in a real-world environment
There are a variety placement options and each one has its own unique benefits designed to enable you to get the most you can from the experience.
Below are examples of some of the most common types of placements:
These credit-bearing placements are designed to fit in around your other studies and contribute towards your overall grade.
As they are usually shorter placements, it's a good idea to choose a placement which targets an area or key skills which you would like to learn more about.
These are usually an integral part of courses on which they appear and can be essential to you qualifying or even registering with professional bodies after graduation.
Practice placements can sometimes come in blocks where you are only on placement and not in teaching sessions in-between.
These cost £1,850 and will often take place between your second and third year, giving you the chance to become part of a team within a company for a sustained period of time.
You may move around the company across that year to give you as broad a view as possible into what opportunities lie beyond your degree.
You’ll never be without support when embarking on a work placement opportunity.
The University’s Careers and Employability Team is available to offer professional advice and assistance to Lincoln students.
You can book a one-to-one appointment with a Placement and Work Experience Advisor to help you search for opportunities, craft your application, and prepare for interviews.
Support is also available when considering funding for a placement opportunity.
For example, the University’s Student Services Team may be able to provide a course-related travel grant to use during your work experience.
Ellie Paget studied BA (Hons) Business Studies and undertook a year long placement at Nestlé w hile at the University of Lincoln
My placement was the foundations of my career and I'd recommend work experience to anyone.
During my studies, I was supported with career advice including CV support and mock assessment centres from the Careers and Employability Service.
This was the basis of my successful year-long industry placement, at Nestlé.
After graduating I returned to Nestlé working as a Business Solutions Analyst.
After being in role for two years, I received a promotion to become a Business Solutions Specialist.
To broaden your horizons even further, why not take advantage of our overseas partner organisations?
Some courses offer opportunities to work or volunteer abroad , allowing you to explore new cultures while gaining new professional and personal skills.
From short-term opportunities such as academic field trips to placement years abroad which cost £1,385 , there is a range of different options if you'd like to travel during your degree.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/postgraduatestudy/feesandfunding:
At the University of Lincoln, we believe financial background should not be a barrier to postgraduate study.
We offer a range of scholarships and allowances to support students, in addition to the Government’s postgraduate loans.
Whichever postgraduate route you are looking to take, our friendly Postgraduate Team are on hand to support you with information about your funding options and guidance on the cost of living while at University.
The University offers a range of merit-based, subject-specific, and country-focused scholarships for UK and international students.
University of Lincoln alumni may be eligible for an Alumni Scholarship which can reduce fees by up to 20% for UK students.
If you choose a postgraduate programme, you may be apply for a Master's loan of up to £12,471*.
The Government also offers doctoral loans of up to £29,390* for students enrolling onto full-time PhDs and equivalent postgraduate research programmes.
Postgraduate students are an integral part of our research community and work alongside talented academics and researchers from around the world.
There may be opportunities to get involved in exciting research projects by applying for a studentship.
*Figures may be subject to change in line with government policy.
You will need to have funding in place for your studies before you arrive at the University.
Your Postgraduate Loan may contribute to your tuition fees and you may pay your fees upfront or in instalments.
Our fees vary depending on the course, mode of study, and whether you are a UK or international student.
Some of our programmes may also have additional study costs for materials and field trips.
Please see the individual course pages on this website for specifc details.
For information on how to pay your fees to the University, please visit our How to Pay pages.
Recent increases in the cost of living are affecting everyone.
To help ease some of the uncertainty you may be feeling, the University of Lincoln and the Students’ Union have created a dedicated hub which provides a range of helpful information and advice on how to help you manage your finances, and the support available if you’re struggling.
Postgrad.com has launched five Postgrad Solutions Study Bursaries, worth £2,000 each.
These can be used to help fund your postgraduate study for 2025.
All postgraduate students are eligible to apply, no matter what your subject choice or if you are studying full-time, part-time, or online.
Worth up to £30,000, this scholarship is funded by the Snowdon Trust and has been designed for disabled students who want to make an impact as a role model, pioneer, or leader.
Applications open on Wednesday 15 January on the Snowdon Trust website.
Claudio currently works as an Applied Scientist at Amazon, supporting the Transportation Services department in making their product more efficient through machine learning models.
I was really interested in the PhD project I started at Lincoln, and built most of my technical knowledge while at University.
I have published my work in several journals and have presented at international conferences and am now enjoying solving problems and working on exciting projects in my current role.
I would encourage everyone to develop their passions.
It pays off in the end.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/postgraduatestudy/howtoapply:
Once you’ve chosen the right programme for you, you can make an application to the University of Lincoln via our website.
Simply click the ‘Apply Now’ button on the web page of your chosen course.
You'll need to register to create an account so you can save your progress.
You do not have to complete your application in one go.
If you have already started your application and want to continue or are ready to submit your application, you can access this on the One Uni site.
Applications for most programmes open one year prior to the start of the course.
Places are limited for some courses, so it is best to submit your application as early as possible.
This is useful if you are hoping to secure funding or want to apply for accommodation.
Alongside your application, you will need to include a personal statement, one or two references depending on the type of programme, copies of completed qualiﬁcation certiﬁcates and transcripts, and evidence that you meet our English language entry requirements where appropriate.
If you are applying for an MA/MSc by Research, an MPhil, or a PhD, you can find out more about the application process on our postgraduate research degree pages.
It's important that you have all the information you need to make an informed decision when you are applying for postgraduate study.
This includes start dates, contact hours, a list of core and optional modules for taught degrees, areas of study for research programmes, modes of delivery, assessment methods, entry requirements, and details of fees and any additional costs you may incur.
Our course pages can provide you with the information you need.
Before you apply to Lincoln, you should check that you meet the necessary entry requirements.
These vary so please visit the course pages on our website for programme-speciﬁc information or talk to our Postgraduate Team.
The University accepts a wide range of qualiﬁcations as the basis for entry, including honours degrees, postgraduate diplomas, and professional qualiﬁcations.
We oﬀer the opportunity for advanced entry using credit awarded for previous achievement, both through formal study and knowledge, and through skills acquired through life and work.
To discuss Accreditation of Prior Learning, please contact our Admissions Team on +44 (0)1522 886097.
For prospective international students looking to apply for a University of Lincoln postgraduate degree, it is important that you are aware of the academic, language, and visa requirements that you will need to meet.
You can find out more on our How to Apply pages.
If you would like to discuss your suitability for any of our programmes, please contact the academic listed on the relevant course page on our website or come to one of our postgraduate events.
We offer a range of merit-based, subject-specific, and country-focused scholarships for UK and international students, in addition to the Government's postgraduate and doctoral loans.
University of Lincoln alumni may be eligible for an Alumni Scholarship, which can reduce fees by up to 20% for UK students.
Our Postgraduate Team can help you with all stages of the application process.
Simply call +44 (0)1522 886644 or email pgenquiries@lincoln.ac.uk.
International students who require support with their application can contact our dedicated International Oﬃce on +44 (0)1522 308108 or by email at internationalenquiries@lincoln.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/opendaysandvisits/postgraduateevents:
We know that choosing to study for a postgraduate qualification is a major decision, no matter where you are on your personal or professional journey.
There’s lots to consider and it’s crucial that you get all the information you need to make the right choice for you.
We hold a number of dedicated postgraduate events and activities throughout the year for you to take part in.
These give you the perfect opportunity to find out more about postgraduate study and what you need to do to take those exciting and rewarding next steps.
Wednesday 1 October 2025 (4pm - 6pm)
Our Open Days are the best way to find out about postgraduate student life at Lincoln.
You can chat with academics, tour our facilities, and get expert advice on funding your postgraduate qualiﬁcation.
As well as hearing a series of talks by our expert staﬀ, there’ll be time to talk to our Postgraduate Team about our support services, applying to Lincoln, and any other questions you may have.
We run postgraduate application drop-in sessions on the first Wednesday of every month from 1.30pm until 4.30pm on the second floor of the Minerva Building (room MB2101), on our Brayford Pool Campus.
It is well worth exploring what the University has to offer at one of its superb Open Days and other events.
You can also speak to existing and former students to find out more about Lincoln.
Rachael Shaw
PhD (Professional) in Education

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/studyinjanuary:
We are delighted to offer a range of postgraduate taught courses starting in January 2026.
Whether you’re looking to move into a new career or study a subject you love, postgraduate study at the University of Lincoln can help you to develop your knowledge, build new skills, or even prepare you to start your own business.
Our Brayford Pool Campus is located in the centre of one of England's great historic cities
The following courses in the School of Agri-food Technology and Manufacturing are accepting applications for the January 2026 intake:
The following courses in the School of Engineering and Physical Sciences are accepting applications for the January 2026 intake:
The following courses in the School of Education and Communication are accepting applications for the January 2026 intake:
The following courses in the Lincoln Law School are accepting applications for the January 2026 intake:
The following courses in the Lincoln International Business School are accepting applications for the January 2026 intake:
The following two-year courses in the School of Health and Care Sciences are accepting applications for the January 2026 intake:
We are now closed for applications from students domiciled in Pakistan and Bangladesh.
Our country and regional webpages contain lots of information to help you prepare for your application to the University of Lincoln.
Select your country from the list to find out more information regarding our academic and English language requirements and how to connect with our representatives near you.
We are delighted to offer a range of international scholarships from £1,000 to 50% off tuition fees for eligible students joining us in January 2026.
As a Lincoln student you will be joining a campus university with a reputation for teaching of the highest standard.
You’ll be part of a great community too where we hope you’ll feel encouraged and supported to achieve your potential.
Our webinars, subject masterclasses, question and answer sessions, and student panel talks are designed to help you prepare for your exciting journey to the UK and the University of Lincoln.
They are also a great way to find out more about what makes Lincoln such a special place to live and study.
Our tuition fee discounts are designed to help support international students enrolling at the University in January 2026.
The discounts, alongside our wide range of international scholarships, have been created to help make studying at Lincoln more accessible for students from around the world.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/opendaysandvisits/postgraduateevents/meetthemasters:
Our Meet the Master’s lecture series is an opportunity for you to indulge your curiosity and get a taste of what studying a Master’s degree at Lincoln could be like.
Our expert academics deliver bitesize lectures on topics ranging from politics to poisons, introducing you to some of the concepts and ideas you could explore further with a postgraduate degree.
Discover our Meet the Master's lecture series and explore where curiosity can lead.
Explore the real-life world of fictions most famous poisons
Discover how AI is impacting the world of journalism
Learn about the life of Eleanor of Castile
Learn about how AI is shaping the world of robotics
Examine the relationship between human rights, democracy, and judicial decision making
Discover the secrets to making impactful decisions in business
Discover how movies are being used in therapy
Learn about the role of women in conflict through the medieval period
Learn more about postgraduate study at Lincoln and discover where it could take you.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/postgraduateapplicantsandofferholders:
We’re delighted that you’ve applied for a place on one of our postgraduate courses here at the University of Lincoln.
Whether you aspire to be a leading expert in your field or simply want to pursue a passion, a postgraduate course is an investment in your future.
This section will walk you through what happens next once you’ve applied.
If you are an international applicant, you can find information tailored to your journey on our international offer holders web page .
To support you on your journey, our dedicated Postgraduate Team oﬀers one-to-one calls or meetings where you can discuss your individual circumstances in detail.
The Team can support you in finding relevant funding streams, or arrange one-to-one chats with academic staﬀ for any course-speciﬁc enquiries.
There's also regular online advice sessions giving you the chance to find out about the different ways you can fund your postgraduate study at Lincoln.
If you've applied for a taught programme, our Postgraduate Team will review your application and contact you if they require any further information.
Depending on which course you have applied for, you may be invited for an interview or audition.
You can keep an eye on your application’s progress at any time by logging onto OneUni , our self-service portal.
If you've submitted an application for a research programme, you can contact our Postgraduate Team for specific advice on your journey as this process is more bespoke.
Accept your offer via OneUni by following the instructions after logging in.
If the offer is conditional, your next step is to submit evidence of meeting the conditions of your offer either by uploading the documents to your OneUni account or by emailing them to pgenquiries@lincoln.ac.uk .
If you have already received your results and meet the course requirements, your offer may be unconditional.
It is important to note that if you did not complete your undergraduate degree at Lincoln, you will be asked to provide your degree certificate/s from your previous institution.
A Postgraduate Loan may contribute to your tuition fees and help support you while studying.
We  also offer a range of scholarships and bursaries to support students, including a discount on tuition fees for eligible alumni.
The fees stated in your offer letter are the full, standard fees, and do not include any scholarships or bursaries that you may be eligible for.
We know how important it is to have somewhere great to call home.
We have a variety of postgraduate only apartments and blocks across our residences, all located in the heart of the city.
Living with other postgraduate students means that you are surrounded by a community of like-minded people.
If you haven’t already, we highly recommend coming to visit us as it will give you a real feel for what it is like to study at Lincoln.
We offer a number of opportunities throughout the year to meet us and explore our spectacular Brayford Pool Campus.
Once you have accepted your offer, we will be in regular contact with you via email to walk you through the next steps.
Rest assured that you will be provided with all the information you'll need before starting at Lincoln.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/howtoapply:
Applying to university is an exciting time and we are delighted you are considering the University of Lincoln.
To help you prepare, our step by step guide contains an overview of the important things you will need to consider before submitting your application.
You can also find out more about how to apply and the help and support we can provide.
We look forward to meeting you soon.
There are more than 300 University of Lincoln undergraduate and postgraduate courses to choose from across the arts, sciences, and social sciences.
Once you have decided which course you would like to study, we recommend carefully checking the entry requirements you will be expected to meet.
Head over to the page below to find out more information about our tuition fees, the cost of living, and our range of scholarships.
Once you have completed your research, it's time to think about submitting your application.
Find out more below about how to apply and the help and support available.
Apply Through an
The University of Lincoln works in partnership with education agents around the world.
Our education agent partners are available to help you find a course which matches your ambitions, guide you through our admissions process, and support you in organising your visa.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/clearingforinternationalstudents:
Clearing offers another opportunity to find a space on your dream undergraduate course this September.
Whether you're yet to apply, your results are different to what you were expecting, you haven't received any offers you'd like to accept, or you have simply changed your mind about where you would like to study, we're here to help during every step of the process.
From our modern city centre campus and award-winning accommodation, to our gold-standard teaching and excellent student experience, there are plenty of reasons to choose Lincoln.
We'll be updating this page with plenty of helpful information as we get closer to Clearing opening, to make your application as simple as possible.
Clearing for September 2025 entry opens on Saturday 5 July.
Are your results different from what you were expecting?
Would you like to study at a different university?
Are you interested in beginning your studies in September?
Would you like to study a different course?
Remember, you can still apply as normal through UCAS until 30 June 2025 and applications submitted after this deadline are automatically entered into Clearing.
Below, you can search the exciting, diverse range of courses that we offer here at Lincoln.
Prepare a list of universities that you would be interested in speaking to
Research courses that you might want to apply for
Consider different possible outcomes for results day
Read over your personal statement to remind yourself of what you've submitted
Once you have accepted your unconditional offer of a place, you will be required to pay your deposit and complete the Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) request form.
Visit our Applying for your CAS and Visa webpage for further information.
Find Out More
We cannot wait to welcome you to our student community and for you to experience what makes Lincoln a special place to live and learn.
On our Arrivals Guide page, you can find out more information to help you prepare for your journey to the UK and to campus, alongside advice and tips on settling in during your first few weeks as a student.
Arrivals Guide
The University of Lincoln offers a great range of accommodation options within the city-centre, the majority of which are located on our Brayford Pool campus or a short walk away.
With more than 3,700 rooms across six residences, we offer a variety of options to suit different needs and budgets.
Contact the
If you have any questions about applying to study at the University of Lincoln through Clearing, our International Enquiries Team are here to help.
You can contact us via email, phone, WhatsApp, or by completing our online form.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry:
Select your country from the list below to find out more information regarding our academic and English language entrance requirements, international scholarships, and how to connect with our global representatives near you.
If you are unable to find your country and would like to find out more information, please contact our International Enquiries Team .
Afghanistan
Algeria
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Belgium
Botswana
Brazil
Brunei
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Chile
China
Colombia
Cyprus
Czech Republic
Denmark
Ecuador
Egypt
Estonia
Ethiopia
Finland
France
Gambia
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Hong Kong
Hungary
India
Indonesia
Iran
Iraq
Ireland
Italy
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Latvia
Lebanon
Liberia
Libya
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Malaysia
Malawi
Malta
Mexico
Morocco
Mozambique
Myanmar
Namibia
Nepal
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Qatar
Romania
Russia
Rwanda
Saudi Arabia
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Sweden
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
Turkey
UAE
Uganda
Ukraine
Uruguay
USA
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/internationalfeesandfunding:
Studying in the UK can be a life-changing experience.
To help you prepare, we've included an overview below of some of the important things you will need to consider, such as tuition fees, living costs, and other expenses.
You can also find out more about our wide range of scholarships, alongside advice and tips to help you create a budget, find a part-time job, and prepare for your journey to Lincoln.
Lincoln has been named the UK's most affordable student city in the NatWest Student Living Index 2025
Tuition fees at the University of Lincoln are charged for each year of your studies.
For the 2025/26 academic year, tuition fees for international students typically range between £16,600 - £20,100.
The amount of tuition fee will vary depending on the type of programme and study level you choose.
To help support your learning, there may be additional study related expenses that you will need to budget for, such as textbooks or field trips.
Please visit the individual course pages for further information.
To help you fund the cost of your studies, we offer a range of instalment options and payment methods.
We are proud to offer an extensive range of scholarships to help as many students as possible to benefit from studying in the UK.
Our international scholarships for undergraduate and postgraduate taught students range from £1,000 to 50 per cent of tuition fees.
We also offer a range of scholarships for those pursuing a research degree.
Creating a budget can be a great way to help you think about the cost of studying in the UK and your day-to-day living expenses.
Visit our 'Living in the UK' page to find out more.
Before travelling to the UK and beginning your studies you may need to obtain a visa.
The cost of obtaining a visa can vary depending on the type of visa you are applying for, the visa duration, and the application service you use.
You may also need to pay additional fees such as the immigration health surcharge as part of your visa application.
Having a part-time job alongside your studies can be a great way to earn extra money.
A part-time job can also help you to gain valuable work experience and to develop a range of essential skills.
Whilst a part-time job can be helpful, you should not rely on the income you make to help fund the cost of your studies whilst in the UK.
Visit our Careers and Employability website to find out more about finding a part time job and the help and support available.
Our tuition fee discounts are designed to help support international students enrolling at the University in September 2025.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/degreepreparation:
Our degree preparation programmes are designed to help students to develop the English language, academic study skills, and subject-specific knowledge required for degree-level study.
After successfully completing a degree preparation programme and obtaining the required pass mark, students will be able to progress onto a wide range of University of Lincoln undergraduate or postgraduate degree programmes.
Our degree preparation programmes can help you to develop the skills you will need for undergraduate or postgraduate level study.
Our programmes include English Language Preparation, International Year One, and Pre-Master's courses.
View Courses
Studying in a different country and a different language can be challenging, especially if the teaching and assessment style is different to that of your own country.
Our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills (PEASS) courses are designed to help you develop a wide range of essential skills in preparation of your studies.
Pre-sessional Courses
Find out about all the steps in your application journey.
Before starting your degree preparation programme at the University of Lincoln, it is important that you meet our English language and academic entry requirements.
Entry Requirements
Your journey to studying in the UK and becoming a University of Lincoln student starts with our online application form.
Learn about the process and the supports available.
Choosing where to live while studying at the University of Lincoln is a big decision.
With more than 4,200 rooms across seven residences, we offer a variety of options on or close by to our campus.
That's why we've brought together a range of information and links to help you get settled.
Our webinars, subject masterclasses, question and answer sessions, and student panel talks are a great way to discover what it is like to live and study at the University of Lincoln.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/informationforofferholders:
Congratulations on receiving an offer to study at the University of Lincoln and welcome to our global applicant community.
Our information for international offer holders page is designed to help you prepare for your exciting journey to the UK and the start of your studies here in Lincoln.
On this page, you can find a range of information and resources to help you understand your offer and what you may need to do next, whether that's selecting your accommodation, applying for a scholarship, or joining our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills programme.
You can also find out more information about paying your deposit and applying for your Student visa, alongside opportunities to join our exciting virtual events.
We can't wait to welcome you.
Explore our understanding your offer page to find out more about the different types of offers that can be made, how to reply to your offer, and more details about our entry requirements.
Your Offer
To help you plan your finances, our Funding your Studies page contains important information regarding the tuition fees you will be expected to pay, our wide range of international scholarships, and information and advice on living costs in the UK.
Funding Information
Our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills (PEASS) courses are designed to help you develop a wide range of essential skills before you begin your studies.
PEASS Courses
Applications for accommodation are now open for the September 2025 intake.
If you have accepted Lincoln as your firm choice you can now apply for your accommodation through our online booking portal.
Find out more about our upcoming events and sign up to attend here.
Join us on Wednesday 20 August at 6pm [GMT] to learn more about how to prepare for your exciting journey to the UK in September.
Book Now
Join us on Thursday 4 September at 1pm [GMT] to hear from our current students as they share their top tips and advice on the important things you need to know before arriving in Lincoln.
As an international student, you may be required to obtain a visa prior to travelling to the UK and enrolling at the University of Lincoln.
Before applying for your visa, you will need to pay a deposit to the University and complete the Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) request process.
CAS and Visa Guidance
From advice and tips on what to pack in your suitcase to settling into campus and what to do when you arrive, our pre-departure webpages are packed full of useful information to help you prepare for your journey to the UK and University of Lincoln.
Preparing for Lincoln

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/accommodation:
Where you live whilst at university can play a big part in your overall student experience.
That’s why it is really important you arrange suitable accommodation before you travel to the UK and begin your studies.
All of our accommodation at the University of Lincoln is either on campus or nearby.
So whether you are heading to a lecture, needing to use the library, or catching up with friends in the city centre, it’s all within walking distance.
No matter which residence you choose, you’ll have your own bedroom which includes furniture such as a bed, desk, wardrobe and storage.
The majority of our accommodation is en suite too, except for select rooms in Lincoln Courts.
We offer a range of affordable accommodation options, a deposit or guarantor is not required and there is the option to pay through instalments
Ranked top 5 in the Halls and Student Accommodation category at the WhatUni Student Choice Awards 2025
To help you settle into your new home you can access support from our Residence Life Team while living with us
With five residences to choose from, we offer a variety of options to suit different needs and budgets.
Staying in university managed accommodation includes a range of benefits such as 24/7 security, on-site maintenance, contents insurance, and more.
A guarantor and deposit is not required and there are different payment options available to help you manage your budget.
Applying for accommodation at Lincoln is simple.
Once you have formally accepted your offer of a place at the University you'll be able to make your accommodation application using our online system.
Every effort will be made to ensure that you are allocated accommodation from your preferred options, depending on demand.
University managed accommodation is very popular and we encourage you to apply as early as possible.
Further information on how to apply can be found in the How to Apply page.
To ease your transition to university and help you settle into your new home, our friendly Residence Life Team are here to offer help when it's needed to those living in university managed accommodation.
They also arrange a variety of social activities that you can get involved in.
Explore our 360° tours to get a feel of where all our accommodation is located in relation to campus and city centre sights.
Explore the different types of University managed accommodation and choose the right option for you.
Privately Rented and Family
If you are considering living in privately rented accommodation or bringing your family with you, you will need to think carefully about how you will travel to the university on a regular basis.
We strongly encourage you to visit our Privately Rented Accommodation page for further information on some of the important things that you will need to consider.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/virtualevents/internationalondemandcontent:
Whether you're applying for your CAS and Student visa or want advice on finding the right accommodation for you, our on demand webinars are the perfect place for you to get the important information you need to help you prepare for your exciting journey to the University of Lincoln.
Studying in the UK can be a life changing opportunity that extends far beyond earning a degree.
As a student here there are opportunities to broaden your horizons, develop independence, and create lifelong friendships.
Join Becca and Ellie as they provide an overview of some of the reasons you should consider studying in the UK, different types of courses you can study, learning at a university here and so much more.
Before travelling to the UK and starting your studies, you may need to obtain a Student visa.
Watch our webinar to find out more information about the Student visa application process and how to prepare.
We know that where you live whilst at university can play a big part in your overall student experience.
During this webinar, you can find out more about the accommodation on offer at the University of Lincoln for students joining us in September 2025.
The University of Lincoln’s Global Leaders Scholarship is designed to recognise the achievements and potential of international students starting their studies with us in 2026, it is worth 50% of tuition fees for one year of study.
Join Becca and Ellie as they share detailed information about the scholarship and its eligibility criteria, to help you to prepare for making an application.
Studying in the UK can be very different from studying in the USA or Canada.
Join our International Officer for the Americas, Olivia, to find out more about the differences and benefits of living and studying in the UK.
Discover more about the costs associated with living and studying in Lincoln with our on demand webinars.
You can also find out more about the Graduate visa once you complete your studies and all the benefits of applying for one.
Studying in the UK is a big investment, and you’ll need to think about the costs involved.
To help support you, we discuss the cost of living as a student in Lincoln, budgeting, and working part-time during your studies in this webinar.
Following the successful completion of a degree in the UK, international students may have the opportunity to apply for a Graduate visa.
Watch this webinar to find out more information about the Graduate visa application process, and how to prepare before you apply.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/flexiblelearning/microcredentials:
Whether you are looking to upskill a team in your business, or you are an individual wanting to develop new skills and knowledge in a specialist area, a microcredential can be a great choice.
These certification-style courses are short-term, flexible, and accessible, and are designed to meet the needs of the modern workplace.
Each course focuses on a specific topic or skill, providing the opportunity to stay ahead of changing industry demands, develop expertise in a niche area, or explore new topics and fields of interest.
Students who successfully complete three microcredential programmes from the same subject category - strategy, marketing, leadership and management, or accounting and finance - may use this as Accreditation of Prior Learning against a module on our MBA Leadership programme.
For more information, please contact us .
Improve your current skillset or build new areas of expertise
Study around work and life commitments
Access to University learning platforms
Pay-per-module approach
Work from anywhere at any time with our online study options
Our programmes are delivered online, giving you the flexibility to study around other demands.
Microcredentials usually last 10-12 weeks for a 10-credit course, or 5-7 weeks for a 5-credit course.
During each programme, you should expect to undertake 7-10 hours of self-directed study, which could include independent research and working on assignments.
There are regular opportunities to join live webinars, which are a great chance for you to exchange thoughts and ideas with other learners, as well as receive guidance and feedback from subject tutors.
To help you get the most from your studies, our microcredentials are designed to work around your needs and schedules.
Where live webinars are used, they are recorded  for future reference.
You are also able to apply for extensions, management of assessment, mitigating circumstances, and resits.
Once you enrol, you will also have access to our full range of learning platforms, including our online library and Office 365.
For students studying a microcredential in the strategy, marketing, leadership and management, or accounting and finance categories may use three completed courses from the same category a s Accreditation of Prior Learning against a module on our MBA Leadership programme.
Strategy
Marketing
Accounting and Finance
Leadership and Management
Courses have a final assessment due date which you will be required to meet to complete the course.
Each microcredential will be assessed by a range of methods which can include written reports, reflections, action plans, presentations, and tests.
You should read the assessment information carefully for each course you undertake.
We aim to provide provisional feedback on assessments within 15 working days after submission.
Marks will be confirmed once they have been verified the Board of Examiners.
Applying to study a microcredential is simple, you just need to follow a few easy steps to begin your journey.
Explore our range of courses to find the right one.
Make sure to check when the course is expected to start, how much it costs, and how long it runs for.
To apply, simply follow the Apply Now button at the top of the page.
You will need to fill out some registration details and provide your previous study history.
For some courses my may need to enquire with us directly before making an application.
You can pay for your course when you apply.
Once you have submitted your application and paid, our friendly team will be in touch to discuss onboarding and provide you with the course handbook.
Our programmes have been designed with businesses in mind and there are lots of great reasons to empower teams or individual colleagues with new skills and knowledge through a microcredential.
Their focused nature means that you can target areas which align with your organisation's priorities and help you to realise measurable productivity and operational improvements.
The pay-per-module approach means you are not committing to expensive long-term training programmes, supporting business cash flow.
Empower staff with new skills and knowledge
Arrange CPD around business priorities and working hours
Pay-per-module approach supports business cashflow
Realise measurable productivity and operational improvements
If our portfolio of microcredential programmes does not cover your specific areas of interest, our team may be able to create a bespoke module to enhance certain skills or knowledge most relevant to your business and workforce.
You may be seeking an adaptation of an existing programme which is tailored to a specific sector, or simply require something totally different.
Chat to our team about your organisation’s skills gaps and we can help find a solution to suit your requirements.
Microcredentials are a short-term, flexible, and more accessible way to develop new skills or even gain experience of a degree programme before committing to a full programme.
They are focused and specialised, allowing learners to target the exact skills they need for their career goals, future plans, or personal interests.
Microcredentials can be beneficial for anyone who wants to improve their professional development, change their career path, or pursue lifelong learning.
They can help learners stay ahead of the changing demands of the workplace, showcase their expertise in a niche area, or explore new topics and fields of interest.
Some microcredentials may be used as prior learning onto one of our degree programmes, get in touch to find out more.
Yes, you can study more than one at a time, but you need to ensure you can study for 7-10 hours per week per microcredential.
Please be mindful of the study commitment and be sure you can accommodate this around other commitments.
Yes, once you have enrolled you will become a student at the University of Lincoln whilst this course is running.
You will have a University email address which you will use to log into all our learning platforms, including the online library.
You will have access to a student Office 365 account so that you can use the software you need to complete the course and we will communicate to you via your University email account.
Students are subject to all relevant University policies including extensions, management of assessment, mitigating circumstances, and resits.
However, microcredential students are not entitled to 'interrupt' their course.
Once you start the course, you must complete it.
Students are only eligible for refunds on microcredential programmes if they withdraw within 14 days of having completed the application/enrolment process.
Microcredentials are made to work with your schedule and lifestyle.
Your studies may include a live webinar.
however, if you are unable to attend the live broadcast, the activities will be recorded and available for viewing at a later time.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/healthandwellbeinghub:
The Health and Wellbeing Hub offers post registration programmes and continuing professional development for qualified practitioners working across the health and social care sector.
We have expertise in a broad range of health and wellbeing areas with a portfolio developed over many years.
We work closely with employers from a range of public, private and third sector organisations to provide targeted, academic and practice-based courses.
The Health and Wellbeing Hub has a strong track record of delivering courses to meet the continuing professional development requirements of a variety of sectors.
We offer a range of short courses and degree programmes designed to enhance key skills, learning, and knowledge, with the aim to help develop professional careers after initial qualification and beyond.
We work across the College of Health and Science, to deliver programmes relevant to current practice, taking into account the important work-life-study balance that professional students need to thrive.
We offer a range of services at different levels; these include the opportunity to top-up existing qualifications to degree level, embark on an MSc programme or attain credits from individual modules, which can be used toward a BSc or MSc in the future.
Students can undertake study alongside their existing work commitments and use their employment experience to place theories into context.
All modules and short courses are accessible to self-funding and sponsored students, and subject to eligibility.
All of our healthcare courses are approved by professional bodies such as the Health and Care Professions Council and the Nursing and Midwifery Council.
Using the expertise within the Health and Wellbeing Hub we can design and deliver group training specific to your needs.
We have an established record of working with health and social care organisations and we utilise flexibility in content and duration to meet the needs of your organisation and respond to the diverse needs of different staff groups and individuals.
We offer a range of delivery of our training from face to face, blended learning or online distance learning which enables your staff to fit studies around their existing work commitments.
The University of Lincoln offer a wide range of taught modules which can be accessed throughout the year.
These range from 15 credit single modules, through 60 and 120 credit post graduate certificates and diplomas up to full Master's degrees.
Study can be undertaken part time or full time and may be delivered fully on site, blended on site and distance learning or fully distance learning.
Our CPD portfolio is designed for health, allied health and social care professionals who are looking to increase or update their knowledge and skills in specific areas or develop broader skill sets in new areas.
As well as research training the Health and Wellbeing Hub can support organisations in undertaking projects, such as research and service evaluations or bidding for research funds.
The University of Lincoln are also able to offer a range of consultancy services by our academics and research staff around health and wellbeing, including policy reviews, delivering advice, expert witness services, keynote speakers, curriculum design, workshop facilitation or one-off training events.
Consultancy may range from small, one-off projects to larger/ongoing initiatives.
Together Group
The University of Lincoln provides opportunities for patients, service users and carers to become involved in education and research.
Help us equip our students with the skills, knowledge, lived experience and confidence to improve the quality of care for all.
The annual Prescribing Conference is hosted in the esteemed Isaac Newton Building, where our state-of-the-art lecture theatre and vibrant atrium will serve as the perfect backdrop for a day of learning, networking, and collaboration.
cpd@lincoln.ac.uk
+44 (0)1533 837725

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/servicesforbusiness/whoweworkwith/defenceandsecurity:
The defence and security industr ies are ever-evolving to adapt, accelerate, and advance the UK's progress in technology, logistics, and education.
As an anchor institution to a region possessing a rich military heritage, the University of Lincoln seeks to engage further with our defence and security community by sharing knowledge, developing skills, and encouraging innovation through collaborative research .
W e intend to build on our existing sector-wide partnerships to continue our trajectory in providing evidence-based, sustainable, and forward-thinking solutions for our partners engaged in all forms of defence and security activity.
Lincoln International Business School offers a suite of work-based distance learning programmes for full-time serving, reservist, and veteran members of the armed forces seeking to gain a new qualification and improve their management skills.
Management Courses
The military MSc programme offered by our School of Engineering and Physical Sciences provides an opportunity for serving and retired military personnel to gain postgraduate awards based, in part, on the learning gained during their service.
ISR Programmes
The University of Lincoln is part of the Capita-led consortium known collectively as 'Team Fisher', providing transformational training and education to the Royal Navy as part of Project Selborne.
About Project Selborne
Academic colleagues across the University are engaged in research projects to solve real-world challenges facing our defence and security sectors.
Our Defence and Security Research Network (DSRN) engages with the armed forces and industry partners to find solutions together.
Get in touch to learn more about our academic expertise.
The Greater Lincolnshire Regional Defence & Secuity Cluster (GL RDSC) is one of three formally recognised Clusters in the UK.
It began as a network and industry-led forum founded by the Greater Lincolnshire LEP, its Defence and Security Advisory Board, and the University of Lincoln.
Bringing together national and international defence organisations, manufacturing, research, development and innovation expertise, the Cluster provides a single forum to overcome sector challenges and identify business opportunities in Greater Lincolnshire and Rutland, while identifying opportunities for funding and innovation-led initiatives.
Visit the GL RDSC website
Greater Lincolnshire is now recognised by the Government as a Regional Defence and Security Cluster, after receiving formal approval.
Full Article
Female police officers and staff will learn about the significant impact breast health and bra choices can have on performance and wellbeing as part of a new trial.
Julian Free CBE, Deputy Vice Chancellor of the University of Lincoln talks to Tony Burnell, CEO at Metis Aerospace in about the ever-expanding range of opportunities for businesses.
Listen Online
Cracking the DASA Code: Mastering the Art of the Effective Proposal by Alexander Giles, Chief Commercial Officer of Iceni Labs, provides helpful tips on Defence and Security Accelerator funding.
LinkedIn Article
As well as supporting our nation’s armed forces and the MoD, the University works closely with supply chain organisations such as SRC UK, BAE Systems, and Leonardo to deliver collaborative projects, research, and educational partnerships.
Our understanding and experience of the sector’s demands and challenges from supplier to end user positions us strongly to help our partners innovate, upskill, and increase productivity.
Funded by the Heritage Lottery Fund, we are proud co-developers of The International Bomber Command Centre's Digital Archive, which collects the personal stories of those caught in the bombing during World War 2, both military and civilian, on both sides of the conflict.
Proudly supporting those who serve, we have been awarded the Armed Forces Covenant Employer Recognition Scheme Gold Award, being one of the first universities to receive this accolade.
We continue to uphold our pledge to support members of the armed forces community, including our students, staff, and wider networks.
Our Lincoln Conservation team within the University's College of Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities possess extensive expertise in specialist restoration and conservation.
Their work has extended across areas of the military and with an increased focus on 3D scanning, they have supported our partners increasingly through a digital lens.
If you’d like to find out more about any of the projects or specialisms listed on this page, please get in touch for an initial chat and our team will connect you to the appropriate department.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/lbs/distancelearning:
For experienced professionals who want to upgrade their operational skills and gain a degree level qualification, our online 'top-up' degree programmes are designed to interface with your role, enhance work-based projects and can be completed part-time from anywhere in the world within 18-24 months.
The University of Lincoln has been providing work-based distance learning courses for a number of years and we have an experienced team that can support you from the point of application to the completion of your degree.
With a suite of degree programmes available for working professionals across several industry specialisms, we aim to provide a highly flexible approach to enable our distance learners to balance part-time degree-level study around work and family life.
At the core of our distance learning approach is recognition of the value of years of professional experience.
Through our 'top-up' degrees, industry professionals can translate relevant work-based experience into credits equivalent to the first two years of an undergraduate degree.
Our distance learning courses are underpinned by academic expertise of specialists from our Lincoln International Business School and accredited by recognised UK industry bodies such as the Chartered Management Institute (CMI).
Explore our range of work-based distance learning programmes and decide which specialism is right for you and your ambitions.
Learn more about Lincoln's approach to distance learning, designed to help students balance part-time study around work and other commitments.
Several of our distance learning courses are accredited by recognised industry bodies, reflecting their industry-focussed design.
Check the admissions process, entry requirements, and potential start dates for our work-based distance learning 'top-up' degree courses.
Explore the support networks in place to help distance learning students at the University of Lincoln realise their goals.
Our Lincoln International Business School has a long and proud track record of delivering work-based distance learning.
Meet the team behind our provision.
Lincoln International Business School aims to provide a supported and sustainable platform for leadership and management to organisations within the Greater Lincolnshire area and beyond.
Lincoln International Business School University of Lincoln Brayford Pool Campus Lincoln LN5 7AT
libs@lincoln.ac.uk
01522 835509

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/subjects/accountancyfinanceandeconomics:
Accountancy, Finance, and Economics at Lincoln International Business School is home to a team of academics who are experts in their field.
We offer a wide range of undergraduate and postgraduate programmes that can help to prepare students for successful careers in and around these disciplines.
Our programmes can provide students with a solid foundation in the fundamentals of accounting, finance, and economics, such as financial accounting, auditing, taxation, corporate finance, investment analysis, and economic theory.
A number of our programmes are accredited by leading organisations, including the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) , the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) , the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW) and the Association of International Accountants (AIA).
Access to industry standard Bloomberg Terminal
Opportunity for hands-on experience through professional practice
Options to study abroad at partner institutions
Accounting at Lincoln is ranked in the top 20 in the UK for academic support in the National Student Survey 2024
Our full-time undergraduate students may have the opportunity to take a year-long professional practice placement after the second year.
A placement enables you to gain valuable experience and apply your knowledge in a real business setting, preparing you for your future career.
Accountancy, Finance, and Economics graduates from the University of Lincoln have gone on to work for major organisations, including AON, BNP Paribas, Boots, British Sugar, Duncan and Toplis.
Grant Thornton, HM Treasury, HM Revenue and Customs, Invesco, Jimmy Choo, JP Morgan, National Audit Office, PwC, Shell, Siemens, Streets, Throgmorton, and Xerox.
Many of our full-time undergraduate students will have the opportunity to study abroad at a partner institution, with the potential for further opportunities to work or volunteer whilst away.
This opportunity allows our students to think about their course in an international context, as well as experience new cultures.
Lincoln International Business School offers you the opportunity to use Bloomberg, giving access to real-time financial market data and industry-standard software.
The Bloomberg Terminal is an investing tool which provides the latest market news, historical data, and a secure international network for communication.
The facility serves as a practical resource for you to reinforce theories learned in lectures and gain familiarity with tools used by financial services professionals.
You can also put your investing skills to the test with the Lincoln Student Managed Investment Fund (LSMIF).
LSMIF is a fully functional, real-life investment fund managed by students with the support and guidance of our expect academics, enabling valuable, hands-on experience and developing industry-relevant skills.
Accountancy, Finance, and Economics
Explore Accountancy, Finance, and Economics theses, journal articles, book chapters, and papers from our academics, many of whom are working across our research institutes, centres, and groups.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/subjects/education:
Education professionals make a difference to the lives of children and young people, inspiring them to learn and developing their knowledge and skills to prepare them for their future.
The study of education provides an insight into how children and young people learn and the ways in which this is shaped and delivered.
The subject looks at learning and teaching through four key areas: philosophy, sociology, history, and psychology.
Our full-time undergraduate students may have the opportunity to study abroad at a partner institution, with the potential for further work or volunteering while away.
This gives our students the chance to think about their course in an international context, as well as experience new ideas and cultures.
Some of our courses aim to incorporate research-based opportunities, and as a result, you'll be encouraged to undertake small-scale research projects in an area of education such as learning or teaching approaches, comparisons of global education systems, studies of curricula, or special educational needs.
Our course have been designed to provide you with a strong base for further study and beyond.
The course has been fantastic in allowing me to develop a strong level of knowledge in a range of areas and gain key skills that are vital to my future study and employment.
Find out what made our students choose education at Lincoln and what they're loving about their course.
Research
Lincolnshire Learning Lab is helping to improve the learning of all children and the working environments for teachers within Lincolnshire by bringing academic rigour and evidence-based research into the classroom by engaging the three key stakeholders – teachers, academics, and anyone involved or interested in education.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/subjects/englishandcreativewriting:
Studying English and Creative Writing at Lincoln is an opportunity to explore and analyse some of the greatest works of literature ever produced.
You will be encouraged to produce your own exciting work and build a portfolio of writing while receiving guidance from published authors.
Lincoln is a fantastic place to study the subject, and is home to the Tennyson Archives, a collection of work and mementos from Alfred, Lord Tennyson.
The Lincoln Cathedral library also houses a copy of The Canterbury Tales alongside a number of medieval manuscripts.
Hear from guest speakers and published authors
Opportunities to build a portfolio of creative work
Creative Writing at Lincoln is ranked 2nd overall in the UK in the Guardian University Guide 2025
Broaden your horizons with opportunities to study abroad
Many of our courses offer the opportunity to study abroad for a semester at one of our partner institutions.
This is a great way to experience new cultures and may also improve your employment prospects.
Our Global Opportunities Team is on hand to provide support and guidance to students who chose this option.
The English course at Lincoln stood out to me among the other universities as it didn't just do the typical modules such as Shakespeare.
Shazeda Ahmed
BA (Hons) English
Employability is a key part of our courses.
We collaborate with the Careers and Employability Team to offer talks from previous graduates about their exciting careers, as well as more specialised talks on career options such as freelancing.
Our graduates have gone on to work in a range of areas, including publishing, journalism, advertising, public relations, marketing, the civil service, and communications.
Our research covers a wide range of areas, from medieval literature to science fiction.
However, our greatest strengths are in 19th Century and 21st Century literature, where we have two dedicated research groups exploring these areas.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/subjects/historyclassicalstudiesandconservation:
With its magnificent cathedral, a medieval castle, an original of the 1215 Magna Carta, and the International Bomber Command Centre, Lincoln is an inspiring place in which to study history and heritage.
At the University of Lincoln, we offer a range of courses spanning history, classical studies, and conservation.
These programmes ask questions of the past, revealing knowledge that is relevant to how we think about ourselves and our place within society today.
History at Lincoln is ranked in the top 20 in the UK for student satisfaction in the Complete University Guide 2025 (out of 90 ranking institutions)
Classics at Lincoln is ranked 2nd in the UK for student satisfaction in the Complete University Guide 2025 (out of 23 ranking institutions)
Conduct research alongside our expert academic team
Study in the heart of a historic city with plenty of stories to uncover
Professor Carenza Lewis
Carenza has been a presenter on the popular Time Team TV series and has been spearheading a range of innovative research projects that explore the public benefits of participation in heritage.
You can make use of the excellent facilities and resources available on campus, including the University’s Great Central Warehouse Library.
There are also impressive resources around the city, including the Tennyson Research Centre based at the Lincolnshire Archives, the Lincoln Museum, and the International Bomber Command Centre archives.
There is also the outstanding collection of medieval manuscripts and rare books housed at Lincoln Cathedral’s Wren Library – a centre for philosophical study since the time of the eminent 13th Century theologian, Bishop Robert Grosseteste.
Our Conservation students can gain hands-on experience in our high-specification laboratories working on a range of historic materials provided by museums, historic houses, and private collections.
The University is home to Lincoln Conservation, a company that combines research, teaching, and commercial expertise.
It specialises in architectural paint research and the digital and physical conservation of historic objects, decorative schemes, and buildings.
The expertise of our consultants has helped to inform the restoration of the Midland Grand Hotel (now known as the St Pancras Renaissance Hotel), HMS Victory, and Southwell Minster.
Medieval Studies Research Group
The Medieval Studies Research Group brings together academics, archivists, librarians, postgraduate students, and postdoctoral researchers with interdisciplinary interests both in the medieval period itself and in the later interpretation and representation of the medieval past.
Join two of our students as they explore some of the many historic sites that Lincoln has to offer.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/subjects/journalismandcommunications:
Journalists and Communications professionals perform a crucial role in society, conveying the views of all demographics and providing a voice for the voiceless.
The opportunity to shape our understanding of the world through words, images, and stories is one of the most important skills for the 21st Century.
At Lincoln, our  programmes are designed for aspiring communicators to make their mark, offering a multimedia grounding with opportunities to specialise in specific media and genres.
Teaching led by industry experienced journalists
Develop skills through extracurricular opportunities
Industry-standard facilities designed to emulate real-world environments
Journalism at Lincoln is ranked in the top 10 in the UK for academic support in the National Student Survey 2024
The University provides students with many extracurricular opportunities develop their professional skills.
These currently include: New Media Lincs, a creative business that offers paid work experience and support in developing CVs, showreels, portfolios, and contacts in preparation for industry; our digital audio platform; the web TV news service LSJNews, and our students' own newspaper, The Linc .
Chris Gray, BA (Hons) Journalism
Chris spent his childhood commentating on computer games in his room and used his time at Lincoln to pursue his passion for sports journalism by starting a show on the University's on-campus community radio station.
Since graduating, he has gone from strength to strength, and is now working as a senior journalist at BBC News.
Our journalism research is investigating exciting areas such as peace and conflict journalism, diaspora journalism in Britain, and journalists' professional roles and performance.
You can find out more on our journalism research pages.
Our facilities give you the opportunity to build the skills you need for a career in industry.
Two TV studios, one with an audience capacity of 135 and an area of over 2,500 sq ft.
Features include, high definition 1080i studio cameras, extensive studio lighting, sound desk, autocue and audio and video software connectivity.
The Media and Broadcast Production Centre offers non-linear digital post-production for HD Video Editing.
There are 18 HD video editing suites, each with 8TB storage and 32GB RAM and featuring Avid Media Composer V8, Adobe Premiere CC, DaVinci Resolve and a range of other software.
We offer full HD shooting and editing, using Panasonic AVcHD, Canon C100 and Sony FS100 cameras.
Extensive media kit for student loan including cameras, lights, grip and audio recording equipment.
Dynamic spaces for producing live programmes, pre-recorded content and radio drama.
The drama studio is based around the industry specification 12 channel Audient ASP8024 mixing desk and Apollo 16 audio interface.
Students are able to choose between using professional standard Pro-Tools or Adobe Audition software to produce audio for broadcast.
Two main studios for live radio production are equipped with Sonifex desks and fitted with the industry standard Myriad playout system.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/subjects/lawandcriminology:
The rule of law is the cornerstone of any just and fair society, and to be administered correctly it requires skilled and knowledgeable legal professionals.
Our law courses at Lincoln provide our students with the skills that they need to practice in a legal career.
The closely related field of criminology uses theory to explore some of the most contentious issues in contemporary society, working to understand the causes of crime and the way in which criminal justice agencies respond to offenders.
Conduct research alongside our expert academic teams
Gain professional practice through the Lincoln Law Clinic
Explore principles of modern legal practice in our moot court
Benefit from opportunities to study abroad at our partner institutions
At Lincoln, we place a strong emphasis on helping you gain confidence in professional practice.
We encourage our Law students to develop legal skills by entering competitions in mooting and negotiation.
Our Moot Court allows you to experience key themes of modern legal practice across a variety of courtroom roles.
You can also sharpen your skills by getting involved in the Lincoln Law Clinic as part of your studies.
The clinic provides pro-bono legal advice to staff and students at the University and enables you to apply your knowledge to real cases.
You can also benefit from a mentoring scheme, offering second-year undergraduate law students the chance to be mentored by local professionals, as well as a wide range of careers events which introduce students to opportunities both within and outside the legal sector.
Our mock-court environment gives our law students the opportunity to explore key principles of modern legal practice in a variety of courtroom roles to strengthen their studies and practice their mooting skills.
It features a judge's bench, witness stand, clerk's desk, and prosecution and defence solicitor benches to simulate the environment of a working court room.
Law and Criminology
Visit our research repository to explore law and criminology theses, journal articles, book chapters, and papers from our academics, many of whom are working across our research institutes, centres, and groups.
We are committed to giving students the opportunity to meaningfully contribute to the knowledge in their chosen field through their own research.
Throughout the course students may have the opportunity to contribute to ongoing research projects or even conduct their own research.
Recent publications by Lincoln students include research by Ben Pelling on 'mid level' recreational drugs supply and by Mikey Hirst on the advertising for semaglutide and testosterone clinics on social media .
The University of Lincoln is a fantastic place to study and offers a great deal of support.
The facilities are modern and it is ideal for students who want to live in a city with plenty of activities to get involved in.
Samik Bhadra
LLB (Hons) Law Graduate

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/subjects/management:
Management at Lincoln offers a wide range of programmes that can prepare students for success in the global business world.
Our teaching staff are highly experienced and have a wealth of knowledge and expertise in their respective fields.
We pride ourselves on providing students with an excellent learning experience combining knowledge with real-world examples and practical, hands-on opportunities.
A number of our programmes feature professional accreditations by organisations including the Chartered Management Institute, the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development, and the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport.
A wide range of accredited courses across the subject area
Opportunities for placements and study abroad
Research-informed teaching
Subject area ranked in the top 20 overall in the UK in the Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2023
Whether it's learning from subject experts, being able to undertake placements at well-known companies, or having the chance to study abroad, our students have opportunities across their studies to build employability skills and create networks for their future.
University of Lincoln management graduates have gone on to work for some of the best-known brands in the world including Sky, IBM, Amazon, Barclays, BNY Mellon, Emirates, Enterprise, Honda, and Jaguar Land Rover.
Many of our undergraduate courses offer the opportunity to study abroad at one of our partner institutions, giving you the experience of learning in another country and culture.
I have always wanted to become a business owner.
Completing my degree confirmed this aspiration.
I obtained the relevant knowledge, skills, and confidence to pursue and achieve opening a successful swim school.
Nicole Martin
BA (Hons) Business Management
Our vibrant research groups, such as the Responsible Management Research Group , are bringing together respected experts and shaping the field of management and business through world-leading research.
As part of University's purpose is to transform lives and communities, much of our research output is also related to the United Nation's Sustainable Development Goals which are aimed at tackling some of the world's most pressing problems.
Academic Profile
Ted has been leading businesses since he was 19 and is currently the Lincoln UNESCO Chair on Responsible Foresight for Sustainable Development.
As well as his work as UNESCO Chair, Ted is currently supervising doctoral studies that relate to responsible futures in organisational and social contexts.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/subjects/marketingandtourism:
Marketing, Events, and Tourism offers a range of specialist subject areas from marketing and advertising to tourism, events, and sports business management.
With an experienced team of academics, research, and industry professionals, we are expertly placed to deliver contemporary knowledge underpinned by real-world examples giving students the knowledge and skills needed to thrive in their chosen careers.
Marketing at Lincoln ranked 2nd for student satisfaction in the Complete University Guide 2025
Marketing at Lincoln is ranked in the top 10 in the UK for teaching in the National Student Survey 2024
Tourism, Transport and Travel is ranked in top 10 in the UK for teaching in the National Student Survey 2024
Marketing, Events, and Tourism graduates from the University of Lincoln have gone on to work for major organisations, including Asos, BAE Systems, Bentley, Boots, Bosch, Cummins, Disney, Dunlop, England Golf, Goodyear, GSK, HP, IBM, Leicester Tigers, L'Or é al, Marks and Spencer, Microsoft, Panasonic, PwC, Ricoh, Siemens, Sky, Urban Outfitters, Vauxhall, Volkswagen, and Warner Bros.
Marketing, Events, and Tourism
Explore Marketing, Events, and Tourism theses, journal articles, book chapters, and papers from our academics, many of whom are working across our research institutes, centres, and groups.
Programme-specific accreditations give successful graduates the opportunity to gain industry-recognised status alongside their degree.
I never thought that I would have my own business.
Looking back, now that I am a business owner, my degree gave me a solid foundation in advertising and marketing.
Amy Wallis
BA (Hons) Advertising and Marketing Graduate

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/subjects/philosophy:
Philosophers search for knowledge and truth, exploring the fundamental nature of reality and some of the most important questions about the world around us such as what is the self?
What is a just society?
Is free will an illusion?
And, does God exist?
At Lincoln, you can study original texts from philosophers of both the past and present to help you learn to develop and defend your own arguments, which can help  you gain skills that are transferable and equip you for a range of career paths.
Philosophy at Lincoln is ranked 5th overall in the UK in the Guardian University Guide 2024 (out of 43 ranking institutions)
Exciting events to get involved in, including the annual philosophy lecture
Privileged access to the library at Lincoln Cathedral
Explore the fundamental nature of reality and some of the most important questions about the world around us
Our programmes explore the ideas of key figures in the history of philosophy, including Plato, Descartes, Nietzsche, Sartre, and Wittgenstein.
You can study original texts from philosophers of both the past and present to help you learn to develop and defend your own arguments, which can help you gain skills that are transferable and equip you for a range of career paths.
During our programmes, you can explore ethics, metaphysics, philosophy of mind, epistemology, logic, philosophy of religion, feminist philosophy, Indian philosophy, philosophy of love and sex, legal and political philosophy, and  philosophy of science.
Philosophy
Explore philosophy theses, journal articles, book chapters, and papers from our academics, many of whom are working across our research institutes, centres, and groups.
Lincoln is home to the Lincoln Philosophy Salon, which holds monthly talks in a local pub from world-leading professional philosophers.
This is a thriving organisation with a membership of around 600 people, which provides a great opportunity for students to interact socially with staff and to discuss cutting-edge ideas with some of the most important living philosophers working today.
In addition, the Undergraduate Philosophy Society, which is run by students, organises talks and social events for students interested in Philosophy.
We also hold an annual philosophy lecture, bringing a philosopher of international standing to Lincoln to give a talk on a topic of their choosing.
Our students may have the opportunity to spend a term studying at one of the University’s partner institutions in North America or Europe, providing the chance to experience studying in another country and experiencing a different culture.
There is such an amazing sense of community within the Philosophy department at Lincoln.
The academics are so helpful and friendly, and emphasise the importance of working collaboratively.
The additional events outside of teaching were a bonus, helping me to build strong relationships with everybody that I studied with.
Luke Spindler
BA (Hons) Philosophy graduate

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/subjects/politicsandinternationalrelations:
From US and Middle Eastern politics to the big political issues of the day in Britain, look beyond the headlines and explore concepts such as power, democracy, and justice.
At Lincoln, you can develop an in-depth understanding of the impact of political, economic, and cultural forces and how states seek to balance these dynamics in order to maintain peace and trade in a complex and globalised world, where pockets of tension can rapidly escalate beyond borders.
Hear from a range of expert guest speakers
Undertake study trips abroad
Many of our full-time students will have the opportunity to study abroad at a partner institution, with the potential for further opportunities to work or volunteer whilst away.
This amazing opportunity allows our students to think about their course in an international context, as well as experience new cultures.
Undergraduate students may have the opportunity to learn from current parliamentarians and gain invaluable insight into their careers.
Teaching is delivered by active researchers who are contributing to knowledge across the field of politics and international relations.
A number of our modules include weekly screenings of documentaries and movies designed to examine the discussion of politics in the media and popular culture.
Our students can also benefit from the experience of our visiting professors, including Baroness Gillian Merron and former Principal Private Secretary to the Chief Whip, Sir Roy Stone CBE.
The course I studied was extremely varied and allowed me to have a choice about what I studied and choose modules from different disciplines.
This ensured that I had a wide knowledge base and could tailor this knowledge to my own loved experience.
Frances Heap
BA (Hons) Politics
Our students may have the opportunity to participate in a field trip to the UK Parliament, Scottish Parliament, or Welsh Assembly.
To help contextualise your learning outside of the country, we also run optional field trips to key international organisations and national and international political institutions, including New York, Washington, D.C, Brussels, Ypres, and The Hague.
Lincoln Parliamentary Research Centre (ParliLinc) aims to establish Lincoln as a recognised centre of excellence for research and teaching in parliamentary and legislative studies.
It's five broad aims are designed to enhance research, facilitate impact, and promote engagement with parliaments and legislatures.
Academics across our School of Social and Political Sciences are undertaking world-leading research in their field.
Covering a wide array of areas, from abortion rights to geopolitics, their work is contributing to and shaping conversations about the pressing issues facing society today.
Below are some of the publications produced by members of our teaching staff.
Aideen explores the lived experiences of reproductive rights activists living under, and mobilising against, Ireland's constitutional abortion ban, exposing the influence of the 8th amendment on Irish women.
As an expert on Russia, Edwin provides an insightful overview of the country, covering Russia's history, geography, society, politics, economy, and culture.
Mike examines the era of Senate Bill 1070, or the “show-me-your-papers” law, in Arizona.
He provides a new perspective on why policy makers adopt hard-line views on immigration and how this trend can be turned back.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/subjects/sociologyandsocialpolicy:
Sociology addresses the most pressing issues of our times.
It provides a framework for the study of human behaviour, examining how societies are organised, how social identities are constructed, and the issues facing some of the world's most marginalised people.
At Lincoln, our undergraduate programmes span the breadth of Sociology and Social Policy, and teaching is underpinned by the research expertise of our academic staff.
Our postgraduate programmes focus on specialist areas including crime and deviance, culture and inequality, gender and sexuality, political sociology, sociology of work, and youth subcultures.
Conduct research projects alongside our expert academic team
Work placement opportunities with charities and civil society organisations
Options to study abroad for a year at partner institutions
3rd in the UK for the ratio of four-star (world-leading) outputs in the Social Work and Social Policy Unit of Assessment in REF 2021
I fell in love with the city of Lincoln when I attended an open day.
After visiting several different universities across the UK, I thought Lincoln's facilities were excellent, the course content was right for me, the city was not too small nor too big, and the staff and students were very welcoming.
Alicia Longbottom
BA (Hons) Sociology
Many of our sociology and social policy students have the option to undertake work placements, providing experience of a professional policy environment and a chance to observe how policy is set by central government and executed by local authorities.
Full-time undergraduate students may also have the option of a year-long professional practice placement after the second year, providing real-world professional experience.
We're proud of our wide-ranging international connections and the unique opportunities these offer to our students.
The University’s partner institutions across the world allow students to study abroad, giving them the chance to experience their subject from a different perspective and explore different societies and cultures.
Meet the Expert
Professor Tarrant's interest in fatherhood began during her undergraduate study and has endured across the past 20 years.
Anna's achievements include launching and directing the UKRI funded Future Leaders Fellowship study, Following Young Fathers Further.
We have a selection of research groups which bring together academics with a variety of interests and specialisms.
Academics, practitioners, and those with lived experience are addressing the social issues that impact the lives of families.
Collaborating to develop new insights into the dynamics and challenges of migration and citizenship.
An interdisciplinary community of academic staff and students working on different aspects of populism, authoritarianism, and nationalism.
The group maintains a comprehensive approach to the study of violence to ensure recognition of its interpersonal, symbolic, and structural nature.
Find out more about our key research strengths and the innovative and groundbreaking studies that are taking place at the University of Lincoln.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/subjects/architectureandthebuiltenvironment:
At Lincoln, we aim to equip our students with the knowledge and skills needed to operate effectively within a globalised, innovation-driven economy.
Course content is informed by current trends and developments in the built environment sector, and utilises industry-standard equipment and technologies.
Taking an integrated approach that brings together architecture, technology, and design, we aim to address today’s growing need to design, build, and utilise spaces socially, economically, and sustainably.
Develop key industry skills in our excellent facilities
Subject ranked 2nd in the UK for graduate prospects in the Complete University Guide 2025 (out of 50 ranking institutions).
Learn from industry professionals and active researchers
BArch programme validated by the Royal Institute of British Architects
Our Arts Foundation Year is designed as a pathway to undergraduate study for those who are not sure which subject to study at degree level, may have had a break in education, or perhaps do not have the standard entry requirements for a degree.
Our links with local design practices and key organisations in the construction industry provide opportunities for our undergraduate students to work on live briefs and benefit from work experience.
We aim to develop the highest professional standards and to nurture confident graduates who will make a positive difference in the world.
To help our graduates build these skills, architecture at Lincoln is part of the well-established RIBA student mentoring scheme.
Third-year BArch Architecture students are paired with architects in the Midlands region and can gain experience over a series of days, with opportunities for site visits to observe how architects work.
This course is more than just seeing what exists already within the discipline and duplicating it - it's about taking that as inspiration and creating your own contribution to the world of interior architecture.
Ben Young
BA (Hons) Interior Architecture and Design
Our BA (Hons) Architecture programme is also delivered in Hong Kong in partnership with the School for Higher and Professional Education (SHAPE).
Academics in the Sustainable Built Environments Research Group are striving to enhance the quality of life in environments, buildings, cities, and landscapes, by providing informed, innovative, and practical solutions for the benefit of nations and the natural world.
At Lincoln, we offer a range of specialist facilities to help students develop their creative and practical skills in preparation for their future careers.
Our Construction Science Laboratory features dedicated high-end PCs with CAD and BIM software and specialist building simulation programmes.
Students can also access industry standard land surveying, environmental monitoring, and thermal imaging equipment.
Students can benefit from a dedicated CAD Lab of high-end PCs equipped with CAD software such as the industry standard Autodesk Revit Building Information Modelling (BIM) Software.
Students have their own bespoke studio space on the fourth floor of the Nicola De Le Haye Building as well as dedicated third floor workspace with room for laptops, desktops and drawing boards.
Students also have access to the Digital Crit Room and Concept Suite for collaborative working and ideas generation.
Students can use an array of machinery and hand tools for the cutting, shaping and general fabrication of woods and metals.
Laser cutting machines enable work with materials from fine papers and card through to soft and hard woods, veneers, acrylic plastic, leather, fabrics, MDF, plywood and stencil plastics.
The rapid prototyping area is equipped with manufacturing 3D printers which are used to create 3D physical models.
A range of specialist and large format printers are housed in the Peter de Wint Building.
Students can print their work on a range of specialist papers up to A0 size.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/subjects/artanddesign:
Art and design at Lincoln is home to a community of creatives and innovators.
Our courses cover a diverse range of subjects and are led by expert academics who are experienced practitioners and industry professionals.
Each of our courses aims to prepare students for rewarding careers in areas such as marketing, advertising, publishing, graphic design, curating, and freelancing.
Industry standard facilities allowing you to practise and develop new skills
Expert, industry experienced academics from a range of disciplines
Subject ranked in the top 20 overall in the UK in the Complete University Guide 2025 (out of 84 ranking institutions)
Opportunities to exhibit work at shows
We are dedicated to making sure our students are as employable as possible when they graduate.
To support this, we provide plenty of opportunities to exhibit your work, network with industry professionals, and undertake placements.
We also host a range of artists and professionals to deliver guest lectures and tutorials as part of our visiting artists programme.
Recent speakers include Assemble (2015 Turner Prize winners), Ming Wong, Mark Titchner, Cath Keay, Jordan Baseman, and Joshua Sofaer.
Lincoln alumnus, Royal Designer for Industry, and award-winning furniture designer, maker, and environmentalist.
The course offered many different modules in the areas of art and design which was extremely valuable, as at the time I was unsure of which field I wanted to specialise in.
Through these modules, I was able to better understand the subject area and also discover which field I actually enjoyed working in, which has helped to shape my career path.
Martin Dieguez
BA (Hons) Graphic Design
Students on many of our courses are able to display their work at the University’s on-campus public gallery, Project Space Plus.
This is a great opportunity for students to build recognition, see what others are producing, and receive feedback.
This group examines theories of creativity, teaching creativity, and the creative and cultural industries and aims to impact how we work and develop new ways of working.
Academics in this area are investigating diverse areas of fine art, including art activism, aesthetics, art-science methodologies, and post-humanism.
This group explores a broad range of areas, including co-design, participatory design, community design, collaborative design, diffuse design, and transition design.
Our industry-standard facilities enable our students to build and develop skills which they can put to use in the workplace.
Design students can access Adobe Creative Cloud suite software, which is available in all iMac computer suites across the University.
The University of Lincoln’s Art Shop stocks a wide range of art and design materials from specialist suppliers.
Items such as sketchbooks, specialist papers, foam boards and tools are all available to purchase at reduced prices.
The Book Arts space offers students the opportunity to create publications with a variety of bindings from pamphlet stitching, to concertina books, lay flat bindings, Japanese stab binding, fan-binding and section sewn books.
Students can work with workshop and technical staff to push the boundaries of materials and function to produce innovative and beautiful works, from unique copies to multiple editions.
Our fabric print specialist room features two large format printers with two sizes of accompanying heat press, for printing full colour digital images onto a range of natural and synthetic fabrics.
As well as domestic sewing machines, there is also a semi-industrial embroidery machine which allows design students to convert drawings and lettering into stitches.
The MakerLab is a specialist facility for working with ceramics, glass and precious metals.
The MakerLab comprises two small fusing kilns, a large flat-bed kiln, finishing machines, grinders, polishers, belt linishers and glass drilling equipment.
There is also a large top loader for glass casting with a comprehensive programmer for long and complex annealing schedules.
There is equipment for fine metalwork, laser cutting, heat press and sublimation printing, and book binding.
The photography studios are fully fitted with electronic LED flash lighting, wet film processing, darkrooms and a digital video edit suite.
Students have access to a range of camera formats and computer suites.
The photography studios are utilised for a wide range of projects from individual and group portraiture, to product shoots and occasionally live action/slow motion capture.
The printmaking studios provide facilities for traditional and contemporary printmaking processes.
The studios cater for a comprehensive range of techniques including screen printing, relief printing, and monotype and letterpress.
Our Sculpture and 3D workshop allows mold making and casting in a variety of materials from plaster and wax to specialist silicone rubbers and epoxy resins.
Our experienced technicians can guide students through many processes such as how to carry out life casting, making work directly from the body, or woodwork and clay for making masters, prototypes or even finished pieces.
Students can print on a range of specialist papers up to A0+ size, as well as using the large format, hi-resolution, scanning, vinyl cutting and Risograph printing facilities.
Our technical facilities are managed by a team of more than 30 highly experienced technical experts.
Many of the team are practising artists, designers and makers, with years of relevant knowledge and a passion for supporting students’ learning.
Multi-materials workshops for wood, metal, plaster, plastics, resin, equipment for acrylic resist etching, digital imagery and screen printing, as well as photography, video and animation facilities.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/subjects/filmandmedia:
Lincoln’s industry-focused film and media courses are designed to help you become an imaginative, creative, and culturally aware 21st Century media practitioner, with a thorough understanding of the creative industries and the ability to analyse and challenge media conventions.
They enable you to find your own creative voice in whichever field you are most passionate, while gaining important hands-on experience for your future career.
Specialist facilities where students can develop key skills
Teaching delivered by industry experts
Guest lectures from respected industry names
Opportunities to study abroad at our partner institutions around the world
Many of our courses place an emphasis on practical production informed by theory.
From the outset, you'll be able to produce original material and have access to professional-standard equipment and resources.
Our dedicated and experienced staff are here to help you thrive and succeed throughout your time with us.
What I enjoyed the most was learning both theoretical concepts and professional practices.
Each assignment allowed a personal approach where I collaborated creatively with students on other courses and outside the University, which helped with developing professional relationships.
Helena Spychala
BA (Hons) Sound and Music Production
Employability is at the heart of everything we do at Lincoln.
We have strong links with media and film organisations including the BBC, ITV, Panasonic, Sky, Adobe, BAFTA, the Royal Television Society, and the British Film Institute, which create opportunities for work experience and networking.
Our international partnerships with universities from across Europe, the USA, China, South East Asia, Australia, and Latin America, also provide exciting overseas study opportunities for our students.
Academics across film and media are conducing exciting, interdisciplinary research which is having an impact not only in academia, but on practice too.
Our facilities are the perfect spaces for you to explore your creativity and experiment with your craft under the guidance of experts.
iMacs running Pro Tools software for audio post-production and electronic music production workshops.
We also have self-contained audio edit suites for group project work with iMac/Pro Tools systems running Ableton, Sibelius, and Vienna Symphonic library.
A Pro Tools 5.1 dubbing theatre for mixing sound to picture, featuring a large-screen projector, a full Foley sound effects area and a commentary booth for voice-over and ADR.
Plus Sound Theatre B, a smaller facility for stereo audio post-production work.
We have two TV studios, one with an audience capacity of 135 and an area of over 2,500 sq ft.
Features include, high definition 1080i studio cameras, extensive studio lighting, sound desk, autocue, and audio and video software connectivity.
The Parlour is a high-end finishing and grading suite and provides colour correction, creative compositing, and image repair.
It is equipped with high-spec Mac Pros, high-grade monitors, and tangent panel control surfaces.
Software includes Autodesk SMOKE, FLAME, and DaVinci Resolve.
The Media and Broadcast Production Centre offers non-linear digital post-production for HD video editing.
There are 18 HD video editing suites, each with 8TB storage and 32GB RAM and featuring Avid Media Composer V8, Adobe Premiere CC, DaVinci Resolve, and a range of other software.
We offer full HD shooting and editing, using Panasonic AVcHD, Canon C100, and Sony FS100 cameras.
Extensive media kit for student loan including cameras, lights, grip, and audio recording equipment.
Dynamic spaces for producing live programmes, pre-recorded content, and radio drama.
Two multi-track recording studios comprise control rooms and recording areas including live rooms, dead rooms, and a drum isolation booth for music and drama production.
Equipment includes: Pro Tools, Audient ASP8024 mixing consoles (24 and 12 channels), UA Apollo and Antelope Orion AD/DA, Genelec 8030A and Mix Cube monitoring.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/subjects/performingarts:
Fine and performing arts at Lincoln is home to artists across the areas of theatre, dance, music, and musical theatre.
Members of our interdisciplinary community often work alongside each other to push the boundaries of performance and creativity.
We offer a broad range of courses, which are led by industry active academics and delivered in dedicated facilities that give students the space to explore their disciplines and hone their skills.
Industry standard facilities to build and develop skills
Drama and Dance at Lincoln is ranked in the top 10 in the UK for teaching satisfaction in the Guardian University Guide 2024 (out of 84 ranking institutions)
Learn from practicing performers and active researchers
Opportunities to join the Lincoln Company, a professional collaboration which performs at venues across the UK
We help you to prepare for your future career by offering opportunities for industry placements, careers support, additional training, and expert talks.
Our talented graduates have gone on to a diverse range of careers following their studies in areas including theatre making, directing, producing, composing, venue management, choreography, and community arts leadership.
Studying at Lincoln was the best decision I made.
It set me up for my career working as an Assistant Director at The Royal Shakespeare Company, an Associate Director at National Theatre, and Director at Curve Theatre.
Lincoln provided the skills, knowledge, and understanding of the Arts I needed to pursue my career as a Director.
Mandeep Kaur Glover
BA (Hons) Drama and Theatre and MA Theatre graduate
The Lincoln Company is a professional company of emerging theatre, dance, and performance makers.
Members can take on a variety of roles within the company such as performing, writing, directing, and producing.
As the company-in-residence at Lincoln Arts Centre, they work to produce and tour high-quality, original performances to venues and festivals around the UK, including Edinburgh Festival Fringe, the world’s largest platform for the arts.
Our academics are conducting research which is expanding knowledge and informing practice across the performing arts.
It is this research that also informs our teaching, and ensures you are learning about developments at the forefront of your field.
Academics are exploring areas such as contemporary playwriting, theatre-making, and intercultural performance.
Research work has impacted on local, regional, national and international constituencies, contributing to developments in other sectors such as education, healthcare, immigration, justice, and the armed forces.
More About Drama
Research in music encompasses musicology, ethnomusicology, composition and practice, and takes an interdisciplinary approach across the arts, humanities, social sciences and STEM.
Learn More About Music
An interdisciplinary group of academics exploring Broadway and the West End; new writing in musical theatre; British musical theatre; Queer Theory, and wider understandings of the intersections between music and the stage.
Learn More
Our facilities offer a setting for you to collaborate with other students and develop the skills you need to succeed in industry and your future career.
A 350 capacity versatile music venue with integrated in-house PA system.
Soundproofed practice and rehearsal rooms for music.
Mirrored dance studios for professional practice.
Two multi-track recording studios comprise control rooms and three recording areas including live rooms, dead rooms and a drum isolation booth for music and drama production.
Six audio edit suites and four radio production studios.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/subjects/agri-foodandfoodmanufacturing:
With the world’s population expected to grow to almost 10 billion by 2050, increasing global agricultural demand is putting pressure on farmers and manufacturers to find innovative technologies and practices to stay ahead in this critically important sector.
At the University of Lincoln, our staff and students are engaged in impactful research designed to make a difference across the food chain, with a clear focus on improving productivity, safety, quality, efficiency, and sustainability through innovation.
Sector-leading expertise across agri-tech and food manufacturing
Innovative apprenticeship provision to meet employer needs
A range of flexible learning opportunities including short courses and e-learning modules
Our postgraduate programmes focus on specialist areas, allow our students to develop their expertise and to undertake impactful research.
Meeting the Needs of Employers
The National Centre for Food Manufacturing is seen as a national exemplar for its innovative apprenticeship provision and commitment to partnering with employers to develop and deliver apprenticeships to meet their needs.
Through LIAT, the University of Lincoln is committed to developing the higher-level skills that the agricultural and food manufacturing industries' need in the 21st century.
We provide essential professional development to working farmers and agronomists through our courses run at the University of Lincoln’s Riseholme Campus.
For more information, please contact us by email at igould@lincoln.ac.uk
With a growing world population, climate change, and limited supplies of natural resources, making sure our food and supply chains are robust and effective has arguably never been more important.
By focusing on improving productivity, efficiency, and sustainability, researchers at the University of Lincoln are developing new approaches that are having a major impact across the food chain.
We recognise that the application of technological innovation is crucial to helping to solve some of the big challenges facing agriculture and food production, so our research institutes, centres, and groups are focusing on key areas such as robotics and automation, AI, computer science, energy efficiency, engineering, crop science, and data management applications.
At the University of Lincoln, we recognise that the application of technological innovation is crucial to helping to solve some of the big challenges facing agriculture and food production.
By focusing on agri-food technology, our researchers are helping to improve productivity, efficiency, and sustainability by developing new approaches to food production.
Professor Simon Pearson
Professor Simon Pearson is Director of the Lincoln Institute for Agri-food Technology, and his passion for food production and innovative research approaches is helping to drive productivity across the agri-food sector.
Our National Centre for Food Manufacturing (NCFM) is progressing high-impact, food-sector-focused research designed to advance the industry at all points in the supply chain, offering expertise, high-quality laboratory and factory facilities, and extensive industry and academic networks.
Dr Bukola Onarinde
Dr Onarinde is an Associate Professor at the University’s National Centre for Food Manufacturing and has amassed more than 15 years' experience of industrial research collaboration across the fields of food microbiology and food science and technology.
Develop Your Expertise
In addition to our on-campus programmes, we offer an extensive range of flexible courses,
including short courses for food and drink and agri-food professionals, and various e-learning modules.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/subjects/computerscience:
Society is in the midst of a digital revolution, from the smartphones we use to navigate our daily lives to the advances in artificial intelligence set to transform global industries.
At Lincoln, our programmes aim to provide a broad foundation in computer science and provides students with the chance to develop the mathematical, analytical, and problem-solving skills required to succeed in the challenging and exciting modern computing industry.
With students spread across our range of undergraduate (BSc), integrated Master's (MComp), and postgraduate courses (MSc by Research/PhD), the subject offers an exciting, thriving, and expanding environment in which to study and develop.
Our Science Foundation Year is designed to open up an exciting world of opportunities within science, healthcare, or engineering related subjects for students who may not have the standard entry requirements for a degree.
Our students have access to a range of equipment for loan, including Raspberry Pi devices, smartphones, robots, and virtual reality equipment such as HTC Vive and Oculus Quest.
As a Microsoft Imagine Academy member and Cisco Academy member, we also give students the opportunity to gain industry recognised qualifications such as Microsoft Technology Associate and Cisco certification at no additional cost.
The University of Lincoln teamed up with XMA for the creation of our new and improved Computer Science lab.
Sponsored by ASUS hardware and Republic of Gamers (RoG), this case study delves into the innovative solutions that powered its success.
Explore how collaboration, advanced technology, and strategic planning shaped the lab into a future-ready space for students and faculty alike.
The Computer Science programme at Lincoln has done an excellent job of providing a diverse range of topics relevant to the current industry.
This has not only increased my confidence in my ability to enter the workplace, but it has also encouraged me to develop and pursue my own specific interests.
Our courses aim to equip graduates with the mathematical, analytical, and problem-solving skills that make them well-placed for computer and technology-related roles across a range of sectors.
Recent graduates have secured roles at GCHQ and major companies including IBM, Google, Microsoft, CGI, Sky, Samsung, BT, and Accenture.
Those studying Games programmes may work across the games industry as developers, tools programmers, artificial intelligence programmers, level designers, mission scripters, games testers, and in many other roles in the wider IT industry.
At Lincoln, we undertake a blend of fundamental, applied, and interdisciplinary research.
There are particular strengths in computational neuroscience, machine learning, data analytics, robotics, medical imaging, AI in healthcare, and many aspects of human–computer interaction and games computing.
intLab is a Human–Computer Interaction (HCI) research group which brings together a broad range of members with expertise in computer science, psychology, and design.
L-CAS specialises in perception, learning, decision-making, control, and interaction for autonomous systems, such as robots.
This groups specialises in the capture, transmission, processing and understanding of image, video and other high-dimensional data.
The MLearn group specialises in artificial and computational intelligence, focused on the design and development of machines that are able to reason, predict, and adapt to changing environments.
Our military programmes provide an opportunity for serving and retired military personnel to gain internationally recognised postgraduate awards.
The games computing labs in the Isaac Newton Building feature high specification gaming PCs, industry-standard software development environments, 3D modelling software, and virtual reality systems.
Software development environments such as Unreal Engine 4, Unity Pro, and Visual Studio play a major part in the practical elements of our courses.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/subjects/engineering:
Engineers provide the critical link between scientific discovery and the practical application of knowledge, which is helping to meet the needs of business and society.
Our engineering programmes at Lincoln are designed to be modern and innovative to help equip our graduates with the knowledge and skills needed to pursue their ambitions and have successful and sustained careers in this dynamic field.
Undertake exciting work placements to build connections and apply your knowledge
Industry-standard facilities where you can develop real-world skills
Exciting research being conducted by industry experts
Engineering at Lincoln is ranked 2nd overall in the UK in the Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2023
Engineering at Lincoln seeks to transform engineering education to create value and develop breakthrough technologies, products, systems, and services regionally and across the world.
This year students from the University of Lincoln will be taking part in IMechE Formula Student for the first time as Lincoln Racing.
The team is comprised of over 30 Lincoln students from a range of courses, such as engineering, maths, business, media and journalism.
We have a range of experience as a team with members from racing teams and industry backgrounds.
Their goal is to make the formula-style race car for July 2025 at Silverstone, but also to set solid foundations for future entries from the University.
Founded in partnership with Siemens and now progressing with Siemens Energy, Lincoln’s School of Engineering has a core philosophy of research-led teaching.
Informed by the needs of industry, our programmes aim to prepare students to make an immediate contribution upon entering the workplace.
Obtaining a degree from the University of Lincoln has helped my career massively, opening many doors to jobs which can further my career and growth within the industry I work.
Ross Freel
BSc (Hons) Engineering Management
Supporting you to develop the skills needed to pursue your chosen career is at the heart of our approach to teaching.
The University’s strong industry links give Lincoln students enhanced opportunities for placements, mentoring, and recruitment.
Graduates from Lincoln have gone on to exciting careers at destinations including Rolls-Royce, Qinetiq, JCB, and Jaguar Land Rover.
Our exciting research is changing understanding of engineering and bringing the field into new areas.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/subjects/gamescomputing:
Games Computing at Lincoln aims to develop the skills and attributes required for roles in the competitive computing sector.
Our programmes are designed to help students develop as versatile professionals, capable of thriving in a wide range of post-university employment destinations.
Students also have the opportunity to develop skills that lend themselves to the ever-growing, multi-billion pound video games industry.
Beyond learning how to develop software, students can also develop an understanding of the interaction between the computer and its user, and how to design an engaging experience.
We aim to produce graduates who can adapt to quickly evolving technology and play key roles within the companies at the forefront of those advances.
Access a range of specialist facilities and equipment
Take part in games workshops and game jams
Teaching informed by cutting-edge topics
Undertake personal projects that interest you
Games Computing is a hands-on programme that allows students to embrace their creativity through programming and designing games from traditional platform styles to games utilising augmented and virtual reality.
Take a look at the projects our Games Computing students have created recently.
Games Computing students have access to a specialist development laboratory, industry-standard software development environments, 3D modelling software, and virtual reality systems.
"I chose Lincoln for the course.
I wanted a course, that when I did leave uni, I would have a good amount of knowledge in all computer science aspects and that my job opportunities weren’t just limited to game development." - Courtney, BSc Games Computing Student
Recent graduates who studied Games programmes may work across the games industry as developers, tools programmers, artificial intelligence programmers, level designers, mission scripters, games testers, and in many other roles in the wider IT industry.
Lincoln Games Computing graduates have gone on to work for computer games industry giants and other specialist companies in the sector.
These include Electronic Arts (EA Games), Criterion Games, Rockstar Games, Sumo Digital, BAE Systems, and Team 17.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/subjects/mathematics:
Mathematics at Lincoln ranges from pure mathematics to applied mathematics.
We focus on both the beauty of mathematical concepts, and how to use these concepts in meaningful ways.
At Lincoln you also have the opportunity to take an interdisciplinary approach, combining mathematics with areas such as philosophy, computer science, and theoretical physics so that you can experience the numerous applications of this broad subject.
Our expert academics collaborate with top research institutions such as ones located in Germany, Japan, Norway, the Netherlands, Singapore, Spain, and the USA.
Their research directly informs what is taught on courses at all levels, helping to ensure that students are learning about the latest developments in the field.
Chances to work on exciting research projects
Placement opportunities designed to give you real-world experience
Mathematics is ranked top 10 for student satisfaction in the Complete University Guide 2025
Mathematics at Lincoln is ranked in the top 10 in the UK for teaching in the National Student Survey 2024
MMath student Ewan talks us through his decision to study at Lincoln, and what he loves about the course.
Our students can work alongside our experienced academic staff on challenging projects, which could contribute to academic research or collaboration with industry.
Teaching on all of our taught programmes is conducted by academic members of staff who are active researchers in their fields, and this research directly informs teaching at all levels.
We regularly welcomes guest speakers from around the world.
Recent visitors to the University of Lincoln have included former vice president of the Royal Astronomical Society Professor Don Kurtz, mathematician and author Professor Marcus du Sautoy OBE, and operations research specialist Ruth Kaufman OBE.
The main attraction for me was the reputation of the algebra department.
The University not only has a strong focus on teaching pure mathematics, but also has a strong reputation in the world of research, especially in algebra.
Thomas Smith
MMath Mathematics
Our Research
Algebraists at Lincoln conduct interesting research on finite and infinite groups and their automorphisms, Lie algebras, profinite and locally finite groups, topological groups, permutation groups, polynomial algebra, and algebraic number theory.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/subjects/physics:
Physics is a fundamental science which underpins our understanding of the world around us, from distant galaxies to the smallest particles.
At Lincoln, we have built a community of physicists, many of whom are active researchers, with a wealth of expertise across the field.
Our courses cover areas from fluid dynamics to general relativity, meaning you can build knowledge in topics which suit your interests and specialisms.
Our excellent facilities in the Isaac Newton Building give you the opportunity to conduct experiments and participate in research which is shaping how we look at reality.
Subject area ranked 1st in the UK for student satisfaction in the Complete University Guide 2025
Teaching is informed by the latest research in the field
Specialist facilities where you can conduct exciting research alongside our staff
Opportunities to undertake placements to develop knowledge and gain real-world skills
Physics courses at Lincoln offers the opportunity to study a combination of fundamental and applied physics alongside rigorous mathematics and computational training.
Teaching is informed by research, with the chance for students to work on real-world research projects alongside our academic staff.
Our teaching is directly informed by our research, and our students have the chance to work on real-world research projects with our academic staff.
Students have recently been involved in a range of projects focusing on topics including exoplanets, gravitational waves, nanophysics, chaos, and quantum dots.
I have found all the course content fascinating and engaging, covering a broad range of topics in physics and mathematics.
I thoroughly enjoyed the Electrodynamics and Condensed Matter modules, which were both challenging in their own right, but massively interesting.
Matthew Thompson
MPhys Physics
Our academics are collaborating with experts across institutions in Germany, Japan, Norway, the Netherlands, Singapore, Spain, and the USA to produce cutting-edge research.
Our astrophysics research is dealing with some of most complex structures in our solar system, such as planetary rings around Saturn.
We are also exploring exorings and exomoons.
The School is home to the Centre for Computational Physics, with research encompassing computational and theoretical physics as well as applied mathematics.
Research in the School brings together expertise from a range of disciplines to focus on various applications of nanotechnology; from renewable energy to nano-medicine.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/subjects/roboticsandai:
Robotics and Artificial Intelligence are closely related interdisciplinary areas of computer science and engineering dedicated to the design, construction, and control of intelligent devices and systems.
From agriculture and food production to medical care and manufacturing, robots and intelligent systems are being increasingly used around the world to assist or extend human actions.
The Robotics programme at Lincoln offers students a broad range of training experiences in the multidisciplinary world of robotics, covering hardware and software basics, from electronics and mechanics, to autonomous control and intelligent decision-making.
Robotics is taught across the University’s College of Health and Science, with research-informed teaching and facilities from the School of Computer Science, the School of Engineering, and Lincoln Institute for Agri-food Technology.
Computer Science and Engineering at Lincoln are housed in the University’s Isaac Newton Building, while the Lincoln Institute for Agri-food Technology is situated just three miles north of Lincoln in a beautiful semi-rural setting at our Riseholme Campus.
Our Robotics programme is strongly linked to the research and innovation taking place within the Lincoln Centre for Autonomous Systems , and Lincoln Agri-robotics – the world’s first global centre of excellence in agricultural robotics.
These research centres are leading the way in developing robotics in fields including manufacturing, healthcare, autonomous driving, and agriculture.
The University of Lincoln has also launched the world’s first Centre for Doctoral Training in Agri-food Robotics in collaboration with the University of Cambridge and the University of East Anglia.
This new advanced training centre in agri-food robotics is creating the largest ever cohort of Robotics and Autonomous Systems specialists or the global food and farming sectors, thanks to a multi-million-pound funding award from the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council.
SUSTAINable Futures
Find out more about SUSTAIN, a collaborative project that aims to use artificial intelligence to help the UK in achieving net zero by 2050.
Lincoln is at the forefront of agri-tech research, and thanks to £10.6 million funding from UK Research and Innovation will be training the scientists who can help make this happen.
Sarah Reade, PhD Student
Sarah is working to create a walking robotic manipulator that can help with the decommissioning of large fusion nuclear reactors, helping to support a clean and safe solution to the world’s growing demand for affordable energy.
Robotics bridges the gap between mechanical engineering, electrical engineering, computer science, and artificial intelligence, opening up opportunities across a range of different careers.
G raduates are well placed for positions in robotics or other tech, manufacturing, or supply chain companies.
There is also a growing requirement and reliance on computer science and artificial intelligence in modern organisations around the world in areas such as data analysis and behavioural patterns, as well as technologies such as home assistants, mobile platforms, and transportation.
Our Artificial Intelligence programmes aim to develop confident and informed graduates who will be able to contribute to and develop these and new technologies of the future.
A £4.9 million grant from the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council is helping to deliver a step change in activity and fund the drive to make the Lincolnshire and Cambridgeshire region a global innovation centre for agricultural technology.
New research led by the University of Lincoln has developed a new method using AI and machine learning to better understand changes in atmospheric circulation and help to improve predicting seasonal weather conditions in the UK and Northwest Europe.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/subjects/animalsciences:
Students at Lincoln can study animal biology across a range of programmes, with opportunities to specialise in areas such as zoology, behaviour and welfare, evolution and ecology.
Our degree programmes employ a multi-disciplinary, research-driven approach to the study of these topics, and our teaching is informed by academics who are considered to be at the forefront of their respective fields.
Our goal is to help students develop the knowledge and skills needed to understand these topics and to provide hands-on experience of both laboratory based learning, as well practical work with animals from insects to domestic farm animals.
Animal Sciences is ranked 1st overall in the UK in the Guardian University Guide 2025
Overseas field trips to study local plants and animals
Develop your skills in a professional environment through placement opportunities
World-leading research that is helping to change the world
Join us as we follow BSc (Hons) Animal Behaviour and Welfare students Jade and Izzy as they volunteer at Riseholme Park Farm during Lambing.
Our full-time students can undertake an optional placement year between the second and third year of their course, providing the opportunity to gain workplace experience and a chance to hone your skills in a professional environment.
All of our biological and life sciences programmes are also available as a three-year BSc (Hons) or four-year integrated Master’s, which enable you to undertake an additional research-intensive year.
Our undergraduate programmes offer the chance to take part in an optional overseas field trip in the third year to study plants and animals in the wild.
Destinations have previously included the cloud forests of Ecuador, the Mankwe Wildlife Reserve in South Africa, and Molise in Italy.
Run by a team of highly qualified behaviourists, our Animal Behaviour Clinic is a referral-only clinic for pets with behaviour and training problems.
Students can gain valuable experience through opportunities to support the Clinic's work.
Learn About Our Clinic
"I chose Lincoln because it was overall friendly and I felt more at home than some other universities.
And the campus is absolutely beautiful and it's great to go and walk around." - Natalie, BSc Biology Student
Part of Lincoln Science and Innovation Park, Minster House is equipped with specialist labs where our academics and students are conducting exciting research to improve our understanding of the behaviour and welfare of animals.
Minster House is also the home of our Animal Behaviour, Cognition, and Welfare Research Group, a unique team of internationally-renowned researchers at the forefront of the animal behaviour field.
From tackling the life-threatening complications of diabetes, to delivering innovative solutions in animal welfare, life sciences research at Lincoln at helping to change the world.
This group comprises a team of internationally-renowned researchers working at the forefront of, and interface between, animal behaviour, cognition, health, and welfare.
This group pursues a collaborative approach to increase understanding of disease characteristically associated with ageing at the molecular level, to improve prevention, diagnosis, and treatment.
This research group is focused on innovative research in the area of diabetes and related cardiometabolic and associated inflammatory disorders.
This research group works to understand the evolution and ecology of populations, species, and communities, across all levels of biological organisation, from genes through to ecosystems.
This group is working to answer fundamental questions relating to the characterisation, evaluation, and testing of microorganisms and viruses.
Professor Daniel Mills is an international authority on companion animal behaviour, cognition, and welfare.
Daniel is Professor of Veterinary Behavioural Medicine at the University of Lincoln, sharing more than three decades of research experience.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/subjects/biologicalandlifesciences:
The study of life sciences involves examining living organisms and their workings from cells to ecosystems.
It includes disciplines, such as biology, biochemistry, ecology, and zoology to help us understand evolution, and interactions between organisms and the world around us.
At Lincoln, we offer a wide range of programmes spanning the life sciences, and our academic researchers are undertaking high-profile studies at the forefront of knowledge in the field.
Biological Sciences is ranked 3rd in the UK for student satisfaction in the Complete University Guide 2025
Placement opportunities to develop your skills in a professional environment
Biology Alumni Topaz recently visited the University to talk to us about how here degree in Biology helped her career is a fundraising manager for The Elephant Family charity.
Biomedical Science graduate, Beth Williams, is now working as a Senior Clinical Research Practitioner for the National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR) Clinical Research Network (CRN) East Midlands.
I thoroughly enjoyed my Biomedical Science degree at the University of Lincoln.
I was supported through every stage of the three years, with a wide range of staff available for academic, personal, and career-focused help and advice.
Dr Imogen Napper
Imogen studied Biomedical Science at Undergraduate level and Biotechnology at Postgraduate level here at Lincoln.
Hear about what Imogen has been up to since graduating, and some of the reasons why Lincoln is such a great place to study.
The Joseph Banks Laboratories provide cutting-edge facilities for the Schools of Chemistry, Life and Environmental Sciences, and Pharmacy.
Students have access to scientific laboratories, and technologies including Mass Spectrometry, Imaging Modalities, and Chromatography.
Minster House is home to the School of Life Sciences’ Animal Behaviour, Cognition and Welfare research group.
The building is also part of Lincoln Science & Innovation Park (LSIP).
Minster House houses the research facilities of the University of Lincoln's Animal Behaviour, Cognition and Welfare Research Group, a unique team of internationally-renowned researchers at the forefront of the animal behaviour field.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/subjects/chemistry:
Chemistry is the study of the way matter acts, interacts, and is transformed, and plays a key role in tackling global challenges such as energy production, health and wellbeing, food security, and the use of natural resources.
At Lincoln, we aim to integrate the core chemistry disciplines with advanced topics aligned to the major scientific challenges of the 21st Century.
Ranked in the top 10 overall in the UK in the Guardian University Guide 2025
Ranked 2nd in the UK for student satisfaction in the Complete University Guide 2025
A focus on skills development through industry challenges
Courses developed in partnership with regional and national chemical science companies
Our undergraduate Chemistry courses feature a skills development programme through professional practice modules, including CV writing and interview skills.
You can also engage with a series of themed industry challenges with industry partners with multi-national and SME organisations representing the analytical, formulation, pharmaceutical, and energy and environmental sectors.
We use an innovative full-year industrial placement programme for all students at the final stage of our MChem courses.
You can choose to focus on research through a placement in a research group at the University, or complete a full-year placement in industry.
There are also opportunities for overseas placements around the world through our International Intern Programme.
Find out about the experience of chemistry student Abigail Tranter, a third year on our MChem Chemistry programme.
Hear why Abigail chose to study with us and how she decided which course was right for her.
Chemistry graduates can pursue a wide range of science-related careers in sectors including energy, petrochemicals, pharmaceuticals, and consumer and personal care products.
Our courses aims to equip graduates with extensive analytical and mathematical skills which are relevant to roles in finance, management, science-based marketing and journalism, education, and academic research.
After completing her MChem Forensic Chemistry at Lincoln, Shantae joined pharmaceutical and biotechnology company AstraZeneca as a Clinical Logistics Specialist, where she focuses on optimising clinical manufacturing and supply operations.
"If it wasn’t for the University of Lincoln, I would not be working for one of the best global pharmaceutical companies in the world."
Bridge operates from the University of Lincoln and has a dedicated team of R&D project specialists working alongside the University’s academic community.
We help you access technologies and methods at the forefront of research to create R&D solutions, to provide effective problem solving and to develop workforce skills through accredited training.
Chemistry students have access to the University’s Joseph Banks Laboratories and Janet Lane-Claypon Building, which offer specialist laboratory and teaching spaces.
High-specifcation equipment is available for nuclear magnetic resonance, mass spectrometry, chromatography, electron microscopy, and X-ray difraction.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/subjects/forensicscience:
Forensic scientists provide impartial evidence in criminal investigations through their scientific expertise.
They work in laboratories, at crime scenes, and in courtrooms, utilising their highly developed biology and chemistry skills.
Their detailed work encompasses elements of chemistry and biology applied in areas such as toxicology, DNA analysis, and trace evidence.
Forensic Science at Lincoln is ranked 1st overall in the UK in the Guardian University Guide 2025
Links with law enforcement, and forensic science providers and consultants
Focus on professional practice to improve career prospects
Dan Matthews, programme leader for BSc (Hons) Forensic Science at the University of Lincoln introduces our Crime Scene House facility in the Think Tank.
Students on our BSc (Hons) Forensic Science course may have the opportunity to take part in an optional overseas field course provides the opportunity to experience first hand the work of a forensic specialist.
This is designed to introduce students to laboratory and field work within an international context while developing a global perspective of forensic science.
My time at the University of Lincoln can be summed up in on word...incredible!
I learnt so much in my three years.
The modules and content were interesting, informative, and inspiring.
The lecturers are amazing at explaining things and staff also go the extra mile to support you.
James Gridley
BSc (Hons) Forensic Science
The University has working relationships with the Metropolitan Police, Lincolnshire Police, the European Network of Forensic Science Institutes, and private sector forensic science providers and consultants.
Practitioners such as JC Fire are key contributors to the programme, and may offer students access to training and real-world case studies.
On some courses you may have the opportunity to undertake placements which can last from a few weeks to a year.
These are excellent opportunities to contextualise your knowledge and put the skills you have learnt in the classroom into practice in  a real-world environment.
Research at Lincoln
Research within the Forensic and Crime Research Group involves the application of psychological knowledge and methods to areas relating to crime and justice.
The Janet Lane-Claypon Building is the base for laboratory-based instruction in Chemistry, Life Sciences and Pharmacy.
The building includes flexible lab space used by all undergraduates in these subjects, as well as smaller specialist teaching and research spaces.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/subjects/geography:
From climate change to health inequalities and food security to natural hazards and disasters, geography is at the heart of many of humanity’s great challenges.
At Lincoln, we believe that meeting these challenges requires us to understand the links between humans and the environments we inhabit — a theme that runs through our teaching and research.
Geography at Lincoln is ranked in the top 20 overall in the UK in the Guardian University Guide 2024
Examine a broad range of topics to understand the links between humanity and the environment
Our undergraduate programmes offer the chance to benefit from a wide range of fieldwork destinations both in the UK and overseas to support the development of key skills in gathering, collating, and analysing quantitative and qualitative data.
In the first and second-year, fieldwork is a core subject and has been previously conducted at the coast of Lincolnshire and the Greek island of Crete.
Our undergraduate students can benefit from opportunities to gain valuable work experience with partners in industry, schools, and public sector organisations.
These include a placement module in the second year and a consultancy module in the third year of our undergraduate courses, enabling students to practice and develop a wide range of skills and expertise of relevance to the workplace whilst also building invaluable career networks.
Geography graduates are in high demand across a wide range of professions and organisations .
Our graduates can progress onto careers in areas including local government, health and social care planning, urban planning, teaching, environmental consultancy, and enviro n mental management .
The Department's links with industry, business, and environmental regulatory agencies provide valuable opportunities for internships and work experience.
The range of physical and human modules allows you to make the degree your own and follow what you are interested in.
The valuable opportunities to get involved with real-world research projects is fantastic and helps put your interests at the forefront.
At Lincoln, our researchers are working to help solve some of the world's most pressing problem.
Our academic teams are firmly focused on examining the relationship between human society, the environment, and the challenges we face now and in the future.
This group is examining catchment and coastal processes affecting billions of people across the globe.
This group is working on the most immediate threats to the resilience of human–environment systems and seeking to understand the complex interactions between societies and the landscapes they inhabit.
The Lincoln Climate Research Group is developing innovative solutions to the challenge of sustainability through interdisciplinary research.
Professor Edward Hanna
Edward Hanna is Professor of Climate Science and Meteorology and a Fellow of the Royal Meteorological Society.
Research led by Professor Hanna has developed a new method using AI and machine learning which could improve predicting seasonal weather condition.
Our team has set up an automatic weather station on the rooftop of the University's Isaac Newton Building.
Data collected is planned for use in a variety of student projects and for micrometeorology and climate change research.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/subjects/healthandcaresciences:
Health Sciences play a central role in the lives and wellbeing of people around the world, and as these fascinating fields develop, there are opportunities for professionals from all kinds of backgrounds to play a key role improving the lives of others.
We offer a wide range of programmes which can provide options to students who wish to make a difference in these areas.
Our wide range of programmes across health sciences and in social care can provide a wealth of options to students who wish to make a difference to the lives of others.
New course development
The University is working to develop a new BSc in Dental Hygiene and Therapy due to run from September 2026.
This programme is in the development stage and further information including course details and entry requirements will be available in due course.
Health and Social Care Alumni Kristina Key recently visited the university to discuss how her degree helped her career with Lincolnshire Talking Therapies.
The University of Lincoln works with a range of placement providers across the breadth of our county.
These include hospitals, care homes, hospices, voluntary organisations, educational establishments, local authorities, and private companies depending on your course.
Lincolnshire is a large and complex county with a diverse population spread across urban, rural, and coastal areas; each presenting their own unique challenges for placements.
Due to this, students have the opportunity to gain a multitude of different experiences across their degree to prepare them for whatever future roles they may choose
Explore Placements
The Insight to Primary Care Placement opportunity is available to Nursing, Pharmacy and Paramedic Students.
The placement will take place within Primary Care and Community settings in Lincolnshire and will involve Insight and Tour Days giving students the opportunity to gain clinical competencies, insights and teaching to carry out health checks, medication reviews, history taking and a wide variety of Primary Care based activities.
Our postgraduate programmes span a broad range of specialist areas.
You may also choose to undertake research programmes under the supervision of our academic staff.
Oxford Medical Simulation Case Study:
The University of Lincoln has partnered with Oxford Medical Simulation to deliver a virtual reality solution for our 2nd year BSc students to work with.
This has both provided a means of delivering more realistic and robust simulations, as well as skills assessments while saving time and critically – without sacrificing quality.
​The Sarah Swift Building is home to clinical suites which simulate hospital and home environments, and feature specialist artificial patient technologies, including large plinth rooms and a new VR teaching suite, where you can build your confdence in practice.
Health and Wellbeing Hub
Explore our post-registration programmes and continuing professional development for qualified practitioners working across the health and social care sector.
Our apprenticships provide the opportunity to study for a degree while gaining hands-on experience and a professional pathway for future development.
Funded by the government and your employer, our apprenticeships combine work-based learning and education, which gives employers the opportunity to select, train and develop their workforce according to an employer-defined standard.
Conducting world-class research to address the most challenging health issues facing rural and coastal communities across the world.
Adopting a multidisciplinary approach to increase understanding of disease associated with ageing at the molecular level.
A vision to create a strong, dynamic, and engaged culture to carry out research that has the potential for real-world impact.
Exploring pre-clinical aspects, from the identification of novel drug targets to the development of improved methods of delivery.
Research aims to support the challenges faced by an increasing global life expectancy and ageing populations.
Providing expert knowledge and guidance to create and drive innovation in health and social care settings.
Answering fundamental questions relating to the characterisation, evaluation, and testing of microorganisms and viruses.
Specialising in developing and applying contemporary psychological science to address health-related challenges.
The University of Lincoln has secured a £10.9 million grant from UK Research and Innovation to help tackle place-based inequalities in rural and coastal communities through an innovative approach to health and wellbeing research.
Meet PhD student Georgia Clay, whose research at the University of Lincoln is examining the relationships between health, physical activity, service professionals, and older adult stroke survivors in the context of community stroke rehabilitation.
Mark Gussy is Global Professor in Rural Health and Social Care and he is exploring the broader determinants of health to help transform current practices and ensure that marginalised communities have access to the support they need.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/subjects/nursing:
Nurses perform a vital role in 21st Century healthcare, in both primary and secondary care settings, restoring and promoting health, supporting patients and their families, and profiling healthcare needs of communities.
Our professionally accredited programmes enable you to become a registered nurse with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC).
The programmes aim to prepare students to become fit for practice in accordance with the NMC's Standards for Pre-registration Nursing Education and to be eligible to register as a qualified nurse.
Students are encouraged to become confident, critically analytical advocates of excellence in nursing practice within their respective specialisms.
Nursing programmes are accredited by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC)
Learn in our industry-standard clinical skills suites which replicate real-world environments and utilise the latest equipment.
Develop your skills in range of healthcare environments through professional practice placements
Our teaching is informed by consultation with real service users.
Listen to Elizabeth chat about why she chose to study nursing at Lincoln and what her experience has been like so far.
Practice placements are an integral part of the University of Lincoln's Health and Social Care programmes where students will spend part of their course learning in a real-world setting.
The opportunity to learn while taking on the roles and responsibilities of the workplace allows our students to apply the theory they have learnt and develop their practical skills within a real environment.
Learn About Placements
Our apprenticeships provide the opportunity to study for a degree while gaining hands-on experience and a professional pathway for future development.
Funded by the government and your employer, our apprenticeships combine work-based learning and education, which gives employers the opportunity to select, train, and develop their workforce according to an employer-defined standard.
Studying at Lincoln was the best three years of my academic life.
My advice would be to absorb and relish every second.
I feel Lincoln has some fantastic support networks and opportunities that just can’t be missed.
The MSc Nursing (Pre-registration) courses aim to prepare graduates for the complex, demanding, and rewarding area of adult nursing.
The courses provide those from a range of backgrounds with the opportunity to transfer their skills to become a registered nurse.
We caught up with some of our current students to discuss their experiences of this demanding but rewarding postgraduate course.
Our academics are conducting and contributing to research that's improving the quality of peoples lives, health, and the care the receive.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/subjects/psychology:
Studying psychology allows you to explore some of the big questions about what it means to be human, examining the science behind how people think, behave, and react to others.
At Lincoln you can benefit from teaching delivered by expert lecturers in excellent facilities.
Our teams are also producing exciting research, and there are plenty of projects taking place which you are able to get involved in and contribute to pushing our knowledge of the mind even further.
Industry-standard facilities where you can conduct exciting research
Broaden your horizons through international study opportunities
Build employability skills and industry knowledge through work placements
All of our degree programmes are fully accredited
Many of our undergraduate courses offer you the opportunity to study overseas for a year and experience a new culture and environment.
Our Global Opportunities Team are on hand to provide support and advice to students taking this option.
We have great opportunities for you to explore your subject beyond the classroom.
For example, y ou can join DigiPsych, our online magazine run by psychology students, or listen to guest speakers from research and industry at our special Lincoln International Seminars.
You may also be able to participate in networking opportunities with previous Lincoln graduates who are in the middle of interesting and successful careers.
The thing which stood out about Lincoln was the teaching and support that the staff offered and the access to opportunities.
I think you get a sense of that once you visit the University and speak with the staff.
Natasha Fosker
BSc (Hons) Psychology
Our graduates go on to exciting careers in a variety of professional fields within psychology, from clinical, health, occupational and educational, to forensic, sport and exercise, counselling, neuropsychology, and academia, research, and teaching.
Previous graduates have used their degree as a basis for roles in research, management, marketing, health settings, or education.
Our research community is producing world-leading research.
We have a number of research groups where academics with similar interests can collaborate to explore and share ideas.
The Autism Research Innovation Centre is focused on strengthening the wider autism community and creating innovative approaches to enrich the lives of autistic people.
We are a collection of researchers investigating core research topics such as face perception, neural plasticity, sleep, and human to dog emotion communication.
We are a team of interdisciplinary developmental, social, and evolutionary psychologists who investigate the development of cognitive, language, social, emotional, motor, and behavioural processes.
Our research applies psychological knowledge and methods to areas relating to crime and justice.
Our research areas include public attitudes, gambling and addiction, and forensic practice research.
Lincoln Sleep Research Centre covers areas which include sleep and wellbeing, neuroscience of sleep, and sleep in the community.
Research within the group includes mental health for children and young people, links between physical and mental health and development of new interventions for mental health.
This research group investigates individuals emotions, thoughts, and behaviours in diverse social contexts.
Areas of focus include identities, sexism, body image, and racism and citizenship.
You can benefit from industry-standard facilities where you're able to conduct exciting research.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/subjects/sportscience:
Sport science brings together a range of different disciplines and focuses on the scientific principles behind exercise performance.
It combines branches of science, including physiology, psychology, biomechanics, and nutrition to open up a wide range of potential careers across a number of industries.
Benefit from strong industry links with a range of organisations
Develop your skills in excellent facilities
Learn from the knowledge and expertise of experienced industry experts
Sport and Exercise Sciences at Lincoln is ranked in the top 10 the UK for teaching in the National Student Survey 2024
Through our excellent professional links with the fitness industry, and our engagement with employers, we're ensuring that market needs and employer expectations are considered throughout our curriculum.
Our students can undertake applied assessments and work placements in real-world settings to gain practical experience and a competitive edge when they graduate.
We have strong links with the local community and work closely with Lincoln City Football Club, Lincoln United, and Lincolnshire Cricket, as well as the Students’ Union, providing opportunities for students to offer coaching or sport science support to local teams.
The course was exactly what I was looking for and offered everything I needed to develop my skills to work in the sports industry.
Chris Farrell
BSc (Hons) Sport Development and Coaching and Project Manager for Indoor Rowing at British Rowing
The Human Performance Centre offers specialist laboratories feature modern equipment in order to undertake physiological and biomechanical assessments.
Our labs are equipped for both the teaching of students, academic research, and also outside consultancy with businesses and elite athletes.
Many of our courses have professional endorsements and industry qualifications embedded within them to provide you with the knowledge and experience that employers are looking for.
The programmes have been endorsed against rigorous criteria which represent employability standards for professional roles in the sport and physical activity sector.
This highlights how our content and assessment strategies are aligned to produce high-quality graduates ready for employment.
The University of Lincoln, Students’ Union, and Lincoln City FC have signed a new agreement to further our close collaboration, which includes coaching by Lincoln City professionals, in-depth performance analysis, off-pitch support and guidance, and much more.
Our students can study and carry out research in the University’s Human Performance Centre.
These specialist facilities enable you to learn the fundamental applications that underpin health and exercise science, and you can access equipment from the first week of study.
The dedicated practical and teaching spaces include physiology, biomechanics, and psychology laboratories, along with a specialist strength and conditioning suite and a sports therapy teaching space.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/opendaysandvisits/informalvisits:
The best way to find out what it is really like to live and learn at Lincoln is to visit us in person.
If you've not been able to visit us at an Open Day this year, you can still register your place at an Informal Visit Day for a smaller-scale experience of Lincoln.
You'll be able to attend a series of talks which introduce student life at Lincoln as well as a campus tour which will give you the chance to see some of our University-managed accommodation in person.
There will also be the opportunity to ask any questions you might have about studying at Lincoln.
Please check back soon for the latest updates and details.
For information on how to get to Lincoln, please visit our Getting to Lincoln webpage.
If you are travelling by car, we are afraid there is no guest parking available on weekdays.
However, there are plenty of pay-and-display car parks nearby.
The St Marks Car Park is just across the road from our Brayford Pool Campus.
If you are using a sat nav to find St Marks Car Park, use the postcode LN5 7EX .

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/opendaysandvisits/campustours:
We know it is important to visit us in-person to see Lincoln for yourself.
That's why we are planning a variety of opportunities for you to visit us and tour our campus.
Led by our friendly student ambassadors, each tour takes approximately 45-60 minutes, giving you plenty of time to take in our spectacular city centre campus, industry standard facilities, and purpose-built accommodation.
Tours run on selected dates, giving you plenty of time to explore the city of Lincoln before or after.
Book Your Tour
Because we offer a range of subjects at the University of the Lincoln, the student ambassador leading your tour is unlikely to be studying your course of interest.
However, you can still find out what studying your chosen course may be like by chatting to students currently on the course though our Unibuddy platform.
If you have a question about your application or specific qualifications, the best thing to do is contact our Enquiries Team who will be able to assist you.
We also offer campus tours for school and college groups.
If you are a member of staff looking to organise a tour for your students please email educationliaison@lincoln.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studentlife/accommodation/residencelifeteam:
To ease your transition to university and settle you in to your new place, our friendly Residence Life Team are here to help you make the most of your new home at Lincoln so that it can become so much more than just a place to study.
To assist you and provide any guidance you may need, our Residence Life Team are here to support you throughout your stay in University-managed accommodation are the first port of call in halls for any queries or personal matters you may have.
Whether you encounter an issue which relates to your accommodation, your studies or personal life, they can point you in the right direction of where you can receive support and are fully trained and employed by the University, so you will have peace of mind knowing that they're here just for you.
In addition to offering support and guidance, the team also run many free events and activities for students to take part in each month.
Take a look at their online programme of events for all those who live in University-managed accommodation, or catch up with their blog posts via www.residencelife.lincoln.ac.uk/ .
Current students can contact the Residence Life Team directly, every day between 6pm until midnight via email on ResLife@lincoln.ac.uk , call them on 01522 835550 or chat via Twitter using the handle @ResLifeLincoln, or via Facebook and Instagram using @UniLincolnResLife.
The University Health Service specialises in looking after students' health needs.
The clinical team includes a mixture of doctors, nurses, and other health professionals and offers a broad range of specialisms.
Students are strongly encouraged to register with this service or an alternative local surgery as soon as they enrol.
I struggle with anxiety but with the Residence Life Team, I am able to talk to people about how I feel and be able to share experiences as well as put my worries on hold for a couple of hours.
Our Student Life blog feature articles and videos produced by students at Lincoln offering you advice on everything from work-life balance and saving money, to getting the most out of your studies with a variety of study tips.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/internationalhub:
Access the digital copy of the International Student Handbook and slides from Welcome Week on our SharePoint.
You must be logged into your student account in order to access it.
International Student Hub SharePoint
The finance department can help you with tuition fee queries, accommodation fee queries, payment methods, payments plans, and general payment queries.
If you require advice, the Student Support & Advice Team and the SU Advice Centre are available to help you.
To help ease some of the uncertainty you may be feeling, the University of Lincoln and the Students' Union have created a dedicated hub which provides a range of helpful information and advice on how to manage your finances and the support available.
Within 21 days of enrolment your tuition fee balance needs to be cleared in full or you need to have set up an agreed payment plan.
If this is not complete then your study progression with the University may be affected as per the University General Regulations.
Tuition fees can be paid in full or by setting up an instalment plan online.
Instalments are due on the 15th of each month for a term of between two and nine months commencing in the month of enrolment.
How to Pay
In addition to a range of events to help you adjust to studying in the UK, we offer a range of help and support services for academic matters to help you settle in and make the most of your time at Lincoln.
The libraries have expert staff to help you find resources and support you with academic writing, statistical analysis, and referencing.
They also provide workshops and individual appointments.
Library Guide
Our Learning at Lincoln site is designed to help prepare and support you when joining your course at Lincoln.
You can find more about how learning in the UK works, how assessment works, and hear the experiences of our students.
Learning at Lincoln
At the University of Lincoln, we take great pride in placing our students at the heart of everything we do.
Our Student Support Centre is situated at the heart of our Brayford Pool Campus and is the first port of call for helping you to find the support you may need.
Our specialist teams offer free, impartial, and confidential advice and information on an array of topics - from fees, funding, and making payments, to housing, visas, and legal issues.
As soon as you have enrolled at the University, you will be able to register with our on-campus Health Centre and you can also seek specialist advice from our Student Wellbeing Centre.
The team includes student wellbeing advisors, mental health advisors, and counsellors who can provide advice and guidance in relation to disability, medical conditions, learning differences, and mental health.
Student Services Website
You will be allocated a Personal Tutor from your School.
Your Personal Tutor is a member of academic staff who will be your point of contact for academic issues and personal issues that impact on your ability to fully engage with your course.
They will help direct you to relevant teams as required.
More about Personal Tutors
Living in a new country can be an amazing experience, but sometimes you need bit bit more help with learning where to go.
Here you will find some resources to help you settle into life as a student in Lincoln.
Our Living in the UK guide can provide useful advice and information to help you plan your finances, both before you start your course at the University of Lincoln and during your studies.
Living in the UK Guide
Student Services and Lincolnshire Police have put together a safety guide to help keep you safe during your time in Lincoln.
Learn about local laws and what to do if you find yourself in need of help.
Safety Guide
Traveling by train in the UK is common, but may include some different etiquette than in your home country.
Familiarise yourself with UK train customs.
UK Train Travel
UK weather can change rapidly and is often a topic of conversation.
Know what to expect by familiarising yourself with each of the seasons.
Weather in Lincoln
Before purchasing a laptop or software please consult this guide and check what is provided by the University and if specific laptop specifications are suggested for your Programme.
IT Requirements
If you are looking for guidance on finding accommodation, you can visit our dedicated accommodation for international students pages.
Accommodation Guidance
If you are living in University managed accommodation, our ResLife Team provide you with opportunities to settle in, meet new people and have a great experience throughout the year.
Accommodation Support
Our Student Life blog hosts a range of helpful information and tips to help you settle in, all written by current students.
Read about the experiences of other students here at Lincoln.
Student Life Blog
The University of Lincoln is proud of its vibrant and diverse multicultural community and recognises the importance that faith, belief, values and spirituality play in the lives of many people.
Multi-Faith Chaplaincy
Our helpful guides can assist you with a range of common IT issues you may face when getting started at university, including multi-factor authentication, passwords, WiFi, and email.
Preparing you for your future career in the global graduate jobs market shapes your student experience from the day that you enrol.
Alongside our industry-engaged approach to teaching, we have a dedicated, award-winning Careers team to support you throughout your time at Lincoln and beyond You can access a wealth of resources on our Careers and Employability website, including a dedicated Careers Guide for International Students.
Your Student visa allows you to work up to 20 hours per week during term-time.
You can request a Certificate of Study through your OneUni account to show your employer.
Student Support Work Guide

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/alumnicommunity/studententerprise:
Do you have an idea for a business?
Do you like the idea of working for yourself?
At Student Enterprise, we’re passionate about supporting our students and graduates pursuing careers in self-employment and entrepreneurship.
If you’re looking to go into freelancing or keen to start a business, we’re here to support you in any way we can.
Businesses are born from ideas.
No matter how big or small, if you have an idea for a product or system to solve a common problem, this can be nurtured into an industry defining business.
Freelancing gives you the chance to pursue your passion, without being tied down to a single job.
Having the freedom that freelancing brings means that you can work with who you like, where you like and when you like.
It also offers you the chance to develop multiple sources of income from several clients.
Here at Student Enterprise, we’ve got everything you need to help grow your idea into a business.
Come to our workshops and events designed to support business founders.
Benefit from our partnerships with organisations such as Barclays Eagle Labs.
Get access to our tailored resources for start ups.
Find funding opportunities for your ideas from sources like our Growth Fund.
Access one to one mentoring to support your future.
Join one of our networks such as the Trailblazer Network.
Please note, our services, events and programmes are open to University of Lincoln students and graduates for up to three years after completing their studies.
Now open for applications
We are offering start-up grants of up to £500 to students and recent graduates of the University of Lincoln, aimed at helping those at the pre-start and early stage of their business with the initial funding that's often essential to start-ups and freelancers at the beginning of their journey.
We are thrilled to have partnered with Barclays Eagle Labs to provide access to their Barclays Eagle Labs Academy , a cutting edge initiative designed to support start-ups and scaleups across the UK.
Eagle Labs Academy is a digital learning platform designed to help pre and early start founders and freelancers to start and scale their businesses.
It offers bite-sized, accessible lessons on key aspect of launching and growing a business and allow you to learn at your own pace.
We’re so excited to introduce our new Trailblazer Network for University of Lincoln Student Enterprise supported businesses!
At the Trailblazer Network, our goal is to create a vibrant community of start-ups, providing a space to for them to connect and develop the knowledge and skills needed to succeed.
Free for all University of Lincoln students & graduates with a registered business!
Complete our Expression of Interest form for updates on our launch.
studententerprise@lincoln.ac.uk
01522 837200

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studentlife/accommodation/howtoapply:
If you have accepted Lincoln as your firm choice on UCAS for 2025 entry, you'll be able to make your accommodation application using our online booking system.
It is important that you are fully aware of all the information regarding accommodation payments, deadline dates for applying, the details of the contract you will sign, and the associated costs you will be responsible for when renting accommodation.
The Booking Portal for applicants who have accepted Lincoln as their firm choice on UCAS for 2025 entry is now open.
You may need to allow up 24 hours after accepting your offer before submitting an accommodation application for our systems to update.
You will need your 8-digit University of Lincoln Student ID, which you will have received in your academic offer.
It is also included in the email alert you will receive notifying you that applications for accommodation are open.
Login and select the ‘new application’ link in the top toolbar.
You'll then need to choose the application type, course type, session, and pathway before you can browse the accommodation.
Choose your favourite four options, in preference order, by clicking the ‘apply’ button beside your chosen development and then select the room type.
The next page enables you to enter 'further details' where you can inform us of any special requirements.
Unfortunately we cannot guarantee that we will be able to facilitate all requests.
If you believe you have additional requirements due to a disability or medical condition that will affect your accommodation allocation, please email studentwellbeing@lincoln.ac.uk separately to your application.
Review and check your choices and preferences on the ‘application summary’ screen before clicking 'submit'.
You will then be taken to another screen where you will need to accept our terms and conditions before you are able to submit your application.
The next screen will then confirm that you have successfully submitted your application.
Once you have submitted your application, you will then receive an offer of a room within five working days.
You will have five days to accept this offer and sign the accommodation contract, by ticking a box within the Booking Portal.
Please note that this offer will time out if it is not accepted within this time period.
Details on your room allocation (block, apartment, and room number) will be communicated via email following A Level results day.
Until then, you do not need to do anything further.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studentlife/accommodation/179highstreet:
Price per Week £191 - £199
Contract Lengths 44 Weeks
Location On Campus Location
Room Types En-suite/Studio
Available to: Undergraduate and Postgraduate
Ideally located between our Brayford Pool Campus and Lincoln High Street, this modern University-managed development is also neighbour to the University's Great Central Warehouse Library and the Lincoln Students' Union.
179 High Street comprises 282 ensuite bedrooms in shared apartments, each catering for between four and 16 students.
Each of the rooms are single occupancy with a three-quarter bed, fitted wardrobe, desk, and drawers.
Ensuite rooms include a shower, basin, and toilet.
Each of the apartments in this complex has a fully fitted kitchen that includes a cooker, fridge/freezer, microwave, kettle, television, dining area, iron, ironing board, and vacuum cleaner.
179 High Street also has 19 self-contained studios which include a three-quarter bed, fitted wardrobe, desk, and drawers storage.
There is a studio room specifically designed for students with disabilities.
Can't find what you're looking for?
Browse our FAQs .
Bills Utility bills covered
Insurance Contents insurance included
Security 24/7 security and CCTV
WiFi High-speed WiFi
Gym Gym membership included
Support Support from our Residence Life Team
Location Close to the city centre
Studio rooms Small number of studio rooms
Here you can take a look at the typical length of accommodation contracts, as well as typical payment options.
If you have accepted Lincoln as your firm choice on UCAS for 2025 entry, you can now apply for your accommodation through our online booking portal .
You may need to allow up to 24 hours after you have accepted your offer before making your application.
During your application, you'll be able to highlight any specific requirements you may have, such as room location preference, housemates, or whether you're looking to live with like-minded flatmates.
If you haven't already made a visit to campus to see our stunning accommodation options in person, why not book a visit?
You can find out more about how to book your visit on our Open Days and Visits page.
Browse our range of accommodation options available to students.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studentlife/accommodation/cygnetwharf:
Price per Week £191
Room Types En-suite
Available to: Undergraduate
Cygnet Wharf is on-campus accommodation that sits aside the picturesque Brayford waterfront, giving its occupants both outstanding views and easy access to all campus facilities.
The complex comprises three modern buildings of self-catered apartments, the majority of which house between 10 and 12 students.
These apartments are designed to offer students a traditional halls of residence experience in a modern environment.
In total there are 442 furnished ensuite bedrooms and some apartments have rooms specifically designed for students with disabilities.
Each apartment has a fully fitted kitchen including a cooker, fridge/freezer, microwave, kettle, television, dining area, iron, ironing board, and vacuum cleaner.
All rooms in Cygnet Wharf are single ensuite rooms and fully furnished with a three-quarter size bed, wardrobe, desk, and drawers.
En-suite rooms include a shower, basin, and toilet.
Leisure Close to the city centre
Location Waterfront location

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studentlife/accommodation/stmarks:
Price per Week £175 - £191
Contract Lengths 40, 44, or 51 Weeks
St Marks is the newest University-managed accommodation, situated close to our Brayford Pool Campus and just a short walk from the city centre .
With a large Morrisons supermarket opposite and a retail park nearby with shops such as Homesense and a Starbucks, students can easily do their regular shopping, iced coffee in hand.
St Marks has a friendly ‘student village’ community feel that makes it a popular choice year on year.
This is enhanced by the outdoor communal areas frequently used for studying and socialising in the warmer months.
In total, there are 1,372 rooms available, all en-suite, across 10 blocks with the average apartment hosting 10-12 single-occupancy bedrooms.
Each apartment has a fully fitted kitchen and all rooms are fully furnished with a three-quarter size bed, wardrobe, desk, and drawers.
Some apartments have rooms specifically designed for students with disabilities.
Shopping Close to shops and retail parks
Communal Areas Outdoor communal areas

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studentlife/accommodation/thegateway:
Price per Week £120 - £179
Contract Lengths 44 and 46 Weeks
The Gateway is a modern development located less than a minute away from our campus and city, offering a prime location for students looking to make the most of city living.
The complex comprises 519 rooms and includes en-suite bedrooms in cluster flats, studio apartments, and studio apartments with communal living rooms.
Each studio apartment contains its own kitchen, sleeping area, and en-suite bathroom.
The cluster flats offer six or seven en-suite bedrooms with a communal kitchen.
Location Close to shops and retail parks
Studio rooms Studio rooms with communal areas

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studentlife/accommodation/valentinecourt:
Price per Week £171 - £186
Contract Lengths 46 Weeks
Valentine Court is a University-managed development providing townhouse style apartments catering for between six and 13 students.
It is located to the south of the Brayford Pool Campus, approximately a seven-minute walk from the University.
The complex is next to Valentine Retail Park which houses shops such as TK Maxx and Asda Living, with a large Morrisons close by.
Valentine Court is made up of 70 apartments with a total of 469 furnished student bedrooms, all with en-suites comprised of a shower, basin, and toilet.
The single-occupancy bedrooms, which include three-quarter size bed, wardrobe, desk, and drawers, are arranged over three floors and residents share a spacious kitchen, dining, and lounge area on the ground floor.
The modern, well-equipped apartment style houses create a friendly atmosphere of communal living.
Valentine Court offers limited permit parking for an additional cost and for cars only.
Parking Permit parking options
The apartments at Valentine Court are a townhouse style, which makes it feel more like a house than a standard apartment.
It may sound strange, but another reason for choosing Valentine Court was the washing machines.
Having a washer in the flat is so handy and a lot cheaper.
Parking is the cherry on the cake.
You can pay for a permit and park your car outside your apartment, which is amazing!
Jake
Third Year, BA (Hons) Animation and Visual Effects

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/globalopportunities/studyatlincoln:
Situated in the heart of a beautiful and historic city, we are listed in the world’s top 150 universities in the Times Higher Education’s (THE) Young University Rankings 2024, and hold a five-star score overall in the QS Stars rating system of global universities.
Please see the below deadlines for receiving nominations and online application forms.
We are required to register exchange students for their courses prior to their arrival on campus.
Exchange Partner Institutions will be provided with a Nomination Form to submit prior to the deadlines.
Once we have received the student's information an application will be created in the system and an email will be sent to the student containing their login information.
*Most modules chosen by incoming exchange students do not require you to sit any examinations, but please check with your School before making travel arrangements.
You can find out more about Welcome Week, including Welcome Week timetables and how to enrol at https://welcomeweek.lincoln.ac.uk/international-students/ .
From the moment you arrive at the University of Lincoln, you will join a friendly and welcoming, close-knit academic community of staff and students, and have access to a range of support services throughout your time here.
Find out About Support
One of the UK's great historic cities, Lincoln is renowned for its fusion of old and new.
The combination of vibrant city centre and a historic Cathedral Quarter makes Lincoln a fantastic place in which to live and study.
Explore Lincoln
Based in the heart of Lincoln, our campus provides a modern student-centred community.
Based on the picturesque Brayford Pool waterfront, almost everything you'll need is either on campus or a short walk away.
We welcome thousands of members to our community each year and we benefit from sharing views and ideas from all around the globe.
Explore Our Community
Lincoln is proud to be home to world-class researchers making profound contributions to their subjects.
From developing new medical technologies to preserving rare architectural treasure, the work of our academics and students makes a rea difference.
Learn About Research
Our academic Schools are organised into two Colleges: The College of Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities and the College of Health and Science.
Within these we offer a wide variety of programmes.
Colleges and Schools
Global Opportunities Team University of Lincoln Brayford Pool Campus Lincoln LN6 7TS
go@lincoln.ac.uk
01522 835018

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/globalopportunities/globalopportunities:
Each year, many of our students go abroad to study, work, or volunteer.
Our carefully selected partner organisations from around the world offer a range of programmes, giving students the opportunity to create lifelong memories.
An international experience can boost a student's academic and personal development and help them gain a whole range of new skills, from problem solving to learning a new language.
Students who go abroad can improve their confidence, grow their independence, and potentially increase their employment prospects.
We offer global opportunities with over 40 partners across the globe who have been selected due to their academic and cultural benefits.
Students who go abroad often see improvements in their confidence, independence, and employment prospects.
Each year, the university bids for funding from the government's Turing Scheme, which provides financial support for international opportunities in education and training worldwide.
Eligible students will receive grant funding to support their expected travel and cost of living expenses.
Full details are provided specific to each opportunity and student.
Undergraduate students may participate in a Study Abroad programme for either a semester or a full year.
Participating students will experience different teaching and learning environments, explore diverse cultures, and enhance their independence and adaptability.
The University has a growing portfolio of international partners, enabling students to study in Europe, Australia, Canada, Japan, and the USA.
A summer opportunity is an excellent way for students to immerse themselves in a new culture and experience social, cultural, and academic exploration.
In previous years, students have had the chance to visit various destinations including Egypt, India, Malaysia, South Africa, and South Korea.
Each year, the University promotes available opportunities to students.
Some are subject-specific and others are more social and cultural in nature and open to all students.
External partner organisations also offer work, volunteering, and cultural opportunities.
Partners are selected based on robust criteria to ensure quality and value for money.
Summer opportunities

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/lincolncitypartnership:
From the start of the 2024 season, footballers at the University of Lincoln can look forward to an exciting new partnership with Lincoln City Football Club.
Our university men’s and women’s first teams will be selected, managed, and coached by professionals from the club.
From pre-season trials and training to post-match analysis, the Imps’ Academy specialists will support our student footballers with every element of their game with a new performance coaching programme.
The club will help recruit squads through a trials day, designing and delivering first-team training and overseeing touchline decisions on matchdays of each home fixture.
The agreement builds on established links between the University and the Imps.
The club employs many University of Lincoln graduate, while players and coaches benefit from access to university facilities and expertise through a variety of collaborations in teaching and research.
Coaching by experienced UEFA qualified coaches
Exposure to a competitive environment similar to that of professional football
Potential job opportunities during and post-graduation at Lincoln City
Off-pitch support and guidance in nutrition, strength and conditioning
An extended match programme in addition to university fixtures
Weronika Kruszyna, a sports therapy student, has recently been signed by Lincoln City FC Women's first team as a striker.
The University's partnership with the club will aim for players in the women’s first team at the University to have clear pathways through to professional football.
We are thrilled to be part of the collaboration with Lincoln City FC.
This is a complete game-changer for our talented student footballers.
Not only does it enhance our football programme, but it also provides our students with an invaluable opportunity to experience professional-level coaching and support.
James Brooks
Group Chief Executive Officer of Lincoln Students’ Union
Find out more about the partnership and the coaching available to our students from Lincoln City Academy coach, and recent University of Lincoln graduate, Isaac Rice.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/scholarshipsandbursaries/africascholarship:
The University of Lincoln’s Africa Scholarship is designed to help students from across Africa to access postgraduate level study at the University of Lincoln.
The Africa Scholarship is offered as a tuition fee discount against the cost of a postgraduate taught programme commencing in the 2025/26 academic year.
Scholarship Amount
The Africa Scholarship is valued at £4,000 - £5,000 and will be awarded to eligible students as a tuition fee discount during the first year of their studies.
Selection Criteria
In order to be eligible to receive the Africa Scholarship prospective students must meet the following criteria:
A £5,000 scholarship will automatically be awarded to students who have:
A £4,000 scholarship will automatically be awarded to students who have:
Please visit your country webpage for more detail regarding regional entry requirements that are equivalent to a 2:1 or 2:2.
If you’re eligible to receive the Africa Scholarship, you may also be eligible to receive a tuition fee discount of £1,000 - £1,500 through our Advance Full Payment Discount or Early Payment Discount.
To find out more information about eligibility criteria, please visit our webpage .
Additional Information
Further information regarding the awarding of international scholarships can be found within the University of Lincoln International Scholarship Terms and Conditions 2025-2026
Please note that University of Lincoln International Scholarships may be subject to change.
The University of Lincoln reserves the right to amend the above scholarship provision without notice.
For further information, please contact the International Office .

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/scholarshipsandbursaries/alumnischolarshipforpostgraduatestudy:
UK students who already hold an undergraduate degree (or equivalent qualification that leads to postgraduate study), Graduate Certificate, or Graduate Diploma at the University of Lincoln.
This scholarship applies to students commencing postgraduate study in academic year 2024/25 and 2025/26.
The scholarship is calculated to 15% for students starting in the 2024/25 academic year and 20% for those starting in the 2025/26 academic year, when they enrol on a University of Lincoln taught Master's or research programme (MSc, MA, MBA, MRes, MPhil, PhD).
Students studying online Master's programmes are eligible to receive an alumni scholarship of 10% of the tuition fees.
This scholarship will be offset at enrolment against the tuition fee payments due for each academic year of study.
*University of Lincoln alumni students enrolling on the Master of Architecture (Part 2), MSc Nursing with Registered Nurse – (Adult/Child/Mental Health), MSc Physiotherapy (Pre-registration), MSc Occupational Therapy (Pre-registration) or MSc Social Work programme will not be eligible to a scholarship as detailed above.
However, subject to eligibility, students will receive a £1,000 alumni scholarship payment, for each completed academic year of study, with part-time students eligible for a pro-rata payment.
For information on these scholarships please visit the associated course/scholarship page.
Why not see if we have a course that is right for you?
Take a look at our range of Postgraduate programmes .
We reserve the right to withdraw this offer at any time.
Further information regarding this scholarship can be found within the Terms and Conditions for the University Bursaries and Scholarships (PDF) .

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/scholarshipsandbursaries/blackburnbursary:
The Blackburn Bursary is for students under the age of 25 who are defined as a ‘care leaver.’
The Blackburn Bursary is a set amount of £1,500 paid to eligible students in two instalments for each completed level of study.
The first instalment of £500 is paid upon approval of application following enrolment.
The 2nd instalment of £1,000 is paid upon successful completion of the level of the programme enrolled.
- Students must be a ‘Home’ student, which is determined by the funding provider (e.g.
Student Finance England) and not the student status that University of Lincoln allocates to you.
- EU students and international students are not eligible.
- Students must be officially enrolled and studying a first degree at Undergraduate level.
- Students studying on a part-time basis, must have a course intensity of at least 25% of a full-time equivalent.
- Students must be under the age of 25.
- Students must have been in the care of, or have been given accommodation by, their local authority.
- Their time in care must have lasted at least 13 weeks.
- Their time in care must have ended after they turned 16.
- Students must not have returned to the care of their parent(s) prior to the first day of the first academic year of their course.
- Students must not have previously received the Blackburn Bursary for the same year of study.
Applications for a Blackburn Bursary must be made through the Student Funding Team in the Student Support Centre, who can be contacted by emailing studentfundingteam@lincoln.ac.uk
Please note that you cannot be awarded both the Blackburn Bursary and Foyer/Supported Housing Bursary.
The University of Lincoln have dedicated advisors to assist care leavers or care experienced students at the University – further information can be found here: Care leavers – Student Services
You can also find out more about how we support students from underrepresented backgrounds on our Equality of Opportunity webpage.
Tel: +44 (0)1522 837495 Email: studentfundingteam@lincoln.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/scholarshipsandbursaries/cheveningscholarships:
Chevening is the UK government’s international awards scheme aimed at developing global leaders.
Funded by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) and partner organisations, Chevening offers two types of award – Chevening Scholarships and Chevening Fellowships – the recipients of which are personally selected by British Embassies and High Commissions throughout the world.
Chevening offers a unique opportunity for future leaders, influencers, and decision-makers from all over the world to develop professionally and academically, network extensively, experience UK culture, and build lasting positive relationships with the UK.
For full details of how to apply for these fully-funded scholarships, please visit the official Chevening Scholarships website.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/scholarshipsandbursaries/chinaadvancedentryscholarships:
The University of Lincoln is delighted to offer China Advanced Entry Undergraduate Scholarships to eligible applicants who are directly entering onto level 2, or level 3, of an undergraduate programme in September 2025.
The China Advanced Entry Undergraduate Scholarship is valued at £1,000 and will be awarded to eligible students as a tuition fee discount for each year of an undergraduate programme at the University of Lincoln.
In order to be eligible to receive this scholarship prospective students must meet the following criteria:
In addition to meeting the above criteria, prospective students must have applied to the University of Lincoln prior to the deadline of Tuesday 26 August.
Many of our undergraduate programmes include the opportunity to take part in an industry placement year or study abroad placement year.
Students participating in one of these opportunities will not be eligible to receive the China Advanced Entry Undergraduate Scholarship for that particular period.
You do not need to apply for this scholarship.
You will automatically be considered for a China Advanced Entry Undergraduate Scholarship once you have submitted your application to study at the University of Lincoln.
If you’re eligible to receive the China Advanced Entry Undergraduate Scholarship, you may also be eligible to receive a tuition fee discount of £1,000 - £1,500 through our Advance Full Payment Discount or Early Payment Discount.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/scholarshipsandbursaries/chinascholarship:
The China Scholarship is valued at £4,000 - £5,000 and will be awarded to eligible students as a tuition fee discount during the first year of their studies.
In order to be eligible to receive the China Scholarship prospective students must meet the following criteria:
If you’re eligible to receive the China Scholarship, you may also be eligible to receive a tuition fee discount of £1,000 - £1,500 through our Advance Full Payment Discount or Early Payment Discount.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/scholarshipsandbursaries/egyptscholarship:
The University of Lincoln’s Egypt Scholarship is designed to help students from across Egypt to access postgraduate level study at the University of Lincoln.
The Egypt Scholarship is offered as a tuition fee discount against the cost of a postgraduate taught programme commencing in the 2025/26 academic year.
The Egypt Scholarship is valued at £4,000 - £5,000 and will be awarded to eligible students as a tuition fee discount during the first year of their studies.
In order to be eligible to receive the Egypt Scholarship prospective students must meet the following criteria:
If you’re eligible to receive the Egypt Scholarship, you may also be eligible to receive a tuition fee discount of £1,000 - £1,500 through our Advance Full Payment Discount or Early Payment Discount.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/scholarshipsandbursaries/europeanunionscholarship:
The University of Lincoln’s European Union Scholarship is designed to help students from across the European Union to access postgraduate level study at the University of Lincoln.
The European Union Scholarship is offered as a tuition fee discount against the cost of a postgraduate taught programme commencing in the 2025/26 academic year.
The European Union Scholarship is valued at £5,000 and will be awarded to eligible students as a tuition fee discount during the first year of their studies.
In order to be eligible to receive the European Union Scholarship prospective students must meet the following criteria:
If you’re eligible to receive the European Union Scholarship, you may also be eligible to receive a tuition fee discount of £1,000 - £1,500 through our Advance Full Payment Discount or Early Payment Discount.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/scholarshipsandbursaries/foyersupportedhousingbursary:
The Lincoln Foyer/Supported Housing Bursary is a set amount of £1000 paid to eligible students in 3 equal termly instalments.
Applications for a Lincoln Foyer/Supported Housing Bursary must be made through the Student Funding Team in the Student Support Centre.
Students in receipt of the Lincoln Blackburn Bursary are not eligible to receive the Lincoln Foyer/Supported Housing Bursary.
There is a short application form which students are required to complete.
Evidence will be needed to demonstrate when they lived in supported housing and any benefits received.
Please email studentfundingteam@lincoln.ac.uk for an application form.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/scholarshipsandbursaries/georgemajorbursaries:
The bursary is a set amount of £1,000 paid to eligible students.
Applicants must provide evidence of a life-limiting (shortening) condition; a life limiting condition is an incurable condition that will shorten a person's life, though they may continue to live an active life for many years.
This can be either:
Students must be enrolled on a Student Information System on a full-time or part-time University of Lincoln undergraduate programme; a postgraduate taught programme; or a postgraduate research programme.
Students must have a student status of Home on the Student Information System.
To apply, please contact Student Services, who can be contacted by emailing studentsupport@lincoln.ac.uk .
The closing date for applications is end of term 1, which is in December for autumn starters, and April for winter starters.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/scholarshipsandbursaries/hesslewoodchildrenstrust:
Applicants must complete a University of Lincoln Financial Assistance Funds – Term Time Fund application in order to be considered for this fund.
They must also supply evidence of schooling in the appropriate area.
Applications may be accepted from 7 October 2024 to 20 December 2024.
Successful applicants will be notified in January/February 2025.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/scholarshipsandbursaries/internationalalumnischolarship:
This scholarship is available for postgraduate taught and postgraduate research programmes commencing in September 2025.
The International Alumni Scholarship is valued at £2,000 and will be awarded to eligible students as a tuition fee discount for the first year of a postgraduate taught or postgraduate research programme at the University of Lincoln.
The scholarship will automatically be awarded to students who have already successfully completed a University of Lincoln programme of study.
If you’re eligible to receive the International Alumni Scholarship, you may also be eligible to receive a tuition fee discount of £1,000 - £1,500 through our Advance Full Payment Discount or Early Payment Discount.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/scholarshipsandbursaries/internationalundergraduatescholarships:
The University of Lincoln is delighted to offer lnternational Undergraduate Scholarships to eligible applicants joining an undergraduate programme in September 2025.
The International Undergraduate Scholarship is valued at £2,000 and will be awarded to eligible students as a tuition fee discount for each year of their undergraduate programme at the University of Lincoln.
To be eligible to receive this scholarship, students must meet the entry requirements for their intended Undergraduate Programme and submit their application to study at Lincoln prior to the deadline of Tuesday 26 August.
Students participating in one of these opportunities will not be eligible to receive the International Undergraduate Scholarship for that particular period.
Advanced entry students from China joining a full-time Undergraduate Programme at the University of Lincoln will not be eligible to receive the International Undergraduate Scholarship.
However, may be eligible to receive the China Advanced Entry Undergraduate Scholarship subject to meeting eligibility criteria.
Students joining a Foundation Year or International Year One programme will be entitled to receive the scholarship when they move onto their main programme.
Students do not need to apply for this scholarship.
You will automatically be considered for the International Undergraduate Scholarship once you have submitted your application to study at the University of Lincoln.
If you’re eligible to receive the International Undergraduate Scholarship, you may also be eligible to receive a tuition fee discount of £1,000 - £1,500 through our Advance Full Payment Discount or Early Payment Discount.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/scholarshipsandbursaries/lincolnalumnimasterofarchitecturescholarship:
This Scholarship applies to students enrolling on the Master of Architecture (part two) programme in academic year 2025/26.
The University of Lincoln Alumni Master of Architecture Scholarship is calculated at £1,000 and will be paid for each year of study.
Part-time students will receive the scholarship on a pro rata basis.
There is no need to apply, eligible students will receive this scholarship upon enrolling for the Master of Architecture programme.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/scholarshipsandbursaries/lincolnalumnihealthandsocialcarescholarship:
£1000 will be paid directly to the student for each year of study for each completed academic year of study, with part-time students eligible for a pro-rata payment.
You will have previously completed an undergraduate degree (or equivalent qualification that leads to postgraduate study), Graduate Certificate or Graduate Diploma at the University of Lincoln, confirmed by a University of Lincoln Board of Examiners.
You are subject to tuition fees of £9,535 per year for Home or £18,400 for International (pro-rata for part-time studies)
You will be enrolled on the University’s Student Management System on either the MSc Nursing with Registered Nurse (Adult/Child/Mental Health), MSc Physiotherapy (Pre-registration), MSc Occupational Therapy (Pre-registration), or MSc Speech and Language Therapy (Pre-registration).
All tuition fees and payments due to the University in relation to any previous study have been paid in full.
Please contact admissions@lincoln.ac.uk for further details.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/scholarshipsandbursaries/medicinebursary:
This is currently an open bursary.
The on-going availability of this bursary will be dependant on the funds available and will be reviewed each year.
The bursary is offered at a value of up to £2500 per year for up to a period of 5 years (any extension to this will be at the discretion of the School and based on available funding).
The bursary offer will be dependent on the number of eligible students and the funding available in any given academic year.
Applicants for this bursary must:
Applications for this bursary should be made after students have commenced on the programme.
An application form will be sent to eligible students from the Lincoln Medical School administration office.
Applications will be reviewed, endorsed, and the outcome confirmed in writing.
If successful, the donors providing the funds will be informed and beneficiaries may be invited to meet with them.
If eligibility is confirmed, the bursary will be paid automatically, in one instalment by bank transfer for each year that the student is eligible for a payment.
This will usually take place in Semester 2 of each year.
You will receive this payment via the University of Nottingham.
The bursary will be payable subject to satisfactory attendance and academic engagement to the course during the first semester.
For further information regarding scholarships and bursaries, visit the University of Nottingham scholarship and bursaries pages.
For information regarding tuition fees, visit the University of Nottingham fees and finance pages .

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/scholarshipsandbursaries/southasiascholarship:
The University of Lincoln’s South Asia Scholarship is designed to help students from across Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka to access postgraduate level study at the University of Lincoln.
The South Asia Scholarship is offered as a tuition fee discount against the cost of a postgraduate taught programme commencing in the 2025/26 academic year.
The South Asia Scholarship is valued at £1,000 - £3,000 and will be awarded to eligible students as a tuition fee discount during the first year of their studies.
In order to be eligible to receive the South Asia Scholarship prospective students must meet the following criteria:
A £3,000 scholarship will automatically be awarded to students who have:
A £1,000 scholarship will automatically be awarded to students who have:
If you’re eligible to receive the South Asia Scholarship, you may also be eligible to receive a tuition fee discount of £1,000 - £1,500 through our Advance Full Payment Discount or Early Payment Discount.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/scholarshipsandbursaries/southeastasiascholarship:
The University of Lincoln’s South East Asia Scholarship is designed to help students from across South East Asia to access postgraduate level study at the University of Lincoln.
The South East Asia Scholarship is offered as a tuition fee discount against the cost of a postgraduate taught programme commencing in the 2025/26 academic year.
The South East Asia Scholarship is valued at £4,000 - £5,000 and will be awarded to eligible students as a tuition fee discount during the first year of their studies.
In order to be eligible to receive the South East Asia Scholarship prospective students must meet the following criteria:
If you’re eligible to receive the South East Asia Scholarship, you may also be eligible to receive a tuition fee discount of £1,000 - £1,500 through our Advance Full Payment Discount or Early Payment Discount.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/scholarshipsandbursaries/sportsscholarship:
The University of Lincoln is committed to raising the standard of university sport and a bursary scheme has been established to support athletes in their pursuit of excellence.
The bursary scheme will provide access to funding to assist athletes in their development and aims to realise each athlete's potential both as a students and as an elite sports performer.
The Sports Scholarship is valued at up to £1,000 per year.
In order to be eligible for the Sports Bursary students must first apply.
Applications will be assessed by a panel and successful applicants will be notified.
Athletes who are eligible to apply and who may be entitled to bursary support must meet the following criteria:
For sports people meeting the criteria there is up to £1,000 per year available.
In addition to this they will receive additional benefits that include:
As a bursary student you will be required to adhere to the following processes:
Applicants for the bursary can be submitting by completing the Sports Bursary Scheme Application Form and returning this to Dr Thomas Gee at tgee@lincoln.ac.uk .
The deadline for applications for 2024 entrants is 5pm Tuesday 12 November 2024.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/scholarshipsandbursaries/turkeyscholarship:
The University of Lincoln’s Turkey Scholarship is designed to help students from across Turkey to access postgraduate level study at the University of Lincoln.
The Turkey Scholarship is offered as a tuition fee discount against the cost of a postgraduate taught programme commencing in the 2025/26 academic year.
The Turkey Scholarship is valued at £4,000 - £5,000 and will be awarded to eligible students as a tuition fee discount during the first year of their studies.
In order to be eligible to receive the Turkey Scholarship prospective students must meet the following criteria:
If you’re eligible to receive the Turkey Scholarship, you may also be eligible to receive a tuition fee discount of £1,000 - £1,500 through our Advance Full Payment Discount or Early Payment Discount.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/scholarshipsandbursaries/universityoflincolnscholarship:
Students who are in receipt of a full or partial Maintenance Loan and have a household income below the relevant threshold specified in the eligibility criteria will be awarded a scholarship of £500 for each year (up to three years) of study.
Each award of £500 will be paid in three instalments across the academic year, subject to satisfactory attendance.
You do not need to make an application for the University of Lincoln Scholarship.
We use the assessment carried out by your funding authority in order to ascertain the household income levels which determine the amount of scholarship you are awarded.
In order for us to see this data, when you apply for your student finance you and your sponsors must allow their information to be shared.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/scholarshipsandbursaries/usascholarship:
The University of Lincoln’s USA Scholarship is designed to help students from across the United States of America to access postgraduate level study at the University of Lincoln.
The USA Scholarship is offered as a tuition fee discount against the cost of a postgraduate taught programme commencing in the 2025/26 academic year.
The USA Scholarship is valued at £5,000 and will be awarded to eligible students as a tuition fee discount in the first year of their studies.
In order to be eligible to receive the USA Scholarship, prospective students must meet the following criteria:
If you’re eligible to receive the USA Scholarship, you may also be eligible to receive a tuition fee discount of £1,000 - £1,500 through our Advance Full Payment Discount or Early Payment Discount.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/scholarshipsandbursaries/thevicechancellorsscholarship:
Who is it for?
The Vice-Chancellor’s Scholarship is open to applicants who are studying at a University of Lincoln overseas partner institution.
The scholarship, which is valued at 100% of tuition fees for one year of undergraduate study, will be awarded to applicants who demonstrate the highest levels of academic, personal, or extracurricular endeavour, and a strong commitment to their field of study.
Eligibility and How to Apply
In order to apply for the Vice-Chancellor’s Scholarship, students must be studying at one of the University’s overseas partner institutions and have an offer of a place to join the University of Lincoln, through advanced entry, onto an undergraduate programme in September 2025.
To be eligible to receive the scholarship, students must have achieved a first-class or equivalent grade in their undergraduate studies.
In exceptional circumstances, scholarship applicants with a 2:1 or equivalent will be considered on a case-by-case basis, where notable professional achievement is evidenced within the scholarship application form.
Please visit your country webpage for more detail regarding regional entry requirements that are equivalent to a first-class or 2:1.
The application deadline for this scholarship has now passed.
The Selection Process
The University of Lincoln’s Vice-Chancellor’s Scholarship is competitive and will be awarded to applicants who demonstrate a strong commitment to their studies and the highest levels of academic, personal, or extracurricular endeavour within their scholarship application form.
The University endeavours to notify students of the outcome of their scholarship application within 10 working days of the deadline.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/applicantsandofferholders/offerguide:
If you have received an offer to study with us at the University of Lincoln – congratulations!
We look forward to welcoming you to our friendly academic community.
When we make applicants an offer to study with us, we’ll send them detailed information about the conditions of the offer.
Below you’ll find more information on the types of offers we may make, and some examples of typical offers.
If you’re applying through UCAS, you can track the status of your application and any offers received in UCAS Hub.
We have three types of offers for applications to our undergraduate courses.
Contextual offers are one of the ways we remove the barriers to higher education, ensuring that we have fair access for all students regardless of background and personal experiences.
To make it fairer, we consider the information you give us on your UCAS form about your personal circumstances and the impact these might have on your qualifications when we make a decision on your application.
For 2025 entry, we will take into account the following information when reviewing your application:
If you meet our general criteria for a contextual offer, we will ask you to achieve one grade lower than the standard entry requirements for the majority of our undergraduate degree courses.
The grades must be achieved from a minimum of two full A Levels or equivalent.
For example, if you are studying A Levels and the requirement is to achieve 112 UCAS points, a contextual offer would ask you to achieve 104 UCAS points, a grade difference of achieving BBC to BCC.
If you are studying a BTEC Extended Diploma and the requirement is to achieve Distinction, Distinction, Merit, a contextual offer would ask you to achieve Distinction, Merit, Merit.
If you are applying to a course that has any subject specific requirements, these will still need to be achieved as part of the standard entry criteria.
You don’t need to do anything extra to receive a contextual offer — please apply to us through UCAS and if you meet our eligibility criteria you will be automatically considered for a contextual offer.
You will need to be a Home (UK) fee paying applicant.
Contextual offers only apply to full-time undergraduate programmes.
Foundation programmes are excluded.
Schools that have entered into our Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) partnership will be eligible for a reduction in tariff equal to that provided by our contextual offers.
A conditional offer means that your place is subject to you meeting certain conditions, usually based on upcoming exam results.
For example, if you are currently studying for A Levels, International Baccalaureate, T Levels, or a BTEC National Diploma, we will ask that you achieve specific grades.
Some courses may have additional requirements, like an enhanced DBS check.
The University of Lincoln may make an unconditional offer if you already have your exam results and meet the course entry criteria.
Even if you've already got your qualifications and have met the academic requirements, depending on your course, you might still need to complete a DBS or occupational health check, provide proof of your results, or meet other specific non-academic requirements.
Below are some examples of offers we may make.
You can find detailed entry requirements for each programme on our course pages, so please check these carefully for any additional subject specific criteria.
For A Levels, a typical offer may be “A minimum of 112 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of two A Levels or equivalent”.
This is the same as achieving BBC in your A Levels, but we also accept a variation such as ABC.
If two A Levels are successfully achieved, we will also consider your results from other level three qualifications such as the EPQ.
For a BTEC Level 3 Extended Diploma, a typical offer may be “Distinction, Merit, Merit (DMM) or an equivalent grade combination." DMM equals a total of 112 UCAS Tariff points.
BTEC Level 3 Diploma can be considered in lieu of two A Levels against our general entry requirements and the BTEC Level 3 Subsidiary Diploma in lieu of one A Level.
With a mix of A Levels and BTEC qualifications a typical offer may be “A minimum of 112 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of two A Levels or equivalent”.
If two level three qualifications (such as one A Level and a BTEC Level 3 Diploma) are achieved, we will also consider your results from additional level three qualifications such as an EPQ.
Accepting your offer is simple.
After receiving all of your offers, choose ‘Reply to your offers’ on the 'Your Choices' section of your UCAS Hub, and select your 'firm' and 'insurance' choices.
You can find a wealth of helpful information about how to respond to your offers and the types of replies you can make on the UCAS website .
If you receive your last decision on or before 14 May 2025, your reply date is 5 June 2025 (except if you're using UCAS Extra to find a place).
If you receive your last decision on or before 17 July 2025, your reply date is 23 July 2025 (including Extra choices).

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/unibuddy:
Deciding what and where to study is a big decision.
At Lincoln, you can get insights from your peers by connecting with our current students via Unibuddy.
Unibuddy allows you to message to one of our friendly student ambassadors to ask any questions you might have.
If you decide Lincoln is the right choice for you and you are made an offer to study with us, you can also use our community area to start meeting your potential coursemates before you enrol.
Unibuddy Community is a dedicated space for you to connect with other offer holders from your chosen course, start chatting with potential housemates, and make friends with students with similar interests before you arrive.
Register with our Unibuddy platform and send a message to one of our friendly student ambassadors — they’re here to help.
Our Unibuddies can help with everything else — and it takes just a minute to create an account!
Unibuddy Community provides a safe, official space for offer holders to meet and get to know other new students before arriving at Lincoln.
Through Unibuddy Community, you can meet other people studying your course, discuss shared interests and hobbies, learn more about Lincoln, and find others living in or near your chosen accommodation.
You will receive an invite by email shortly after receiving an offer from us, but you can also sign up with the link below using the email address on your application.
Take a look at our Unibuddy blogs where you can find out more about the experiences of our students at Lincoln.
They are also packed with top tips and advice for living away from home and making the most of your time at university.
If you have any questions about using Unibuddy Community, please read our frequently asked questions below.
Unibuddy Community provides a safe, official space for you to meet and get to know other new students before you arrive at Lincoln.
Through Unibuddy Community, you can:
You can access Unibuddy by mobile app or in your internet browser.
When you first access Unibuddy Community, you will be asked to create an account using the email address you have used throughout your application to study at Lincoln.
If you have already created a Unibuddy account with this email, you can sign in using your existing password.
The Unibuddy Community has been created to provide a safe space for you to meet and interact with other new students also joining Lincoln at the same time as you.
Chats are monitored for safeguarding and data security.
At the University of Lincoln, we are One Community .
To ensure everyone is able to enjoy Unibuddy Community, when you log into the platform you are asked to agree to the following rules:
By logging onto the community and joining the chat, you agree with the rules listed above.
If you break one of the rules above, you may be removed from the Unibuddy Community platform.
If you see any content that you find inappropriate or that breaks the agreed set of rules for platform use, please let us know at enquiries@lincoln.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/applicantsandofferholders/resultsdayguide:
We know that results day can be a busy time, so to answer any questions you may have about what to do next, we have pulled together a simple guide to navigating the day.
Whatever happens on the day, the University of Lincoln is here to help.
Plan for different outcomes
Do your research on different options
Check where and when to get your results
Have important phone numbers prepared
Be ready with your UCAS ID number
Get support from family and friends
It is important to familiarise yourself with different application statuses ready for result day.
This will help you understand your position in the UCAS application process and enable you make decisions about what you want to do.
Congratulations, you have achieved the conditions of your offer and you have been accepted!
Your insurance choice has automatically been declined so just keep an eye out for details about your next steps.
If you are awaiting confirmation, this mean that UCAS is waiting to know if you've met the conditions of your offer and have been accepted.
It can take up to 24 hours for your application to be updated.
You may need to send details of your results if asked for them.
This can be because you’ve declined your existing offers or haven’t met the conditions of your firm and insurance choices.
You can now start to look for Clearing places and begin to contact them directly to see if they have a place available for you.
Clearing is a great opportunity to secure a place at Lincoln on your dream course.
Take a look at our Clearing webpage to find out more about the process, search our course vacancies, and learn about your next steps.
You have decided that you would like to defer your place to next year, you will need to contact us directly to see if this is possible.
Our Admissions Team can be contacted by calling +44 01522 437530 .
If you have decided that you do not wish to go to university in this cycle and are holding an unconditional place as your firm choice you will be able to use the, 'Decline Your Place', option to withdraw from your offers.
Remember, this cannot be undone.
If you would like to study a different course to what you have an offer for with us, then give us a call to discuss your options.
Our Admissions Team can be contacted on +44 01522 437530
If you have decided you would like to go to your insurance choice instead, you will need to contact them to check availability.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/parentsguardiansandcarers/yourapplicationjourney:
Our step-by-step guide to help you support your young person when applying for a course at the University of Lincoln.
Before applying, it’s important to visit a university to get a real feel for what it might be like to study there.
Make time to explore the city to see if it’s somewhere they can picture themselves living.
Applications for full-time courses are made through UCAS.
These can usually be submitted from September of the year before study begins.
Keep checking UCAS Hub for an offer or any invitations to interview.
Once they’ve received an offer, they’ll need to reply and choose their firm and insurance (first and second) choices.
Find out more about the different types of offers that can be made, how to reply, and key deadlines.
Accommodation applications at Lincoln usually open in November.
They'll be able to apply for accommodation on our website once they’ve received and accepted an offer from us as their first choice on UCAS.
Once they have received an offer, they will be invited to an Offer Holder Day where they can experience their subject through a range of exciting subject-specific activities.
Student finance applications usually start in the spring of the year they will start their studies.
Visit www.gov.uk/student-finance for full details.
A range of financial support information is available on our website.
Clearing opens in early July each year and is another opportunity to secure a place at Lincoln..
A Level results day is in mid-August and is when most students get confirmation of their place at university.
Welcome week at Lincoln usually starts in mid-September and we'll be in touch with all of the important information needed to prepare them for the start of their studies.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/outreach/beinspired:
Activities and Events
Designed for small groups of 15-25 students, our Be Inspired programme is all about inspiring your post-16 students.
Under the guidance of academic experts, they can explore a subject area they are interested in and discover the study options available to them, helping them to make informed decisions when it comes to applying for university.
Running from 9.30am until 2.30pm, these free events offer so much more than just a taster session.
Students can get a feel for a subject area, test-driving a selection of degree programmes within a particular area, and use our industry-standard facilities.
Spaces to each event are capped, so we recommend booking early.
Students can test-drive a range of degree programmes
Experiences which add value to university applications
Practical on-campus sessions place students in modern facilities with experts
An opportunity for students to discover career paths associated with subjects
Spanning nearly 40 different subject areas and incorporating 70 different degree programmes, there's a wide range of Be Inspired Days to choose from.
Our subject areas currently include: business, sciences, sport, engineering, computing, law, health and care, animal sciences, film and media, English, social and political sciences, drama, theatre, performance, design, and architecture.
To book a Be Inspired Day, simply select from the upcoming dates below.
You can contact our friendly Schools and Colleges Team if you have any enquiries by emailing at beinspired@lincoln.ac.uk , or by calling 01522 886644 .

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/outreach/workshops:
Our interactive workshops are designed to get your students talking and thinking about university.
Designed for groups of up to 30, we have carefully crafted these sessions to help your students develop the skills they can use in the classroom and across the application process.
We have these sessions as off-the-shelf options we can deliver.
However, if you're after something a little different then don't hesitate to get in touch with your Student Recruitment Account Officer to chat about how we can make something that suits your students.
Start your students' post-16 journey the right way with these workshops designed to build their confidence in the fundamentals of further education and making positive decisions about their future.
Intended for year 12 and level 3 year 1 students, this presentation aims to give students the tools needed to help them get the best out of their post-16 journey.
From learning how to define a topic, gather information, and review resources to support an essay, this workshop aims to help students with their technique.
This workshop will give details on how to make the most of study sessions while at university, including how to conduct independent study outside of lectures.
As key features of university study, this workshop will introduce tools needed for students to implement time management and note-taking skills to enhance their studies.
This grouping of workshops are ideal for students who are starting their higher education journey.
We have collected our best tips and insider knowledge to help your students navigate the application process.
These talks also pair really well with a visit to our campus, so students can see what a university looks like.
Students can learn about the life-changing benefits of higher education, from studying a subject they love to opening up exciting career options.
There are so many courses out there to study, and this workshop helps your students navigate these options and find what's right for them.
Open days are one of the most important things students can do when choosing a university, they're also incredibly busy.
This workshop gives your students tips to help them get everything they need from the day.
Personal statements, the most daunting part of the application process for many students.
In this workshop, we teach students how to create a winning application.
No one likes an interview, but this workshops is designed to help your students create a great first impression and show their excitement for their chosen course.
The application has been submitted and offers are coming in.
This set of workshops help your students to start making the transition to university.
This presentation offers students advice on what to do after submitting their university application - from applying for accommodation choices to attending Offer Holder Days.
We understand funding plays an important part in the decision to go to university.
This session will provide all the student finance guidance needed to help your students make informed choices.
This session will give insight into how students can prepare for, and effectively budget their finances during studies so they can get the best out of their available funds.
Being a student is about so much more than just studying.
Hear from current students on being a student with us, from independent living, to socialising, and exploring all the city has to offer.
If you have something in mind which we don't yet offer, get in touch with us to chat about we can help you.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/outreach/visitsandevents:
Being on our beautiful Brayford Pool Campus in the heart of Lincoln is one of the best ways your students can get a feel for what university is like.
That is why we run a variety of events throughout the year to showcase the very best of what we have to offer.
Your students can chat to current Lincoln students and academics, explore our modern, city centre campus, and even try out some of the industry-standard facilities we have.
These events cater to a range of audiences, from Year 10 through to Access to Higher Education cohorts, so we're sure you'll find something for your students.
Our Undergraduate Open Days offer the chance to get a real sense of what it’s like to study with us and discover why thousands of students fall in love with Lincoln each year.
Feel free to download, print, and display our Open Day poster to let your students know of all our upcoming Open Day dates.
You tell us the what you want and when, and we do the rest.
Whether it's something subject specific or an all rounder to introduce your students to higher education, we can create a day that leaves your students excited about university.
Saturday 27 September 9am-3pm
With campus tours, accommodation viewings, and access to academics from all of our courses, Open Days are the best way to discover what's great about Lincoln.
Our weekday event on Friday 4 July has been designed with schools in mind.
Running 9am-3pm, you can book bespoke talks and tours as well as giving your students the full Open Day experinece.
Aimed at students in Year 10, Prepare for Your Future events give students an insight into university at a key moment when they are preparing to do their GCSEs.
With interactive workshops throughout the day, students can find out what a degree is, the benefits of studying at higher education, and even have a go at creating their own course.
To top it all off, they can also take a tour of our buzzing campus.
We're just a one-hour drive from cities such as Sheffield, Nottingham, and Hull; on a direct train line to London, and only a short way off of the A1, making us an ideal choice for a visit.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/abouttheuniversity/sustainability/sustainabledevelopmentgoals:
The University of Lincoln supports the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
As a University created by its community for its community to reduce inequalities, we understand the vital role education and scholarship play in ensuring that in our rapidly-changing world, no one is left behind.
The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals are an urgent call for action to tackle some of the world's most pressing problems.
They recognise that ending poverty and other deprivations must go hand-in-hand with strategies that improve health and education, reduce inequality, and spur economic growth – all while tackling climate change and working to preserve our oceans and forests.
Find out more about how we are supporting the United Nations' 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development by clicking on the individual Sustainable Development Goals icons below.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/researchatlincoln/agri-foodtechnology:
By focusing on improving productivity, efficiency, and sustainability, r esearchers at the University of Lincoln are developing new approaches that are having a major impact across the food chain.
Working closely with industry partners to apply research in real-life settings, supporting industry needs.
Progressing high-impact, food-sector-focused research designed to advance the industry at all points in the supply chain.
Providing a cross-disciplinary doctoral training programme supporting innovative research in AI and sustainable agri-food.
The world’s first global centre of excellence in agricultural robotics supporting innovation and technical advancement.
The University of Lincoln, in collaboration with leading partner institutions – University of Aberdeen, Queen’s University Belfast and University of Strathclyde – has successfully secured £10.9m in funding from UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) to establish SUSTAIN, a transformative Centre for Doctoral Training.
Bringing together the expertise and resources of four academic institutions, SUSTAIN will provide a cross-disciplinary, multi-institution doctoral training programme to support innovative research in the application of Artificial Intelligence (AI) to sustainable agri-food.
It will cover technical and social science aspects of AI, alongside training in plant, animal and/or biosciences, tailored to individual students’ needs and interests.
The University has been awarded the prestigious Queen’s Anniversary Prize for its work supporting the success and sustainability of the UK’s food and farming industries.
The award, which is the highest National Honour in UK further and higher education, was presented to Vice Chancellor Professor Neal Juster at a special ceremony held at Buckingham Palace.
Discover more about the impactful research and innovative studies that are taking place at the University of Lincoln.
A new partnership led by the University of Lincoln to develop a globally recognised agri-tech innovation cluster in the East of England has received a major national funding award from Research England.
Read the Full Story
Work has started on a new research facility at the University's Riseholme Park Campus, enabling new industry collaboration and opportunities for the UK’s food and farming sector.
Lincoln Agri-Robotics has received another major national accolade, winning a prestigious UK Research and Innovation AI and Robotics Award.
The University of Lincoln offers a number of undergraduate and postgraduate courses that are an integral part of our focus on Agri-food Technology.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/researchatlincoln/netzero:
As a University, we recognise our responsibility to make meaningful contributions towards reducing carbon emissions, preserving the environment, and creating a sustainable future for generations to come.
Our research is now focused firmly on environmental sustainability, and our aim is to be recognised for our local and global impact and leadership in the transition to net zero.
We are committed to producing impactful research that informs policy, shapes industry practice, and helps to accelerate the transition to a low-carbon future.
Our research portfolio spans a wide range of disciplines, including renewable energy, sustainable agriculture, law and social policy, and the circular economy, and we are also developing a clear offer to support local, national, and international organisations and businesses to meet their net zero and biodiversity goals.
A new project, led by a team of materials chemistry scientists from the University of Lincoln and involving a global consortium of academic and industrial collaborators, aims to redefine the production of lithium batteries by introducing a new, low carbon technology.
Addressing the physical, social, environmental, and political causes and drivers of climate variations.
With a clear focus on improving productivity, efficiency, and sustainability through innovation.
Progressing high-impact food sector focused research designed to advance the industry at all points in the supply chain.
Addressing the most urgent and immediate threats to the resilience of human-environment systems.
Exploring catchments and coasts, which are critically important to understanding the outcomes of climate change and human impact.
We recognise how important it is to work with business expertise to deliver solutions that reduce carbon emissions, promote sustainable practices, and drive innovation in our region and beyond.
For example, our National Centre for Food Manufacturing is collaborating with Princes Group Ltd on a Knowledge Transfer Partnership, bringing in expertise to develop a more fundamental scientific understanding of the food canning process, while in our School of Architecture and the Built Environment, a Carbon LEAF team of specialist architects, building physicists, BREEAM assessors, and experts offer a range of support to businesses undertaking low carbon construction projects.
Working in collaboration with global retailer Tesco, our researchers have built an imitation supermarket in a bid to tackle the impact of mass refrigeration on the UK’s carbon footprint.
The Refrigeration Research Centre is the first facility of its kind in the world, harnessing cutting-edge technology and precisely modeling the essential dynamics of a typical supermarket.
We’re also the proud educational partner to Yorkshire Energy Park , a next generation energy and technology business park that will drive economic growth, support the local community, and help position the Humber at the forefront of the global transition to net zero.
A new study, led by the University of Lincoln and involving a group of international scientists and experts, has revealed that global climate change-related rises in sea levels could be better predicted by gaining a clearer understanding of the Antarctic and Greenland ice sheets.
Meet PhD student Daniel Akrofi, who is currently pursuing doctoral research in international law and global governance at Lincoln, exploring a number of sustainability issues across the full lifecycle of plastics to analyse the law around global plastic pollution.
A new study, involving a coastal geography expert from the University of Lincoln, makes a call for urgent action to prevent the widespread loss of Mediterranean coastal marshes.
The University has been awarded a £5m Leverhulme International Professorship grant and will welcome renowned materials scientist Professor Len Barbour to help with the push towards net zero.
The ‘Reverse Coal' project, taking place at the Lapwing Estate, a 5,000-acre site near Doncaster, is pushing a shift to indoor farming using a sustainable biomass fuel source as its power.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/researchatlincoln/historyandheritage:
Utilising a range of exceptional and unique local resources, including the International Bomber Command Centre, Lincoln Cathedral Wren Library, the Tennyson Research Centre, and museums, collections, and archives, our researchers are engaged in the study and interpretation of the past, exploring new ways in which history and heritage can transform lives and communities around the world.
By bringing together and sharing expertise from across the University and beyond, we are able to deliver cutting-edge creative, cultural, and historical research activities that cover a wide range of themes, from medieval studies, conservation, and military history, to heritage management, digitalisation, and the critical interpretation of places and traditions.
Thousands of objects in our museums were brought to this country as a result of the expanding British Empire, but we still need to uncover the histories of how such material was collected.
Through extensive archival research and object study, Dr Sarah Longair, Associate Professor in Humanities and Heritage, is attempting to do just that.
Featuring academics, archivists, librarians, and researchers with interests in the medieval and early modern period.
Taking an interdisciplinary approach to exploring the history, culture, and literature of the long nineteenth century.
Bringing together a group of scholars who share research interests in international, transregional, and global studies.
Providing a deeper understanding of the visitor economy in areas such as tourism, hospitality, heritage, events, and leisure.
The Centre's Digital Archive has collected personal stories of those caught in the bombing during World War Two.
Formed to coordinate research activities in conservation, history, and science in relation to the heritage sector.
A forum for those teaching, researching, or working in archives and the heritage sector more broadly.
Critical heritage considers places, pasts, and traditions in contemporary life alongside current concerns about conservation.
The University of Lincoln has developed strong relationships with the wider scholarly and professional community, including the International Bomber Command Centre , Lincoln Cathedral Library and Archives, the Lincoln Record Society, Royal Historical Society, The Historical Association, Historic England, British Archaeological Association, and the International Society for the Study of Medievalism.
These collaborations and partnerships are helping to strengthen our research community, which continues to offer dynamic approaches to the study of history and heritage, in local, national, and international contexts.
The University is home to Lincoln Conservation, a research and consultancy centre specialising in the conservation and restoration of the interior and exterior features of listed and historic buildings.
It has worked with high-profile clients, including the National Trust, English Heritage, and the V&A Museum.
Meet PhD student Francesca Cannon, whose doctoral research is focusing on the roles, relationships, and impact of three queens who were the second wives of kings in the late thirteenth and early fourteenth centuries.
Professor Carenza Lewis has been a presenter on the popular Time Team TV series and has been spearheading a range of innovative research projects that explore the public benefits of participation in heritage.
The University's Centre for Culture and Creativity has delivered its second year of support for the region’s creative sector as part of its Arts Council England National Portfolio Organisation (NPO) status.
The University has been awarded £1.7m to investigate solutions to the impact of climate change in a region of the world that is experiencing worsening climate-related disasters – southern Africa.
Mobile Arts for Peace is a collaborative project using arts-based practices for peacebuilding in Kyrgyzstan, Rwanda, Indonesia, and Nepal, with help from universities, cultural artists, civil society organisations, and families in local communities.
Explore the Project
The University of Lincoln offers a number of undergraduate and postgraduate courses that are helping to strengthen our research in History and Heritage.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/researchatlincoln/ruralandcoastalhealth:
Producing purposeful knowledge with real-world impact drives the University of Lincoln’s research in health and wellbeing.
Working with local, national, and international partners, our academics are developing new insights into a wide range of health-related challenges, including pre-hospital treatment, healthy ageing, child wellbeing, and community-based care.
Located in a rural region, the University of Lincoln is alert to the particular challenges and opportunities facing non-urban communities in the UK and around the world.
Our researchers are leading multidisciplinary studies that are making a tangible difference in these areas, addressing issues such as infectious disease epidemiology, anti-microbial resistance, environmental impact, health inequalities, and access to effective treatments and services.
Research News
In the face of the current cost-of-living crisis, a team of Lincoln sociologists has undertaken a nationwide survey to explore the use of affordable food clubs as a new form of aid – a significant milestone in the fight against food poverty.
Addressing and understanding the pressing social issues that directly impact on the lives of families.
Researchers working at the forefront of, and interface between life, environmental, health, computing, and social sciences.
Investigating the development of cognitive, language, social, emotional, motor, and behavioural processes.
Exploring the evolution and ecology of populations, species, and communities across all levels of biological organisation.
Researching the application of psychological knowledge and methods to areas relating to crime and justice.
Conducting research on individuals’ emotions, thoughts, and behaviours in diverse social contexts.
A major focus of the University's research strategy lies in developing partnerships with a wide range of communities, organisations, and researchers in a bid to design and deliver projects that are beneficial to service users and which influence policy, practice, and procedures in health and social care services.
We work with key organisations such as the NHS, the National Institute for Health Research, the National Centre for Rural Health and Care, and many other local and national health and social care groups to help deliver impactful research that is making a positive impact across the generations.
Lincoln researchers are playing a key role in a new £4.5million initiative aimed at transforming healthcare delivery in rural and coastal areas, as well as disadvantaged urban communities.
The East Marsh Community Research Network has secured close to a million pound in funding to tackle pressing social, economic, environmental, and health challenges in one of Grimsby’s most disadvantaged neighbourhoods.
A new pharmacy-based community mental health service, which offers in-person aid to those experiencing suicidal thoughts and/or domestic abuse, has been successfully piloted in pharmacies across Lincolnshire.
The University of Lincoln offers a range of programmes in health and social care, including undergraduate and postgraduate courses, continuing professional development, and flexible learning options.
Discover more by using our course searches below.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/researchatlincoln/securityanddefence:
As an anchor institution to a region possessing a rich military heritage, the University of Lincoln seeks to engage with our defence and security community, sharing knowledge, developing skills, and encouraging innovation through collaborative research.
We are also building on our existing sector-wide partnerships to continue to provide evidence-based, sustainable, and forward-thinking solutions for our partners engaged in all forms of defence and security activity, never more crucial in this ever-changing and unpredictable world.
In recognition of our work, we have been awarded the Armed Forces Covenant Employer Recognition Scheme Gold Award, being one of the first universities to receive this accolade.
Leading academics in the field of diabetes, metabolism, and inflammation have embarked on a unique collaboration with the Royal Air Force to better understand the issues faced by people with diabetes who are working in a military setting.
Seeking to engage with the armed forces and industry partners to find solutions together.
The University is part of the consortium led by Capita Plc to deliver transformational training and education to the Royal Navy.
The University of Lincoln’s Maritime Studies Centre is an integral part of Britannia Royal Naval College.
The School offers a suite of work-based distance learning programmes for full-time serving, reservist, and veteran members of the Armed Forces
In collaboration with military organisations, the University offers a suite of work-based distance learning programmes for full-time serving, reservist, and veteran members of the Armed Forces seeking to gain a new qualification and improve their management skills to progress in their existing careers or prepare for the next.
We also work closely with supply chain organisations such as SRC UK, BAE Systems, and Leonardo to deliver collaborative projects, research, and educational partnerships.
The Greater Lincolnshire Regional Defence and Security Cluster is bringing together national and international defence organisations, manufacturing, innovation expertise, and research and development to provide a single forum to overcome sector challenges and identify business opportunities across the region.
Leading academics from the University of Lincoln and University of Hull have authored a new book offering an unrivalled analysis of the health and wellbeing of prison staff.
Greater Lincolnshire has been officially named a Regional Defence and Security Cluster by the Government, building on the county’s rich aviation heritage.
The University of Lincoln offers a range of programmes in the area of Security and Defence.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/researchatlincoln/researchfeatures/animalbehaviourcognitionandwelfare:
The scientific study of animal behaviour, cognition, and welfare improves our understanding of animal emotions, their biological needs, and why they behave in the way they do.
Importantly, it can help us to learn how best to respond to the challenges that animals face when living in captive or wild environments.
Utilising our first-class facilities and working with a range of partners, including universities, charities, government organisations, and businesses, a team of experts at the University of Lincoln is undertaking groundbreaking studies into animal behaviour, offering innovative and practical approaches to the welfare of a diverse range of animal species.
It is important that scientists communicate their work and its practical implications to the general public.
We see so many cases in our behaviour clinic, where the relationship can be improved by a better understanding of the pet’s perspective.
Professor Daniel Mills
Professor of Veterinary Behavioural Medicine
For some time, our team of Lincoln scientists has been exploring interactions with our favourite animals, delivering fascinating research into their behaviour and emotions.
Working with academics from the University of Sussex, the University of Saint-Etienne, and the University of Arkansas at Little Rock, the team recently discovered that women’s vocal pitch increases when addressing dogs who have larger eyes.
Researchers conducted speech tests with male and female participants to assess the pitch used when addressing images of dogs whose eye sizes had been manipulated to increase or decrease.
The research confirmed that large eye size induced pet-directed speech in women but not men.
A new study has been investigating for the first time the effects that sirens, loud noises, and flashing lights have on dogs while carrying out vital work that keeps humans safe, such as in police and military settings.
The research found that both strobe lighting and acoustic distraction significantly reduced the dog's ability to move efficiently in their environment and impaired their decision-making abilities.
"These distractions can have a considerable effect on dogs’ performance," explains Professor of Veterinary Behavioural Medicine, Daniel Mills.
"In our clinic, we routinely manage many animals with sensitivities to sound and other distractions, but it's possible through a carefully structured reward-based programme to prevent many of these issues."
The team is also currently working to directly enhance the UK defence sector, in a new project which explores new training and assessment methods of military dogs.
This work could help to better understand how to enhance the overall performance when deployed and working with handlers.
This builds on previous research , the findings of which identified that dogs learn tasks less efficiently when compared to training in silence, and can be applicable in a military setting when training canines.
The Animal Behaviour, Cognition and Welfare Research Group comprises a unique team of internationally renowned researchers addressing key questions relating to the development of novel observational, experimental, and computational methods to measure and understand welfare and improve the lives of animals.
Gaining a better understanding of the feelings and the emotions of our pets and animal companions and correctly identifying an animal’s emotional state is key to successful human-animal interactions.
The team has discovered that cat and dog owners perceive a much larger catalogue of emotions than had previously been documented, ranging from simple to complex.
More than 400 cat and dog owners were surveyed to assess the spectrum of states and behavioural characteristics they discerned in their pets.
The questionnaire included six simple emotions (anger, disgust, fear, joy, sadness, and surprise) and 16 complex emotions (amusement, anxiety, boredom, confusion, curiosity/interest, disappointment, embarrassment, empathy, frustration, grief, guilt/shame, jealousy, love/affection, pain, positive anticipation, and pride).
"The results are important as problems can arise if an owner misconstrues their pet’s emotional state," explains Professor Mills.
"For example, if an owner attributed guilt as an emotion in their pet via facial expression and behavioural signals after an episode of misbehaviour, they may feel it necessary to reprimand them."
The University is home to the Lincoln Animal Behaviour Clinic, which is a referral-only veterinary practice run by a small team of highly qualified behaviourists who specialise in the assessment and treatment of behavioural concerns in dogs and cats.
Exploring the degree to which animals possess a conscious experience is another important element in the quest to better understand our pets.
Professor of Animal Cognition Anna Wilkinson joined a global consortium of scientists and philosophers recently to sign the New York Declaration on Animal Consciousness , which stated that consciousness in reptiles, amphibians, and others is a ‘realistic possibility’, underpinned by strong scientific support.
“I was delighted to be part of this groundbreaking declaration," said Professor Wilkinson.
"It's important to consider feelings in species that are less similar to humans and may have feelings and emotions but don't exhibit them in ways that we, as humans, easily recognise.
"Our research investigating the remarkable cognitive abilities in reptiles and amphibians has formed an important part of this evidence.
We have shown that salamanders have substantial long-term memory, lizards can learn from each other, and tortoises can feel emotions and change their behaviour on the basis of this.
This suggests that these groups of animals have a realistic likelihood of consciousness and that it is important to treat them as such when making decisions about them."
Consciousness or sentience is hard to demonstrate with a single study but, taken together, work demonstrating animal feeling, emotions, and cognition can start to pave the way towards this understanding.
Professor Anna Wilkinson
Professor of Animal Cognition
As well as collaborating with scientists and researchers from around the world, our team of experts are also supporting and mentoring a number of postgraduate research students as they conduct their own exciting studies into animal behaviour and welfare.
Subjects cover everything from assessing pain and anxiety in dogs to exploring cognition in tortoises and other cold-blooded animals.
Perceptions of welfare issues in the equine industry is another area of study.
PhD student Erica Cheung has been examining current training practices for performance horses working in equestrianism and dressage in a bid to understand why some bad practices, such as a lack of turnout, inadequate food, and the use of incorrect equipment, remain part of the care and training regimes for these animals.
"I'm really passionate about horse welfare and want my research to make a difference," said Erica.
"I'm only a year into my PhD, but I’ve already grown as a researcher, developing lots of new skills.
I chose to study at the University of Lincoln because of the reputation of its animal behaviour and welfare academics.
I've been blessed to have such a fantastic and knowledgeable supervisory team for my studies."
Professor Daniel Mills is an international authority on companion animal behaviour and was the UK’s ﬁrst specialist in veterinary behavioural medicine to be recognised by the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons.
Professor Anna Wilkinson's research focuses on understanding animal cognition as part of a biological framework, covering two main research areas: cold-blooded cognition and perception and categorisation.
We offer a range of courses in animal behaviour and welfare, bioveterinary science, and zoology.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/liat/research:
With a clear focus on improving productivity, efficiency, and sustainability through innovation, LIAT’s researchers are engaged in international impactful research designed to make a difference across the food chain.
Encapsulating an interdisciplinary approach, our research brings together crop science, computer science, engineering, robotics, AI, and data management application.
The application of technological innovation is crucial to help solve some of the big challenges facing agriculture and food production.
LIAT works closely with industry partners to apply research in a real-life setting, supporting industry needs.
At Lincoln, we are conducting research that aims to introduce new technologies to food production in order to reduce the impact of agri-food on our climate.
Hear from Professor Simon Pearson, director of LIAT, and team, talk about key research developments that are working towards improving sustainability in agriculture.
Our Institute supports the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, which are an urgent call for action to tackle some of the world's most pressing problems, now and into the future.
Focusing on the study of agricultural field drainage and soil management, with research that aims to support farmers, land owners, and ecosystem managers in developing effective, sustainable approaches.
Explore Our Research
The field of robotics and automation is a key strategic theme, looking at the development of innovative solutions to food and farming production.
Solutions impact the end-to-end food and farming value chain.
Considering the end-to-end food and farming value chain within our agricultural ecosystems to see how we can engineer solutions that deliver global impact and address some of our world challenges.
Considering the impact of carbon sequestration and ways in which soil health might be measured using applied technologies and data sciences.
By using robots to consistently and repeatably observe and measure crop growth, we are able to help inform plant breeders and growers about the performance of a type of plant or group of plants.
Digital and extended connected capability support the evidencing of food security pathways, and data sensing and modelling systems allow for forecasting and the development of approaches to risk management.
Using technology to care for crops involves the deployment of novel sensing systems, data collection, and real time data analysis to help understand the micro-environment of individual plants within a crop.
Developing systems that identify harvest-ready crops to enable reliable picking/harvesting using practical engineering solutions, robotics, vision and sensing systems, data collection sensors, and computer science.
Creating solutions for the energy efficiency and sustainability of food production systems, including wireless communications, extended data networks, and energy innovation.
With a focus on robotics in the agricultural sector, the centre provides fully funded opportunities for postgraduate students.
Our aim is to make the Lincolnshire and Cambridgeshire region an agri-tech gateway for the world.
Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology University of Lincoln Riseholme Park Lincoln LN2 2LG
liatadmin@lincoln.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/holbeach/research:
Discover more about the facilities as well as the research, knowledge exchanges, and business partnerships undertaken at the National Centre for Food Manufacturing Centre in Holbeach, Lincolnshire.
Our centre supports the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, which are an urgent call for action to tackle some of the world's most pressing problems, now and into the future.
Digitisation, automation, and robotics have the potential to significantly change how food is manufactured, and our process automation research and development can help to increase the productivity and greatly enhance process control.
Our fully equipped product sensory assessment suite and New Product Development kitchen allows us to support food businesses with initial research, sensory evaluation, and market insight to provide opportunities to innovate and create.
Food microbiology is a key focal point of food safety, and our equipped chemistry labs, along with our expertise in technical and quality management, allow us to support businesses within a wide range of microbiological testing services.
Bukola Onarinde is an Associate Professor at our National Centre for Food Manufacturing and has amassed more than 15 years' experience of industrial research collaboration across food microbiology and food science and technology.
We are an internationally recognised provider of education and research in the food manufacturing and technology sector, offering a range of postgraduate programmes in food manufacturing and technology, food science, and strategic leadership.
The Centre of Excellence in Agri-food Technology Holbeach Spalding PE12 7FJ
ncfm@lincoln.ac.uk
01406 493000

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/lirch:
The Lincoln Institute for Rural and Coastal Health (LIRCH) conducts world-class interdisciplinary research to address the most challenging health issues facing rural and coastal communities locally, nationally, and internationally.
We aim to 'shine a light' on the unacceptable place-based health inequities across the rural-urban divide and to find innovative ways of reducing or ideally eliminating that inequality.
The institute brings together world-leading specialists, conducting research across a range of rural health related concerns, ranging from oral health, cancer care, infectious disease epidemiology, HIV, mental health through to sustainable remote health care delivery solutions, place-based community-engaged methods, meta-governance approaches, and m-health technological innovation.
LIRCH is supported by generous grants from the Wolfson Foundation , and the Greater Lincolnshire Local Enterprise Partnership
Our research benefits from strong links and cross-disciplinary working with members of CAHRU , the School of Psychology , the School of Health and Social Care , the Department of Geography, particularly DIRE, and the School of Computer Science.
Nationally, the institute has strong links to researchers at University College London and is a key partner of the National Centre for Rural Health and Care .
Following a £10.9 million grant from UK Research and Innovation, the institute has been scaled up to become the Lincoln Institute for Rural and Coastal Health.
This will be the country's first integrated and multidisciplinary research institute dedicated to bringing together rural and coastal health and wellbeing research to help tackle the place-based inequalities experienced in these communities.
Our institute supports the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, which are an urgent call for action to tackle some of the world's most pressing problems, now and into the future.
We aim to improve the health and wellbeing of rural, remote, and coastal populations.
We have a commitment to include communities and people in research and knowledge exchange that is regionally relevant and addresses national and global challenges.
Our Vision is to be the preeminent rural and coastal health research institute worldwide.
Our Mission is to conduct world-class research that seeks to address the most challenging health issues facing rural and coastal communities locally, nationally, and internationally.
Our key goals are to conduct collaborative and innovative research across regional, national, and international contexts.
Our strategic goals are to:
A list of members of the Lincoln Institute for Rural and Coastal Health.
View the List
View the latest research by members of the Lincoln Institute for Rural and Coastal Health.
Discover more about the work taking place in our thriving postgraduate research community.
Explore some of the recent seminars from the Lincoln Institute for Rural and Coastal Health.
View the Recordings
View a list of key publications by members of the Lincoln Institute for Rural and Coastal Health.
Read the Publications
Our toolkit aims to help those living in rural and coastal communities who are underrepresented in health and social research.
Download the Toolkit

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/researchatlincoln/ref2021:
79% of our research judged to be internationally excellent or world-leading
Grown our share of sector research power by nearly 50%
History placed first in the UK for the ratio of four-star outputs
87% of research impact for Computer Science rated world-leading
Results from the most recent national Research Excellence Framework (REF), which is a system for measuring research excellence in higher education institutions in the UK, have revealed that more than three quarters (79%) of Lincoln’s research was judged to be internationally excellent or world-leading (three and four star).
We have seen an improvement in our overall quality scores, with the strongest advancements made in ratings for the impact our research has on society.
We have also achieved significant improvement across the board in our 'research power', which is a key measure of the influence of our research in the UK, growing our share of overall sector research power by nearly 50 per cent.
The results from the latest REF demonstrate the depth and breadth of research now embedded in academic disciplines across the University of Lincoln, consolidating our reputation nationally and internationally for the quality, value, and diversity of the research we undertake.
The University achieved a number of notable successes in its REF submissions, including:
Many examples of the impact of our research are showcased in our submission to REF 2021, covering 22 different subject areas, and demonstrating the breadth of our research across society, culture, the environment, the economy, and beyond.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/researchatlincoln/meetourexperts:
Our expert academics and researchers are striving to change society for the better.
They are at the forefront of our approach to transforming lives and communities, offering first-class teaching and learning opportunities at all levels and developing distinctive responses to some of the most pressing challenges we are facing today.
They form a connected community of specialists, working across our colleges and schools, and within our dynamic research institutes, centres, and groups, while also collaborating with partners in higher education, industry, and the public sector – all of us working together to change the world.
Mark is Global Professor in Rural Health and Social Care and he is exploring the broader determinants of health to help transform current practices and ensure that marginalised communities have access to the support they need.
View Mark's Profile
Hanya is Professor of Sport, Gender, and Inclusive Education.
Her research focuses on addressing and challenging gender inequalities and inequities across sport and education, prioritising people’s lived experiences.
View Hanya's Profile
Simon is Director of the Lincoln Institute for Agri-food Technology, and his passion for food production and innovative research approaches is helping to drive productivity across the agri-food sector.
View Simon's Profile
View Carenza's Profile
Daniel is an international authority on companion animal behaviour and was the UK’s ﬁrst specialist in veterinary behavioural medicine to be recognised by the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons.
View Daniel's Profile
Anna leads the Centre for Innovation in Fatherhood and Family Research and her work focuses on giving young fathers a voice and a platform to present their views to senior-level professionals and practitioners.
View Anna's Profile
Bukola is an Associate Professor at our National Centre for Food Manufacturing and has amassed more than 15 years' experience of industrial research collaboration across food microbiology and food science and technology.
View Bukola's Profile
Ted founded the UNESCO Chair on Responsible Foresight for Sustainable Development and his research at Lincoln is helping other organisations generate significant social and economic change.
View Ted's Profile
Sharon is a passionate advocate for inclusion, access, and participation, and her role at the forefront of apprenticeships across academia has gained her national recognition as a civic educational leader.
View Sharon's Profile
You can search for staff members and find out more about their teaching roles and research outputs on our Staff Directory pages.
You can hear more from our academics and learn about their pioneering research by visiting The Conversation UK website, which features articles, analysis, and commentary on a range of important and topical issues.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/researchatlincoln/researchopendatasets:
Making research outputs and datasets easily accessible is at the heart of our Open Research and Open Data commitment at the University of Lincoln.
Alongside the infrastructure that we have developed to provide open access to our publications, we are supporting our researchers in sharing their research datasets through our Research Repository.
A dedicated Repository Officer works closely with colleagues in the University's Library and with our academics to define and implement Data Management Plans.
They also provide expert advice about routes to publication and open access policies for all types of research outputs, including research datasets.
Search the full Lincoln Research Repository

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/researchatlincoln/researchenvironment/academicfellowships:
At the University of Lincoln, we aim to provide a supportive and collaborative environment, where researchers can develop the knowledge and skills needed to meet their career goals and aspirations.
To help achieve this, we regularly invite expressions of interest for externally funded fellowship schemes.
The fellowships are also available for academics and researchers working at the University.
The Royal Society Wolfson Fellowships offer a five-year fellowship opportunity to outstanding research leaders outside of the UK, with long-term support and flexible funding to conduct high-quality research here at the University of Lincoln.
The fellowships aim to strengthen research and help build a critical mass of excellence in the UK’s institutions in fields considered strategically important by the institution.
The areas of strategic importance here at University of Lincoln are net zero, agri-food technology, history and heritage, rural and coastal health, and security and defence.
The fellowship funds can cover the researcher’s salary, research expenses, research assistance, and reallocation and visa costs.
It is expected to start between 1 February and 31 August 2026 and last for up to five years.
This fellowship opportunity is specially aimed at mid to senior career researchers.
If you are a researcher with expertise in one of our strategic areas, and if you would like to be hosted by the University of Lincoln, please get in touch.
Email research@lincoln.ac.uk to request an Expression of Interest form.
The deadline to submit your expression of interest is 22 August 2025.
The Turning AI Pioneer fellowships offer a three-year fellowship that must start on 1 October 2026.
This opportunity is for established researchers from across UKRI remit, without a background in core artificial intelligence (AI) research, who wants to build domain relevant AI capability and develop advanced AI approaches to tackle a specific research challenge in their chosen field.
Alongside the development of the fellow’s own AI skills and capability, research leadership skills, and future career direction, the fellowship should also deliver high-quality, domain-specific research that embeds AI approaches.
The deadline to submit your expression of interest is 29 August 2025.
The University of Lincoln supports applications for Leverhulme Early Career Fellowships across its schools, colleges, and institutes.
These fellowships are designed to help early career researchers who have a research record but who have not yet held a full-time permanent academic post undertake a significant piece of publishable work.
Find out more on the Leverhulme Trust website .
The scheme is based on a pattern of joint support where the Leverhulme Trust will contribute 50% of the Fellow’s total salary costs up to a maximum of £28,000 in each year of the award.
The Fellow may request up to £6,000 per annum in research expenses to further their research activities.
We are particularly interested in receiving proposals from humanities and social sciences researchers working in our key strategic areas of net zero, agri-food technology, history and heritage, security and defence, and rural and coastal health.
The deadline to submit your expression of interest is 5 December 2025.
Currently closed for applications.
The University will start its demand management process for this scheme once it has been opened by the funder.
Please check in at a later date.
British Academy Global Professorships seek to support academics proposing ambitious, high-risk, curiosity-driven research in the humanities and social sciences.
Awards will provide up to £900,000 over four years and are expected to add significant value to the UK host institutions, and vice versa.
Applicants must be based outside the UK at the time of application and hold a doctoral degree (or be an established scholar with relevant equivalent experience).
The British Academy Postdoctoral Fellowship offers outstanding early career researchers the opportunity to strengthen their experience of research and teaching in an academic environment through their Postdoctoral Fellowships .
This scheme aims to help develop the award holder’s curriculum vitae and boost their prospects of obtaining a permanent academic post.
The primary emphasis is on the completion of a significant piece of publishable research, and the integration of the award holder into the community of established scholars within their field.
The Fellowship is tenable for three years, starting autumn 2025 in a UK based university or higher education institution or independent research organisation.
The Fellowship is non-renewable.
Currently, the Academy funds 80% of salary costs, with research expenses are covered at 100%, which is set at £6,000 over the three years of the fellowship.
If you are an arts, humanities or social sciences researcher, you’re eligible to apply, and if you would like to be hosted by the University of Lincoln, please get in touch.
The Royal Academy of Engineering (RAEng) offers Research Fellowships each year to outstanding early-career researchers to support them to become future research leaders in engineering.
The Academy welcomes applications from early-career researchers worldwide who have been awarded their PhD in the last four years.
Each application is capped at a maximum contribution from the Academy of £625,000 over a five-year period, at 80% of full economic costs.
The Royal Society’s Faraday Discovery Fellowships are large, investigator-led grants awarded to a single Principal Investigator to enable them to establish an outstanding team of researchers to address challenging research questions.
The Faraday Discovery Fellowships does not operate thematic priorities, but the Royal Society will consider applications from all areas of science (STEM) that are covered by the Royal Society remit .
You must be a mid-career researcher to apply (10-20 years post-PhD, but exceptions may apply—please see the scheme guidance for further information).
The programme will provide grants up to £8 million over a ten-year period to support the development of world-leading research groups in UK Universities and Research Institutes.
The University supports applications for the UK Research and Innovation fellowships, which are designed to develop, retain, attract, and sustain research and innovation talent in the UK.
They also aim to foster new research and innovation career paths, including those at the academic/business and interdisciplinary boundaries and facilitate movement of people between sectors; provide sustained funding and resources for the best early career researchers and innovators; and offer long-term, flexible funding to tackle difficult and novel challenges, supporting adventurous and ambitious programmes.
We also offer a range of scholarships and project-specific studentships for postgraduate researchers, giving them the chance to get involved in some of the exciting research projects taking place at Lincoln.
Our doctoral training partnerships and centres, which bring together academic expertise and cutting-edge resources, offer further opportunities to researchers.
Discover more about our key research strengths and the groundbreaking studies taking place at Lincoln.
The University of Lincoln is committed to encouraging research of the highest quality by supporting good conduct.
Our Ethics Policies
Browse our range of current job vacancies for academic, research, administrative, and professional services staff.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/researchatlincoln/researchfacilities:
We understand the importance of giving you a strong foundation to help you achieve your aspirations, so we are constantly investing in our campus, buildings, and facilities to provide you with the best possible research and learning environment.
In fact, we have invested more than £375 million in our Brayford Pool Campus in the last two decades.
You can take advantage of the high-quality facilities and specialist research spaces across our buildings on campuses.
This includes scientific laboratories, state-of-the-art clinical suites, specialist arts studios, and access to advanced research equipment and resources.
Research and learning across our science and health-related programmes take place in innovative and purpose-built facilities, which are based on our Brayford Pool Campus and our Riseholme and Holbeach sites and give you the opportunity to work with expert academics, technicians, and industry partners.
The clinical suites in the Sarah Swift Building are used to simulate real hospital and home environments, and feature the latest in patient simulation technology, providing a hub for medical research and research-informed teaching.
The campus is home to the National Centre for Food Manufacturing, offering specialist facilities and industry-standard equipment, including analytical laboratories with a test kitchen and sensory testing suite, a technician training centre, and processing facilities.
These specialist laboratories feature modern equipment in order to undertake physiological and biomechanical assessments.
The labs are equipped for both the teaching of students, academic research, and also external consultancy with businesses and elite athletes.
Our Isaac Newton Building oﬀers access to workshops and computer laboratories, an electrical systems laboratory, and a biofuels laboratory.
Psychology students have access to equipment such as a dynamic 3D body scanner, an eye-tracker, Psychophysics, Molecular lab, and driving simulator to use in both their own research or as part of one of the many research groups in the School.
The campus is home to the Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology, Lincoln Agri-Robotics, and Lincoln’s Centre for Doctoral Training in Agri-Food Robotics.
It has a working farm, woodlands, grasslands, and watercourses for research into agricultural robotics, ecology, and hydrology.
Our specialist facilities covering the arts, social sciences, and humanities give you the opportunity to indulge your curiosity, strengthen your critical thinking, and test and develop a range of creative methodologies to challenge preconceptions and forge new understandings of who we were, who we are, and who we can be.
We offer a dedicated CAD Lab of high-end PCs equipped with CAD software, a construction science lab, multi-materials workshops, fully equipped studios, and specialist printing.
Business students have access to the Bloomberg Terminal, which is designed to help industry professionals make better-informed investment decisions by oﬀering the latest market news along with historical data and an international network to communicate securely and reliably.
The University is home to Lincoln Conservation, a company that combines research, teaching, and commercial expertise, and you can also benefit from a range of specialist facilities and work spaces, including our conservation and restoration laboratories.
We offer a range of facilities for creative practitioners, including fashion workshops, editing suites, audio recording, a sculpture and 3D workshop, a MakerLab, a photography studio, printmaking facilities, and computer suites.
You have access to TV and radio studios, audio production, a multi-track recording studio, video editing, animation and multimedia suites, and industry specification cameras, lights, and audio recording equipment.
As well as our specialist research sites and high-quality facilities, which can provide subject-specific resources for your studies, you also have access to a range of flexible learning spaces across our buildings on campus.
This includes dedicated study spaces for postgraduate research students, seminar rooms, lecture theatres, and workshops, alongside social spaces, breakout areas, and learning lounges, which are ideal for meeting and collaborating with fellow students and researchers.
At Lincoln, our researchers are collaborating through a range of dynamic research institutes, centres, and groups, producing high-quality research and groundbreaking studies that are addressing some of the most pressing issues that are facing us in the world today.
Our research institutes, centres, and groups are home to pioneering new studies which bring together expertise from across the University and beyond.
Our Research Groups
Browse the strength and breadth of our academics' published research using our research repository.
Discover more about our research focus and the groundbreaking studies taking place at Lincoln.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/researchatlincoln/concordatforresearchers:
The University of Lincoln became a signatory of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers (otherwise known as the Researcher Development Concordat) in February 2020.
A copy of the letter publicly committing to the principles and signatory responsibilities of the Concordat can be found on the Researcher Development Concordat website .
The Concordat not only helps to improve environment and culture within which research is conducted, but also recognises the role of research and innovation in delivering the UK’s industrial and economic strategies.
The Concordat sets out clear standards that research staff can expect from the institution that employs them, as well as their responsibilities as researchers.
Stakeholders include: researchers, managers of researchers, institutions, and funders.
Following an external review in January 2023, the University of Lincoln was successful in retaining the European Commission HR Excellence in Research Award for a further three years.
The award is an important mechanism for implementing the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers.
In retaining this award, we have demonstrated our commitment to supporting researchers’ career development as well as improving research culture and working conditions.
The Concordat is structured around three core principles, which are underpinned by obligations for the four groups of stakeholders:
The University of Lincoln’s HR Excellence in Research Award action plan and two-year report can be read below.
The next review for the HR Excellence in Research Award will take place in January 2026.
HR Excellence in Research Action Plan 2023 - 2026
HR Excellence in Research Two Year Report - 2023 (PDF)
University of Lincoln Context for Action Plan
HR Excellence in Research Action Plan 2020 - 2022
The Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers is an agreement between stakeholders to improve the employment and support for researchers and researcher careers in higher education in the UK.
Read the Concordat
The Doctoral School’s Researcher Development Programme offers academic, professional, and personal development through a number of training workshops and events.
Explore the Programme
Lauren Blackwell, Researcher Development Officer
Email: lblackwell@lincoln.ac.uk
Helen Rice, People Change and Policy Manager
Email: hrice@lincoln.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/researchatlincoln/researchenvironment/sustainabilityconcordat:
The University of Lincoln's Vice Chancellor Neal Juster has signed the Letter of Commitment to the Concordat for the Environmental Sustainability of Research and Innovation Practice, co-developed by the UK Research and Innovation Sector.
By becoming a signatory, the University commits to taking action to change the way we undertake research activity and to support all six priority areas of the concordat: Leadership and system change; Sustainable infrastructure; Sustainable procurement; Emissions from business and academic travel; Collaborations and partnerships; and Environmental impact and reporting data.
We are committed to taking action now and into the future to deliver excellence in research and drive research that will positively impact on the sustainable development of our region and future generations to come.
I, Neal Juster on behalf of the University of Lincoln, confirm our commitment to the priority areas outlined in the Concordat for the Environmental Sustainability of Research and Innovation Practice.
The University of Lincoln fully supports the priority areas outlined in the concordat.
We will deliver against all the priorities in practice and recognise our responsibilities as a signatory, as set out in the concordat.
By signing this Concordat we recognise the need to change how we conduct research and innovation as well as promote wider solutions.
We also agree to take shared action now and into the future to reduce and eliminate our own environmental impacts and emissions and achieve the transition to sustainable practices.
We are fully committed to delivering excellence in research and we will continue to drive research that will positively impact on the sustainable development of our region and future generations to come.
This Commitment aligns with our Research and Knowledge Exchange Strategy and Environmental Sustainability Strategy.
Yours sincerely,
Professor Neal Juster
Vice Chancellor, University of Lincoln
The Concordat for the Environmental Sustainability of Research and Innovation Practice aims to ensure research continues to play a critical part in understanding how our planet is changing.
Our strategy is to be an institution where sustainability is a core value running throughout our activities and we are recognised for our local and global impact in the transition to net zero.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/researchatlincoln/imagesofresearch:
At the University of Lincoln, we aim to provide a supportive, collaborative, and inclusive research environment where knowledge, ideas, and creativity are nurtured and celebrated.
Our annual Images of Research competition is doing just that, showcasing some of the impactful research that is taking place at Lincoln.
Participants are asked to submit a unique image, along with a 150-word abstract describing how the image reflects their current research.
All staff members and postgraduate students undertaking research at the University can take part, and their entries feature in a special public exhibition on our Brayford Pool Campus.
A panel of academic representatives judge the entries and pick a Best Staff and Best Student winner.
An online vote determines the People’s Choice award, and all three winners are awarded a certificate for their efforts.
Can you spot a synthetic face?
Electrospinning - a fibre in flight
Rethinking Orientalism: A British architect and his design for a Christian university in China
Spreading awareness for Nyxoid
Fragaria digitalis
PhDone!
Internationalisation of immigrant-owned small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in the United Kingdom: Drivers, barriers and impacts
Four Second Fairy Tales
Power in Kindness
Window Display: Navigating deception, embracing uniformity and the historical imprint of window tax
You can view the full abstracts and all the images from the University of Lincoln's Images of Research competition in our 2024 exhibition brochure.
All the images remain the copyright of the individual entrants.
Download the Images of Research Brochure
Working across sectors and disciplines and alongside regional, national, and international partners, our academics are engaged in groundbreaking studies that are challenging the status quo and making a tangible difference to the world around us.
Our postgraduate students form an important part of our vibrant research community and we offer a range of programmes and development opportunities that can help you gain the skills and knowledge needed to meet your career goals and aspirations.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/psyspw/psychologyresearch/aric:
The Autism Research Innovation Centre (ARIC) is focused on strengthening the wider autism community through participatory action research.
The group's mission is to create a diverse and inclusive environment where community knowledge and academic expertise merge to produce evidence-based innovative professional approaches and services for enriching the lives of autistic people and those who support them throughout their lifespan.
We are combining the diverse expertise of academic professionals in the fields of autism research, business, computer science, dog and animal-assisted interventions, education, health, human resource management, medical statistics, and psychology with the in-depth, first-hand experience of community leaders, community partners, and policy-makers, including governmental organisations, local government and public authorities, charities, and engagement groups.
Our objective is to empower autistic communities by developing, evaluating, and cultivating modern, efficient, evidence-based initiatives and protocols to strengthen the connection between autistic people and those supporting them – from early childhood to late adulthood – and to enhance and maximise the rewards of their collaboration.
Ultimately, we envisage and realise practices, techniques, and technologies, which inherently enable and actively promote the organic creation of a society that cherishes and thrives on its diversity and inclusivity.
Our work is grounded in the innovative principles of participatory action research and community-based participatory research, where we strategically involve all stakeholders to co-develop the stages of project design, data collection and dissemination, in order to break through the current boundaries of scientific- and public understanding of autism and of autistic individuals.
Using this framework, the multiple perspectives we adopt and combine, shed light onto various unique life experiences shared by autistic people from accessing additional support in education, through gaining novel opportunities by making the most of skill development programs and service provisions, to improving overall quality of life by finding and retaining employment.
We draw on these experiences and research outcomes to inform policy development and re-assess current professional practices in the UK.
Chair: Responsible for providing leadership and strategic oversight to ensure effective governance and alignment with the centre's mission.
Director of Research: Responsible for shaping the research agenda, managing operations, mentoring researchers, and ensuring the overall success and impact of the research centre.
Research Programme Leads (RPL): Responsible for developing and coordinating research projects.
Board: Responsible for facilitating development, sharing information, monitoring and recording actions and progress in a strategic, complementary, robust, secure and consistent way.
Progressive Autism Group: A student-led, neuro-affirming research and social group dedicated to creating a supportive and proactive community for autistic students.
Dr Paul Baxter
RPL in Robotics and Autonomous Systems
Robert Dean
RPL in Creative Arts
Dr Simon Durrant
RPL in Sleep Interventions
Jenny Hamilton
RPL in Counselling/ Psychological Therapies
Dr Niko Kargas
Chair and Director of Research
Prof Lambros Lazuras
RPL in Inclusive Sports
Rachael Mason
RPL in the Criminal Justice System
Prof Kerstin Meints
RPL in Animal-Assisted Interventions
Dr John Mendy
RPL in Inclusive Employment
Prof Daniel Mills
Prof Michael Rowe
RPL in Digital Health & Social Care Innovation
Dr Lauren Smith
Academic Staff
Dr Laurence Baldwin
Dr Ana Barcelos
Dr Victoria Brelsford
Dr Heather Cogger-Ward
Dr Mirena Dimolareva
Dr Francesco Del Duchetto
Dr Stephen Earl
Mr Stephen Fisher
Dr Julia Foecker
Dr Christos Frantzidis
Dr Kathleen Green
Dr Georgina Gous
Prof Kun Guo
Dr Rebecca Hawkins
Prof Todd Hogue
Dr Mark Hudson
Helen Kemp
Dr Robin Kramer
Sarah Lepley
Dr Kirsten McKenzie
Dr Hannah Merdian
Dr Tochukwu Onwuegbusi
Dr Lynn Pickerell
Dr Petra Pollux
Dr Amanda Roberts
Dr Jim Rogers
Dr Sarah Sauve
Rachel Scarrott
Dr Valentina Sclafani
Dr Andre Soares
Dr Brett Still
Dr Emile van der Zee
Dr Fenja Ziegler
Doctorate Students
James Baggott
Sally Becker
Lauren Bourn
Chair of the Progressive Autism Group
Thomas Davies
Co-Chair of the Progressive Autism Group
Anum Farooq
Elle Hatam (Boden)
Ellie Hughes
Lauren Leivers
Orfeas Stavrou
Jenny Young
Andrei Zarie
Psychologists in this group undertake research which is focused in applied settings and on clinical or forensic populations, concerned with psychological functioning related to clinical and forensic problems.
The Perception, Action, and Cognition Research Group works across a broad range of issues including visual motion processes, emotion and memory, and the visual processing in dyslexic, autistic, and neurological populations.
This group includes a team of developmental, social, and evolutionary psychologists who examine the development of motor, behavioural, and cognitive processes, and the social psychological processes affecting interpersonal, intergroup, and interspecies attitudes, cognition, emotion, and behaviour.
School of Psychology Sport Science and Wellbeing University of Lincoln Brayford Pool Campus Lincoln LN6 7TS
01522 882000

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/socialsciences/research/innovationinfatherhoodandfamilyresearch:
The Centre for Innovation in Fatherhood and Family Research (CFFR) brings together academics, multi-agency practitioners and those with lived experience to address and understand pressing social issues that directly impact on the lives of families.
Building from the foundations of a Future Leaders Fellowship called Following Young Fathers Further , led by Centre Director, Professor Anna Tarrant, the Centre is distinctive within the Higher Education sector for its combined focus on fatherhood and family welfare as core areas of societal significance.
Taking this work forwards collaboratively, CFFR advocates for father-inclusion and the wider societal benefits of promoting engaged fatherhood as a route to improving family wellbeing.
A key aim of the Centre is to advance knowledge and expertise in fatherhood and family research, with a view to influencing academic, policy, and practice agendas both locally and (inter)nationally though impactful social sciences research.
We are especially committed to the use and development of participatory and collaborative methodologies including co-creation and co-production to ensure interventions are effectively tailored to the needs of both beneficiaries and providers.
Key themes and areas of expertise held by our academic and multi-agency partners include:
Our Centre supports the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, which are an urgent call for action to tackle some of the world's most pressing problems, now and into the future.
First established in 2023, the Centre continues to grow and is developing its offer.
Core strands of activity include: an annual keynote speaker event; delivery on applied research projects with local and national partners; influencing family policy and other relevant arenas of policy that impact on families; providing consultancy and evaluation; and leading and contributing to national and international research networks and projects.
You can learn more about our work and our outputs by exploring these pages.
The Following Young Fathers Further research study involves partnership working with young fathers and professionals to understand the experiences and support needs of young fathers and to promote a more father-inclusive approach to support in the UK.
The Hub aims to ensure that the experiences of marginalised boys across Lincolnshire are acknowledged, amplified, and addressed through innovative educational policies and practices.
Read more about our ‘Following Young Fathers Further' study, which is funded by UK Research and Innovation and has seen the co-creation of the Young Dads Collective in Leeds and Grimsby.
Explore the Research
A new research study, funded by the Nuffield Foundation, has found that modern parents want to do things differently, but parental leave policies make it hard to share care.
Read the Study
A major strategic goal is to strengthen family and societal wellbeing via fatherhood and family research, through innovative participatory methods and unique university-community partnerships.
Read Our Objectives
View the current list of members of the Centre for Innovation in Fatherhood and Family Research.
List of Members
View a list of recent publications written by members of the Centre for Innovation in Fatherhood and Family Research.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/law/research/lincolncentreforcrimeandjustice:
The Lincoln Centre for Crime and Justice unites academics and practitioners from a range of disciplines to investigate and improve crime and justice outcomes through research, consultancy, and knowledge exchange.
Our research covers four core themes: health and wellbeing; violence and harm; data and technology; and reducing offending.
The centre's key aims and objectives are to investigate a range of areas with a view to informing responses and improving outcomes related to crime and justice.
A list of members of the Lincoln Centre for Crime and Justice.
View List of Members
Publications by members of the Lincoln Centre for Crime and Justice.
Read Our Publications
The Prison Governors Association tasked a multidisciplinary team to investigate its members’ health and wellbeing, following the Covid-19 pandemic.
Watch the Video
Find out more about some of our current and completed projects, and explore our collaborations with a range of justice-related organisations.
Discover more about some of the current research projects being undertaken by the Lincoln Centre for Crime and Justice.
Explore Our Projects
Explore some of the recently completed research projects by members of the Lincoln Centre for Crime and Justice.
Discover More
The Centre has been working on a number of collaborations with a range of crime and justice-related organisations.
Explore Collaborations

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/law/research/lincolncentreforecologicaljustice:
These words of Swedish activist, Greta Thunberg, sum up the damage that humans are wreaking on the environment.
They also serve as a reminder that we urgently need to embed new, or better ways of thinking about the environment in individual and institutional practices if we are to prevent critical planetary boundaries from being breached.
Our failure to think and to act will result in catastrophic effects for human and natural systems.
Despite our technological and cultural achievements, we remain (and will always remain) critically dependent on healthy, functioning earth-system and ecosystem processes.
The accelerating environmental degradation projected for this century, of which climate change, natural habitat loss, over-exploitation of resources and pollution are major drivers, will likely move many key natural systems beyond their capacity for resilience to the limits where sudden and dramatic regime shifts, perhaps even complete system collapses, will occur.
The implications of these changes are profound, both for the natural world and for the goods and services it provides humanity, not least the impacts on food production and threats to health from pollution and emerging diseases.
They are also profound in terms of the social and economic disruption and dislocation that will inevitably follow these changes.
We know that solutions to these challenges are urgently needed.
However, our solutions to these problems currently remain embedded within institutions that perpetuate the problem.
If we are to change the types of solutions that are adopted we need to improve our understanding of how best to make the necessary changes in human and institutional behaviour at a level and degree that will make a difference.
Developing our understanding of how to induce the necessary changes requires new forms of research, with new synergies from interdisciplinary, cross-scale research in law, the natural and social sciences, and the humanities.
The Lincoln Centre for Ecological Justice will lead and enable creative research that does just that, and will deliver new understandings of the types of changes and governance measures needed to turn the Anthropocene from an era of high risk for society and the environment to one in which the needs of all are met on an equitable basis.
Through our work on portraying ecological justice we interrogate the representation of ecological justice in society and across all disciplines from the arts to the natural sciences.
We enable policymakers, practitioners, and the wider public to understand the impact of human activity on the environment.
Our research generates insights into the causes and impacts of Ecological Justice on species and social groups.
A list of members of the Lincoln Centre for Ecological Justice.
View a list of sample publications by members of the Lincoln Centre for Ecological Justice.
We welcome applications at any time from prospective students wanting to join our thriving postgraduate research community.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/socialsciences/research/lincolnparliamentaryresearchcentre:
The University of Lincoln has a record of undertaking research into policy, parliaments and other key political institutions.
It also seeks to build upon this to ensure that research informs teaching and the wider experiences of students at all levels.
The overall aim of the Lincoln Parliamentary Research Centre (ParliLinc) is to establish Lincoln as a recognised centre of excellence for research and teaching in parliamentary and legislative studies.
It has five broad aims designed to enhance research, facilitate impact, and promote engagement with parliaments and legislatures in the UK and beyond:
Our research supports the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, which are an urgent call for action to tackle some of the world's most pressing problems, now and into the future.
Exploring the role of legislatures in public policy formation and conducting research on past parliaments’ role in the making and breaking of welfare policies, parliament, and social policy.
Examining scrutiny of the executive by parliament and exploring oversight committees, witness diversity, legislatures and the intelligence services, the Liaison Committee, prime ministers, and parliament.
Investigating the relationship between the legislature and the public, including parliamentary engagement with the public, e-petitions, political engagement with young people, and citizenship education.
Parliamentary Studies is an undergraduate module co-taught by scholars from the University of Lincoln and officials from the Houses of Parliament.
Learn About the Module
A list of members of the Lincoln Parliamentary Research Centre,
Publications by members of the Lincoln Parliamentary Research Centre.
The Parlilinc blog features information about forthcoming events, new research, policy briefings, and tweets by members of the Lincoln Parliamentary Research Centre.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/fpa/research:
Lincoln School of Creative Arts has a thriving research culture, organised around its core areas of expertise in contemporary theatre-making, musical theatre, practice as research, post-conflict reconciliation, and intercultural performance.
Alongside the independent research of individual colleagues, we encourage collaborative, interdisciplinary and public-facing research initiatives.
We work extensively with communities both locally and globally, and alongside our archival, ethnographic, and critical research work, our projects encompass the creative energy of our school’s practical profile through performances and exhibitions.
Our research groups "Contemporary Theatre-Making", "(Re)constructing Musics" and "Intercultural Performance", have forged valuable connections with international networks, attracting significant funding from research councils and arts organisations.
We have hosted numerous conferences, symposia and events, and have a vibrant community of postgraduate students engaged in MA, MRes, MPhil and PhD study.
Research staff work across disciplines both within and outside of the School, but come from the broad disciplines of Drama and Theatre, Fine Art, Music, and Musical Theatre.
Find out More about Drama and Theatre Research
Find out More about Music Research
Find out More about Musical Theatre Research
Find out More about Fine Art Research
Find out More about Postgraduate Research
Find out More about Research Impact

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/lbs/research/communityorganisationresearchgroup:
The Community Organisation Research Group at Lincoln International Business School researches community organisation, self-organisation and development within Third Sector organisations, multi-agency networks, and community groups.
The group focuses on community-based research in Active Citizenship, Wellbeing, and Community Development.
We have led national and international work on community-based learning, community-university partnerships, and strengthening civil society.
Business Schools, and community-based research more generally, are both increasingly being recognised by Policy-makers and Practitioners as having an important role to play in supporting Third Sector, voluntary, and community organisations.
This research is part of the commitment the University, College and Business School makes to be an active part of local, national, and international communities and to create impact within society through research.
It is also part of the School’s wider agenda of ‘Responsible Business’ and of engagement with the wider business sector, including Third Sector and non-profit organisations.
We build community partnerships e.g.
with community-learning providers, health partners, social enterprises, and community groups to foster community engagement and to co-develop research that incorporates community issues and concerns within wider debates.
Dr Rebecca Herron , Reader
Ms Zoraida Mendiwelso-Bendek , Senior Research Fellow in Citizenship
Prof Ted Fuller , UNESCO Chair on Responsible Foresight for Sustainable Development
Prof Heather Hughes , Professor of Cultural Heritage Studies
Dr Geeta Lakshmi , Associate Professor
Miss Liz Price , Senior Research Fellow
Dr Agnieszka Rydzik , Senior Lecturer
Prof Marj Mayo, Goldsmiths University
Martin Hodgkinson, Carlton House Consultancy
Dr Jane Watts, NIACE
Professor Agustin Domingo, University of Valencia
Dr Gabi Recknagel, Take Part Network
Thomasin Nicholds, Childrens Links
Paul Carrick, Lincoln City
Dr Jan Schuurman, Max Planck Institute
Robin Wright, Trustee of Magna Vitae
Fr Jonathan Sibley, Facilitator of the Social Issues in the Fens Network
Dr Eliseo Vilalta Perdomo , Senior Visiting Fellow
The group researches community organisation, self-organisation and development within Third Sector organisations, multi-agency networks and community groups, focusing on community-based research in Active Citizenship, Wellbeing and Community Development.
The group's research focus is responsible management.
Its aim is to contribute new knowledge in ways that improve understanding of responsible management as a concept and as practice.
The Visitor Economy Research Group (VERG) concentrates on projects in the areas of tourism, events and leisure.
The Marketing Research Group (MaRG) collates and develops the research calibre of a group of colleagues, both early career and well established, who are contributing to a wide range of marketing-related studies.
These include marketing strategies, consumption, consumer culture, consumer behaviour, communications, advertising, digital and social media, brand management, entrepreneurial marketing and consumer technology.
The group has a growing track record of social and economic development research, including locally, nationally, and internationally funded projects aimed at investigating the role of innovation and entrepreneurship in the developments of regions.
Lincoln International Business School welcomes applications from students wanting to pursue research study at the postgraduate level, offering a range of opportunities to undertake business-related research.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/lbs/research/lincolneconomicsaccountancyandfinancegroup:
The Lincoln Economics, Accountancy & Finance Research Group (LEAF) brings together economics and finance academics from University of Lincoln's International Business School and School of Social and Political Sciences, graduate students, and a diverse network of collaborators, with the aim to facilitate the creation and diffusion of rigorous and policy relevant research as well as research skills within the University, the local community, and the society at large.
Our research is based on microeconomic models encompassing heterogeneous individual and firm behaviours and extends to the functioning of particular industries as well as the macroeconomic perspective that brings in the picture the interplay of institutions, markets, and policies in the diverse contexts of developing, emerging, and developed economies.
A well-functioning markets and a vigorous enterprises are important drivers of growth and poverty reduction.
Finance is central to enterprise development and vice versa, and large parts of both areas of inquiry revolve around the behaviour and performance of individuals and firms.
Understanding these behaviours and outcomes is important from theoretical and practical perspectives.
Even if the markets are efficient and individuals rational most of the time, we need to worry about the times when they are not.
On the backdrop of the 2007 financial crisis, the economists have been blamed for their failure to understand the importance of finance and financiers for putting too much faith in the models produced by economists.
We recognise that individuals and firms cannot be the rational actors who fit neatly into academic models and that the level of financial development is good only up to a point, after which it may negatively impact economic growth.
Therefore in our research we aspire to deal with the world as it is, not the world that is easily modelled.
Prof Shrabani Saha , Professor of Development Economics, LEAF Research Group Lead, Director of Research – Economics
Prof Hao Quach , Professor of Banking and Finance - Director of Research – Finance & Accountancy - PhD Lead Finance & Accountancy
Prof Nadia Gulko , Professor of Accounting Education and Sustainability & Accounting and Finance Group Lead
Dr Dragana Radicic , Associate Professor & Economics Group Lead
Dr Mahfuzur Rahman , Associate Professor
Dr Fadi Alkaraan , Associate Professor of Accounting, Governance & Sustainability
Dr Tim Chai , Senior Lecturer
Mr Umer Farooq , Senior Lecturer in Accountancy and Finance
Dr David Latham , Senior Lecturer
Dr Eric Ruto , Senior Lecturer in Economics - PhD Lead Economics
Dr Aleksandar Vasilev , Senior Lecturer
Dr Lilian Korir , Senior Lecturer in Sustainable Agri-food Systems
Dr Erkan Demirbas , Senior Lecturer in Financial Economics
Dr Chau Le , Senior Lecturer in Banking and Finance
Ms Linh Nguyen , Senior Lecturer in Accountancy and Finance
Mr Ryan Girdley , Senior Lecturer in Accountancy and Finance
Dr Princely Dibia , Senior Lecturer in Accountancy and Finance
Dr Samy Amer , Senior Lecturer in Accountancy and Finance
Dr Nishani Ekanayake , Senior Lecturer in Accountancy and Finance
Dr Ngozi Adeleye , Lecturer in Economics
Dr Mehrshad Parvin Hosseini , Lecturer in International Business Economics
Dr Anwesha Bandyopadhyay , Lecturer in Economics
Mr Nikos Xystouris , Lecturer in Accountancy and Finance
Mr Ngoc Tran , Lecturer in Accountancy and Finance
Miss Madiha Sarwar , Lecturer in Accountancy and Finance
Mr Kieron Barber , Lecturer in Banking and Finance
Dr Hanana Khan , Lecturer in Economics
Dr Deniz Guvercin , Lecturer in Economics
Dr Davina Bird , Lecturer in Economics
Dr Chaitali Sinha , Lecturer in Economics
Dr Anna Vysotskaya , Lecturer in Accountancy and Finance
Dr Abdul Haque , Lecturer in Econometrics
Dr Abbas Ali Gillani , Lecturer in Economics
Mr Aliyu Isah , Lecturer in International Business Economics
Mrs Emmanuella Uzoigwe , Associate Lecturer
Dr Arman Mazhikeyev , Associate Lecturer
Dr Ishak Demir , Associate Lecturer
Dr David Gray , Research Fellow
Dr Geeta Lakshmi , Associate Lecturer
Skype May
Yicheng Lin
George Tandiko
Jiahao Lu
Athanasios Tsanaktsidis
Xuan Nam Nguyen
Dramani Angsoyiri
Omotayo Olaleye
Raphael Kasonde
Hanh Nguyen Luu
Trang Cu
Truong Khanh Linh
Hoang Thai Nguyen
Dinh Dinh Do
Danny Duong
Pham Ha Phuong
Bodan Liu
Ian Warton-Woods
Natogmah Issahaku
Sally Mukami Kimathi
Frank Asante Bediako
Seth Asiamah
Thao Giang
Tahmina Rasna
Tho Pham
Zhuoran Li
Hieu Nguyen
Khac Huy Nguyen
Betty Chimbalu
Ngoc Bich Dao
Truong Hoang Diep Huong
Phuong Luu
Nguyen Chi Hieu
Dinh Do
Thanh Pham
Thungan Pham (Jenny Pham)
Dao Ngoc
Bond University, Australia
Catholic University of Leuven, Belgium
Centre for Studies in Social Sciences, Calcutta, India
City University of Hong Kong
Curtin University, Australia
Edith Cowan University, Australia
Federation University, Australia
Griffith University, Australia
Iowa State University, USA
IQRA University, Pakistan
Manchester University, UK
Massey University, New Zealand
Middlesex University, UK
Mongolia International University, Mongolia
Qatar University, UAE
Slovak Agricultural University, Slovakia
The University of British Columbia, Canada
Universiti Teknologi Malaysia
University of Calcutta – India
University College Dublin
University of Kent, UK
University of Newcastle, UK
University of Nottingham, Malaysia Campus
University of Wisconsin - La Crosse – USA
Wageningen University, Netherlands
Western Sydney University, Australia
University of Otago, New Zealand
UNU-WIDER
University of Waikato, New Zealand
The Department of the Treasury , Australian Government, Canberra
Centurion University, INDIA
CRY - Child Rights and You, INDIA
Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment ( MBIE ), Wellington, New Zealand
University of Edinburgh
University of Texas at San Antonio, USA
Teagasc, Agriculture and Food Development Authority, Ireland

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/lbs/research/marketingresearchgroup:
By means of a wide range of scholarly activities, MaRG aims to enhance knowledge and offer insights for marketing and consumer studies in various local or global contexts, from a spectrum of perspectives that draw on cross-disciplinary approaches.
Our research puts emphasis on creating and fostering sustainable values and resources for markets, consumers and related stakeholders.
With diverse background and scholarly interests of our members, we offer a number of undergraduate programmes ( BA (Hons) Marketing and Advertising , and BA (Hon) Business and Marketing Management ) as well as postgraduate programmes ( MSc Digital Marketing , MSc Management with Marketing , MSc Marketing , MPhil/PhD Marketing ).
Research at the University of Lincoln is supporting the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, which are an urgent call for action to tackle some of the world's most pressing problems, now and into the future.
A list of members of the Marketing Research Group
A list of research students of the Marketing Research Group
View the latest publications and scholarly activity by members of the Marketing Research Group.
Dr Victoria Ellis-Vowles is pleased to announce that she is working with Lincoln Trauma Centre to create a self-sustaining business model.
The consultancy is funded by the European Regional Development Fund Productivity Voucher Scheme.
Dr Barry Ardley is working with Northumbria University on how agricultural shows can be strategically planned for “blended” events that incorporate value from online and physical offerings.
Dr Victoria Ellis-Vowles is pleased to announce that she is working with Home Gym UK Community to develop their value offering for their social media community.
The consultancy is funded by the European Regional Development Fund Productivity Voucher Scheme.
Dr.
Samira Zare’s project explores intergenerational differences in sustainability-related behaviours within the broader leisure context to inform both theory and practice about the implications of such behavioural differences
Dr Connie Mak’s study draws on the sociological perspective of practice theories to explore the ‘process’ of how educated and affluent immigrants from the Mainland China adapt to their new life and identities in Hong Kong through the consumption and acquisition of cultural capital
Dr Connie Mak's project adopts a processual perspective and a sociological angle to understand how students acquire and mobilize different consumption resources and practices to adapt progressively to their studying journey abroad.
Dr Victoria Ellis-Vowles has teamed up with People's Pub Partnership to develop a new pub company governance model that brings about social change to the industry.
By prioritising the pub's contribution to community, using local supply chains, achieving carbon neutral and reimagining measures of success for the landlord, this project progresses People's Pub Partnership to proof of concept via a bespoke marketisation strategy.
In a bid to promote more sustainable transport options, shared mobility transport options including dynamic ride sharing have gained momentum in the last decade.
Despite its advantages, uptake remains comparatively low with consumers unwillingness to share considered to be a key deterring factor.
Within the context of an emerging African market, Dr.
Abigail Ehidiamen’s project draws on the multidimensional aspects of cultural sharing values to examine the drivers and barriers to consumers (un-)willingness to engage  in dynamic ride sharing.
Huu Nguyen is conducting experimental research to explore how failures in service chatbot influence customers' intention to avoid this AI-enabled platform.
Specifically, he is investigating whether there are varying effects based on the use of emojis in chatbots, the availability of human employees as a fallback option, brand familiarity, and the promises made by chatbots.
These insights assist industry practitioners and AI developers in understanding customer behaviours during chatbot interactions, facilitating the design of optimized chatbots for enhanced customer service.
Ms Ngoc Nguyen, along with colleagues from Bangor University and Birmingham University, is currently investigating the influence of media communications and consumer identities on sustainable practices regarding consumers’ mask wearing choices.
It is one of the research themes of the interdisciplinary research grew out of the £426,513 Arts and Humanities Research Council project (AHRC/UKVI):  "Between environmental concerns and compliance: How does media messaging affect motivation and choice between disposable versus reusable facemasks?", led by Prof.
Nathan Abrams (Bangor University).
Abigail Ehidiamen and Dr.
Connie Mak’s study examines the phenomenon of broken-consumer brand relationships.
The research explores the nuanced and complex transitional journey of consumers who have previously experienced brand love and lost it.
The study seeks to provide practical and managerial implications on nurturing and re-building existing and damaged consumer-brand relationships.
Find out about research seminars and public engagement activities from the Marketing Research Group.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/lbs/research/regionalinnovationandenterpriseresearchgroup:
The Regional Innovation and Enterprise Research Group has a growing track record of social and economic development research.
This includes locally, nationally, and internationally funded projects aimed at investigating the role of innovation and entrepreneurship in the developments of regions.
The group includes national and international collaborations to advise on future approaches to delivering local, regional, and international policies.
We are researching businesses and wider economic development in different spatial contexts.
This extends from policy evaluations and regional economic analysis through to individual and organisational dynamics that foster entrepreneurship and innovation.
Supporting the economic development of regions can provide better opportunities for the businesses and communities living there.
Understanding more about the importance of innovation and entrepreneurship for the growth can inform new approaches to supporting their development trajectories.
We rely and build up from our diversity and multidisciplinarity to foster integration among research methods and background to create impact in the society.
With a representation from all departments of the Business School, our research group includes expertise coming from the fields of economics, management, regional development and geography, marketing, organisational psychology, sociology, finance, and many others.
This wide spectrum of expertise allows us to tackle several issues related to the different aspects of regional innovation and enterprise.
Dr Andrea Caputo , Reader
Dr Dragana Radicic , Senior Lecturer in Economics
Dr Eric Ruto , Senior Lecturer
Dr Giacomo Marzi, Senior Lecturer
Mrs Mahdieh Zeinali , Lecturer
Prof Matthijs Bal , Professor of Responsible Management
Dr Paul Igwe , Senior Lecturer
Dr Shrabani Saha , Senior Lecturer
Prof Steve Armstrong , Professor in Organisational Behaviour
Prof Ted Fuller , Professor of Entrepreneurship and Strategic Foresight
Mrs Victoria Ellis-Vowles , Senior Lecturer
Prof Charbel Jose Chiappetta Jabbour , Global Professor in Sustainable Operations & Supply Chain Mgt
Dr Ana Beatriz Lopes de Sousa Jabbour , Professor of Supply Chain Management for Sustainable Development
Dr David Gray , Associate Professor
Dr Rebecca Herron , Associate Professor
Prof Martin Hingley , Professor of Strategic Marketing
Dr Arman Mazhikeyev , Lecturer in Economics
Dr Mahfuzur Rahman , Senior Lecturer
Prof Marian Rizov, Professor of Economics
Prof David Charles, Visiting Professor
Dr Gary Bosworth , Visiting Professor
Fiona Ashmore, Research Assistant
Aekachai Khuenmanee, PhD Student
Dannuo Zhu, PhD Student
Mahdieh Zeinali, PhD Student

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/lbs/research/responsiblemanagementresearchgroup:
As the Responsible Management Research Group, we conduct research and activities that promote a more sustainable society and economy.
The RMRG is founded on the basis that our contemporary world is unsustainable, and we are globally in need of more sustainable models of organising.
Faced with a planetary crisis, as signified by climate change, ever-rising inequalities, authoritarian politics, and ongoing wars, the world is in need of new ideas for more sustainable organizing.
In that light, we research the unsustainability of contemporary organising, and look for new ways of organising responsibly.
In light of the unsustainability of our contemporary world, universities have a large role to play in developing new ideas for sustainable organising.
This starts with a scientific critique of contemporary ways of organising, but also entails a theorisation of our contemporary predicament, a resistance against problematic ways of organising, and imagining more sustainable and dignified ways of building workplaces and sustainable organisations.
This is the task that is upon humanity and one of the greatest priorities of the RMRG.
Most of the contemporary academic readings and work is based on responsibility within the neoliberal capitalist system rather than to understand the necessity of changing the system itself.
The RMRG is founded upon the belief that in order to create more sustainable societies, a radical change is needed that extends beyond the boundaries of organisations themselves, and extends to the sociopolitical economic system itself.
Creating more sustainable ways of organising should extend to how societies are organised too, and the mission of the RMRG aligns with this principle.
Mr David Anderson , Senior Lecturer
Dr Andy Brookes , Senior Lecturer
Ms Pippa Denny-Gelder , Lecturer
Dr Jane Deville , Research Fellow
Muhammad Khan , Lecturer
Dr John Mendy , Senior Lecturer
Dr Claire May , Senior Lecturer
Ms Zoraida Mendiwelso-Bendek , Senior Research Fellow in Citizenship
Dr Andrea Caputo , Associate Professor in Strategy and Entrepreneurship
Prof Charbel Jose Chiappetta Jabbour , Global Professor in Sustainable Operations & Supply Chain Management
Dr Dieu Hack-Polay , Associate Professor
Dr Paul Igwe , Senior Lecturer in Strategy and Enterprise
Dr Giacomo Marzi, Lecturer in Strategy and Enterprise
Gamariel Rugara, Lecturer and PhD Student
Judith John, PhD Student
Luke Corner, PhD Student
Prof Deborah Lock, Visiting Professor

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/lbs/unescochair:
The Lincoln UNESCO Chair on Responsible Foresight for Sustainable Development was established in January 2019.
It was created to help address the global challenges of sustainable development through research and responsible foresight practices.
Our mission is to work with communities to construct better futures in North-South collaboration, reframing the future, developing new knowledge, and addressing sustainable development goals.
Our purpose is to reimagine, co-create, co-learn, and share new knowledge that leads to more sustainable and responsible futures.
The Chair members work collaboratively with partners to develop greater capacity for responsible foresight, especially in Global South contexts.
Our aim is to help build joint capacity to shape the future.
View our UNESCO Chair Members
Our programmes are research-based in collaboration with partners.
They address UN Sustainable Development Goals and aim to influence anticipatory processes and capacity in research and education as well as in policy and practice, depending on the specific project and stakeholders
The UNITWIN/UNESCO Chairs Programme, launched in 1992 to promote international inter-university cooperation, has grown to include around 1000 Chairs and 45 networks across 125 countries.
This network of universities around the world supports UNESCO’s work in education, the natural and social sciences, culture and communication, to help address pressing challenges and contribute to the development of their societies.
We co-produce knowledge through partnerships with institutions in the Global South, mainly in Higher Education and NGOs.
Projects involve the creation of new knowledge and new practices through research, education, and training.
Foresight as practice helps to explore and reimagine the future.
Our projects are concerned with understanding and achieving better futures – not as a distant place but as a desirable state created through what we can achieve today.
The future is a real and significant space for inspiring the development of aspiration and capabilities.
We take an explicit focus on creating futures responsibly; on ways to frame and imagine futures; on achieving possible transformations; on the multiple competencies required to create better futures; and on enabling specific action.
This is not a predictive forecasting exercise, but an anticipatory process of intention, policy, practices, and critical articulation of consequences.
Asking questions such as: how does our joint research and expertise change the way that the future is framed and anticipated?
How can the capacity to shape the future be developed?
This means putting extant knowledge and expertise to work as futures thinking.
The process of engaging with the future is intended to influence learning, education, research, applied practices, and policy.
And from such activities all of us can gain new knowledge to develop more effective and inclusive approaches.
Our activities for the coming years include:
The designations employed and the presentation of material throughout this publication do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of UNESCO concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries.
The ideas and opinions expressed in this publication are those of the authors; they are not necessarily those of UNESCO and do not commit the Organization.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/lbs/research/visitoreconomyresearchgroup:
The Visitor Economy Research Group (VERG) harnesses the research energies of a number of colleagues, both early career and well established, who are working in the areas of tourism, mobilities, hospitality, heritage, events, sport and leisure.
Through our research activities, VERG provides insight into and deepens understanding of the visitor economy in diverse contexts, both locally and internationally, and from a range of perspectives and multi-disciplinary approaches.
Our members come from different research areas with interests in destination management, branding and place making; culture and heritage management; tourism marketing; migration, equality and social justice; tourism and hospitality labour; sustainability and social entrepreneurship; events management, consumer culture and consumer behaviour.
We run a number of undergraduate programmes ( BA International Tourism Management, BSc Events Management and BA Sports Business Management ) as well as postgraduate programmes MSc International Tourism Management, MA Culture and Heritage Management , MSc International Sports Business Management
If you are interested in joining us and/or exploring research collaboration opportunities, please get in touch with Dr.
Agnieszka Rydzik at arydzik@lincoln.ac.uk .
A list of members of the Visitor Economy Research Group
A list of research students of the Visitor Economy Research Group
View the latest publications by members of the Visitor Economy Research Group.
Funded by Creative Europe and running 2019-2022, this project aims to promote social inclusion in Europe.
University of Lincoln is leading the project, with five partners and three associate partners.
We are collecting oral testimony for an online archive which will form the inspiration for the creation of a commissioned art installation, acting as a focus for celebrating inclusion.
(Project Lead: Prof Heather Hughes)
The IBCC Digital Archive is a substantial repository on the bombing war in Europe between 1939-1945, which is curated and managed within the Department of Tourism, Languages and Marketing.
It is connected with Lincoln’s newest heritage attraction, the International Bomber Command Centre.
The Archive team has a strong interest in the interpretation of difficult heritage and led the development of the exhibition at the IBCC.
Funded by Historic England, this is a project to understand the impact on volunteers with their involvement in ‘heritage at risk’ projects by conducting interviews and surveys across ten sites in England.
We will develop a toolkit to understand the nature of wellbeing impacts and how Historic England can enhance the benefits to volunteers.
Funded by the Regional Studies Association (RSA) and led by Dr.
Agnieszka Rydzik, MICaRD brings together scholars, policymakers and practitioners across Europe to provide a forum for debating current and emerging issues on European economic migration, foster collaboration and expand research opportunities.
Funded by the UK government, this project aimed to promote social cohesion and inclusion in Boston communities.
The project involved various stakeholders, including Lincolnshire Community and Volunteer Service, Boston Borough Council, community leaders and policymakers.
(Dr.
Agnieszka Rydzik and Liz Price)
This ongoing project involves conducting research for the Lincoln City Council on visitor satisfaction at, and the economic impact of, the Lincoln Christmas Market (Farhan Ahmed, Dr.
Martin Elliott-White).
With Qatar placing its tourism sector as being key to diversifying its economy, this project seeks to boost the number of tourists in order to support sustainable development for the region, identifying support required by the Government, supplying a research evidence-based training module for Qatari tourism staff as well as a Government White Paper.
(Project Lead: Dr Shrabani Saha)
Dr Georgiana Els has been awarded funding from the Quality Assurance Agency for Higher Education (QAA) for an eighteen-month long Collaborative Enhancement project developed in collaboration with Mr.
Chris Jackson from Bishop Grosseteste University (BGU).
A collaboration developed between Dr Georgiana Els and Lincoln City Foundation (LCF) to assist volunteers with planning and delivering community events in the Sincil Bank area of Lincoln.
An initiative within the Department of Tourism, Languages and Marketing to provide expertise, produce high-quality research and generate evidence-driven analysis of tourism-related data with the aim of supporting the Lincolnshire visitor economy, informing policy debates and assisting local stakeholders with data-informed decision making.
Dr Agnieszka Rydzik is launching a campaign ‘Hospitality, Now!’.
Working in collaboration with a range of stakeholders, the aim is to change the culture of student employment in the hospitality sector.
The campaign is funded by the QR Policy Support Fund and emerged from a research project on student-workers on zero-hour contracts in UK hospitality.
Postdoctoral researcher Dr V.
Araj and Prof H.
Hughes, together with project volunteers, continue to uncover fascinating stories from this region that have been neglected or purposely forgotten.
For Black History Month, they launched Lincoln’s first Black History Trail, which will soon be available as a downloadable, self-guided tour.
Dr Abi Hunt, Prof Heather Hughes and Tom Kitchen have been involved in an initiative to preserve vital collections of papers, films and objects relating to the history of Ruston’s, Lincoln’s most prominent engineering manufacturer.
The city’s industrial heritage is increasingly being recognised as an important part of the city’s visitor offer.
Our ‘modern cantastoria’ was premiered at the Frequency Festival in Lincoln in October.
Sadly, due to Covid, none of our five project partners from across Europe was able to attend.
We are now entering the last phase of the project, which will culminate with a celebration in a partner city in September 2022.
The archive continues to grow and attract recognition.
We recently became members of the Community Archives and Heritage Group.
Our partnership with the International Bomber Command Centre is an important one strategically for the University, as will be underlined in February 2022 with the signing of a new, twenty-year agreement.
Sense of belonging on Sports Business Management programmes – this research by Prof.
Hanya Pielichaty examines the experiences of students studying white, male-dominated degree programmes in connection with belonging.
The Good Student Employer Charter was launched in November 2023 and is currently open and free for businesses to join.
Based on our research into employment practices around zero-hours contracts and student-worker experiences, Hospitality, Now!
has developed a set of good practice principles and pledges for employers.
Dr Jane Deville, Liz Price and Dr Victoria Ellis-Vowles teamed up with Georgina Edwards from Plunkett UK, Prof Gary Bosworth form Northumbria University and Dr Claire Marham from Nottingham Trent University in a project funded by NICRE to investigate the potential for working from the pub as a diversification strategy.
“Dr.
Connie Mak’s study focuses on understanding marginalised tourists’ experiences through the lens of women from ethnic minority groups in the UK.
In particular, the research critically examines how the intersected identities of gender, race, and social class influence and shape the development of emotional bonds, attachments, and love for a destination brand”.
In September 2023 Professor Hanya Pielichaty, was invited to give oral evidence (a witness) to the House of Commons Culture Media and Sport (DCMS) Select Committee as part of the Women’s Sport Inquiry.
This inquiry began on the 15th December 2022 and we are currently awaiting the final report.
Dr Agnieszka Rydzik has been awarded the British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship to examine the ways in which technology is transforming hospitality workplaces and how workers exercise agency in order to anticipate, mitigate and manage workforce implications.
Find out about research seminars and public engagement activities from the Visitor Economy Research Group.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/lsdarc/designresearch/creativityandculturalindustries:
This research has a dual focus.
Firstly, it involves research into broad theories of creativity - the different conceptions of creativity which include the personal-centred approaches of neuroscience and psychology, relationships-centred approaches of sociology and anthropology, and wider context-centred approaches of economics, urban studies and Web studies.
However, this largely theoretical research is strongly connected to more applied aspects focussed upon ‘teaching creativity’ and helping to develop professional creative practices.
The second focus concerns broad social and cultural analyses of the creative and cultural industries – how various creative ecologies emerge, how informal creative hubs and networks operate, how cultural policy might best approach and work with these more informal creative spaces.
A wellspring of our shared research agenda is the belief that orthodox assumptions about creativity flowing from isolated individuals is lacking.
Our research into theories of creativity tend to move through more social and cultural conceptions to take into account creative relationships between people, and between people, their places and other broader contextual features.
Our research into the cultural industries tends to focus upon the inter-relationships between independent, commercial and public aspects of broad creative ecologies.
The centrality of this more social and relational conception also informs what we do in terms of concrete applications of our research for pedagogy and developing professional creative practice for enterprise and entrepreneurial discussions.
Researchers often seek novel ways of delivering research to a wide range of contexts, in ways suitable to different audiences.
As well publishing research outputs in the orthodox manner, our members facilitate creative play sessions; seek to advocate for drawing and image-making into research outputs; translate academic research into engaging and practical outcomes for use in creative practices;
These approaches involve working with a wide range of partners including creative businesses and local government, running publically funded programmes for different aspects of the community at large, and working with Schools and Colleges.
The Creativity and Cultural Industries research is cross-disciplinary and draws researchers from broad research topics and subjects.
Our current researchers include:

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/lsd/research/criticalheritageandplaceconsumption:
Colleagues in the Lincoln School of Design and Architecture carry out research in a rich variety of ways and into a broad range of subjects.
Staff carry out both pedagogic research, which informs how we teach and enables students to learn, and more academic research concerning a wide range of topics; from flood protection to council estate design, from product obsolescence to exhibition design.
Researchers write books and academic articles, they create performances, they make different kinds of ‘stuff’ and they work with non-academic partners of various kinds.
In addition to research, colleagues in the Lincoln School of Design Architecture engage in a wide range of activities including various types of teaching, diverse professional practice, wide-ranging outreach, and business enterprise projects.
Our professional practice activities, for example, are diverse and include book art, surf culture, printmaking and visual anthropology.
Our outreach activities and business projects are also characterised by diversity, depth, and breadth.
Find out more about our research.
Social Design
We have a growing population of around 20 full-time and part-time UK and international research students.
They are supervised by staff who are internationally recognised as experts in their field and have access to world class facilities to complete their studies.
Rod Adams Explaining an interactive relationship between humans and the interior work environments they inhabit
Monisola Adesina Social Innovation, a methodological approach to flood mitigation in East Lindsey, Lincolnshire
Julie Bush The life and work of William Logsdail (1859 - 1944)
Dawn Correia The Design, Development and Impact of the Kaleldoscope: An assessment of Sir David Brewster's contribution and of the contestation of his authorship 1810-1820
Cilla Eisner Collage Grids: Generative principles and metaphor
Emmanuel Estename The Mobile Watering Hole: The design and development of a multimedia prototype resource on mobile phones to support the teaching of plastographic printmaking in Nigerian higher education using Constructive Design / Action Research (AR) methodologies (prototyping and collaborative action research)
Amanda Hufford Visual Slang: Grammar of digitally mediated architectural images
Geoff Lee An investigation of the Ceramics Blague
Yuen Fong Ling A Body of Relations: Reconfiguring the life class
Annie Morrad Rhytham and improvisation in Contemporary Art and music practices
Kezhen Wang A decade of innovation in Chinese jewellery design education (2003-2013)
Will Wilson Catalysing Participatory Social Learning: reformulating the design process as means to engage all parties in making conscious and informed behavioural changes towards more sustainable practices, particularly in respect to domestic energy use
Rukia Xu Art and text collisions in contemporary Chinese Art
David Younger Theme park theory
Alison Fairhurst European textiles and leather shoes from 1700 - 1800 and their conservation
Michael Healey The Scottish colourists and their influence in contemporary Scottish paintings
MA by Research Students
Clementine Monro Architectural decay.
Communicating the physical encounter
John Revell Interaction design by hacking
Lincoln School of Design and Architecture staff are also active in the Centre for Conservation and Cultural Heritage Research and English Research Groups

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/hh/research/globalandtransregionalstudies:
The Global and Transregional Studies Research Group (GTS) brings together an interdisciplinary group of scholars at the College of Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities and the University of Lincoln who share research interests in international, transregional, and global studies.
We undertake interdisciplinary research with both historical and contemporary approaches that foregrounds the prominent role of the international, transregional and/or global in reshaping understandings and representations of power, society and culture from early antiquity to our current times.
From the vantage of our expertise across the arts, humanities and other cognate disciplines, we hold such conceptual designations up to scrutiny, and nurture new understandings of the ‘international’, ‘transregional’ and ‘global’ that challenge the asymmetries and inequalities that make up our globalised world today.
The GTS is coordinated by Dr Adonis Li and Dr Emily Timms , both from the School of Humanities and Heritage.
Our group supports the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, which are an urgent call for action to tackle some of the world's most pressing problems, now and into the future.
A list of the members of the Global and Transregional Studies Research Group
View a list of key publications by members of the Global and Transregional Studies Reseaerch Group.
We welcome applications at any time from prospective applicants wanting to join our thriving postgraduate research community.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/law/research/lawandsociety:
At Lincoln Law School we shape academic debates and inform legal and policy developments using a range of doctrinal, empirical, and theoretical techniques.
Our research is connected to enquiry in the wider social and natural science, which allows us to understand and respond to the real-world complexities within which law operates.
We have expertise in a number of areas including company and commercial law, criminal justice, environmental law, human rights, and international law.
As the main research group in the school, we run a vibrant research seminar series and host internal research events.
Discover more about our mission and research in the Lincoln Centre for Crime and Justice
Discover more about the Lincoln Centre for Ecological Justice
Discover more about the Law And Society Research Group
Lincoln Law School University of Lincoln Brayford Pool Campus Lincoln LN6 7TS UK

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/edc/educationresearch/lincolnshirelearninglab:
Lincolnshire Learning Lab is helping to improve the learning of all children and the working environments for teachers within Lincolnshire.
The purpose is to bring academic rigour and evidence-based research into the classroom by engaging the three key stakeholders – teachers, academics, and anyone involved or interested in the education system, such as parents and educational consultants.
The Lincolnshire Learning Lab is so called to enable research to be carried out in schools in a rigorous and innovative manner ensuring that time is spent productively on research that will benefit all staff, children, and families, while offering teachers the opportunity to work with academics to ensure that research is effective for all.
The group is keen to work and involve anyone interested in carrying out research in their schools or education settings.
If you are a teacher from a primary, secondary, specialist provision, or alternative education, or an academic or professional involved in the education system, then please do get in touch.
The ASCENTS 121 support for science programme trained STEM undergraduates to provide 23 weekly one-to-one academic mentoring sessions to Year 11 science pupils.
ACTS aimed to develop, trial, and disseminate a suite of diagnostic and formative assessment tools to be used by classroom teachers to assess progress in pupils’ thinking.
Research-2-Practice is a Wellcome Trust funded research project that is working with, and is guided by, expert teachers to develop packages of evidence-informed science teaching materials.
A list of members of the Lincolnshire Learning Lab and School of Education.
View the latest publications by members of the Lincolnshire Learning Lab and School of Education.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/natsci/lifesciencesresearch/cancerandageingresearchgroup:
Research in the Cancer and Ageing Research Group follows a multi-disciplinary and highly collaborative approach to increase understanding of disease characteristically associated with ageing at the molecular level, to improve prevention, diagnosis, and treatment.
The group has developed strong collaborative links with scientists at the Schools of Pharmacy, Chemistry, Mathematics and Physics, Computer Sciences, the Lincoln Institute for Health and College of Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities.
Work is supported by the BBSRC, Celgene Limited, Boston & District Fundraising Group Leukaemia & Lymphoma Research – Boston Branch, and Shires Pharmaceutical Development Ltd.
Research is based on in vitro modelling and we extensively use tissue culture, microscopy (including laser scanning confocal microscopy, live cell imaging, atomic force microscopy and scanning electron microscopy), Flow cytometry, traditional and advanced molecular biology techniques, yeast models and bioinformatics.
The strength of the group is in unity cemented together by the common interest in ageing related biomedical research including cancer (Csanad Bachrati, Issam Hussain, Stefan Millson, Natalia Fili, Prof Ciro Rinaldi), neurodegenerative diseases (Humberto Gutierrez, Yvonne Nyathi),  stroke and cardiovascular diseases (Steve Bevan, Prof Carlos Rodriguez Pascual), arthritis (Csanad Bachrati), pulmonary fibrosis (Yvonne Nyathy), geriatric medicine, frailty and geriatric assessment (Prof  Carlos Rodriguez Pascual).
Our current research projects include:
Applications from prospective MSc by Research (MScRes), MPhil or PhD students to join our research laboratories are always welcome.
Funded positions, as they arise, are advertised via the University of Lincoln Job Opportunities webpage and relevant national advertising portals.
In addition, we do consider applicants for postgraduate studies in our relevant research areas, who are able to fund their studies themselves or from independent sources.
Funding for postgraduate studies should normally include tuition fees, stipend and costs to cover consumables and bench fees.
For further information and list of relevant topics, please refer to pages of our individual laboratories and potential supervisors.
Current and recent postgraduate research students:
Senior Lecturer Molecular Cell Biology
Rinaldi C.R.
, Boasman, K., Simmonds, M.J., Graham, C.
et al.
Ann Hematol (2019).
Using PU.1 and Jun dimerization protein 2 transcription factor expression in myelodysplastic syndromes to predict treatment response and leukaemia transformation.
pp.
1-3.
Online ISSN: 1432-0584 Print ISSN: 0939-5555
Palmai-Pallag, Timea and Bachrati, Csanad (2014) Inflammation-induced DNA damage and damage-induced inflammation: a vicious cycle.
Microbes and Infection, 16 (10).
822-832.
ISSN: 1286-4579
Pfister, Sophia X.
and Ahrabi, Sara and Zalmas, Lykourgos-Panagiotis and Sarkar, Sovan and Aymard, François and Bachrati, Csanad et al.
(2014) SETD2-dependent histone H3K36 trimethylation is required for homologous recombination repair and genome stability.
Cell Reports, 7 (6).
2006-2018.
ISSN: 2211-1247
Clynes, David and Jelinska, Clare and Xella, Barbara and Ayyub, Helena and Taylor, Stephen and Mitson, Matthew and Bachrati, Csanad Z.
and Higgs, Douglas R.
and Gibbons, Richard J.
(2014) ATRX dysfunction Induces replication defects in primary mouse cells.
PLoS ONE, 9 (3).
e92915.
ISSN: 1932-6203
Klaus, K.
and Butler, K.
and Durrant, S.
J.
and Ali, M.
and Inglehearn, C.
F.
and Hodgson, T.
L.
and Gutierrez, H.
and Pennington, K.
(2017) The effect of COMT Val158Met and DRD2 C957T polymorphisms on executive function and the impact of early life stress.
Brain and Behavior, e00695.
ISSN: 2162-3279
Collins, Louise M.
and Dal Bo, Giorgia and Calcagno, Mariangela and Monzón-Sandoval, Jimena and Sullivan, Aideen M.
and Gutierrez, Humberto and Morari, Michele and O’Keeffe, Gerard W.
(2016) Nociceptin/orphanin FQ inhibits the survival and axon growth of midbrain dopaminergic neurons through a p38-MAPK dependent mechanism.
Molecular Neurobiology, 53 (10).
7284-7297.
ISSN: 0893-7648
Monzón-Sandoval, Jimena and Castillo-Morales, Atahualpa and Urrutia, Araxi O.
and Gutierrez, Humberto (2016) Modular reorganization of the global network of gene regulatory interactions during perinatal human brain development..
BMC developmental biology, 16.
13.
ISSN: 1471-213X
O’Keeffe, Gerard W.
and Gutierrez, Humberto and Howard, Laura and Laurie, Christopher W.
and Osorio, Catarina and Gavaldà, Núria and Wyatt, Sean L.
and Davies, Alun M.
(2016) Region-specific role of growth differentiation factor-5 in the establishment of sympathetic innervation.
Neural Development, 11 (1).
ISSN: 1749-8104
Monzón-Sandoval, Jimena and Castillo-Morales, Atahualpa and Crampton, Sean and McKelvey, Laura and Nolan, Aoife and O’Keeffe, Gerard and Gutierrez, Humberto (2015) Modular and coordinated expression of immune system regulatory and signaling components in the developing and adult nervous system.
Frontiers in Cellular Neuroscience, 9.
ISSN: 1662-5102
Sheikh, Ahmad Hassan and Barry, Denis S, and Gutierrez, Humberto and Cryan, John F.
and O'Keeffe, Gerard W.
(2015) Cadaveric anatomy in the future of medical education: what is the surgeons view?.
Anatomical Sciences Education, 9 (2).
203-208.
ISSN: 1935-9772
Nolan, Aoife M.
and Collins, Louise M.
and Wyatt, Sean L.
and Gutierrez, Humberto and O'Keeffe, Gerard W.
(2014) The neurite growth inhibitory effects of soluble TNFα on developing sympathetic neurons are dependent on developmental age.
Differentiation, 88 (4-5).
124-130.
ISSN: 0301-4681
Togher, K.
and O'Keeffe, M.
M.
and Khashan, A.
S.
and Gutierrez, Humberto and Kenny, L.
C.
and O'Keeffe, G.
W.
(2014) Epigenetic regulation of the placental HSD11B2 barrier and its role as a critical regulator of fetal development.
Epigenetics, 9 (6).
816-822.
ISSN: 1559-2294
Coceano, G.
and Yousafzai, M.
and Ma, W.
and Ndoye, F.
and Venturelli, L.
and Hussain, I.
and Bonin, S.
and Niemela, J.
and Scoles, G.
and Cojoc, D.
and Ferrari, E.
(2016) Investigation into local cell mechanics by atomic force microscopy mapping and optical tweezer vertical indentation.
Nanotechnology, 27 (6).
65102.
ISSN: 0957-4484
Arif, Khalid and Hussain, Issam and Rea, Carol and El-Sheemy, Mohamed (2015) The role of Nanog expression in tamoxifen-resistant breast cancer cells.
OncoTargets and Therapy, 8.
1327-1334.
ISSN: 1178-6930
Alghamdi, Ibrahim and Hussain, Issam and Alghamdi, Mohamed and Dohal, Ahlam and El-Sheemy, Mohamed (2015) The incidence rate of thyroid cancer among women in Saudi Arabia: an observational descriptive epidemiological analysis of data from Saudi Cancer Registry 2001–2008.
Journal of Immigrant and Minority Health, 17 (3).
638-643.
ISSN: 1557-1912
Alghamdi, Ibrahim and Hussain, Issam and Alghamdi, Mohamed and El-Sheemy, Mohamed (2015) The power of the age standardized incidence rate to discover the gene link between cancer diseases: development of a new epidemiological method to save money, time, and effort for genetic scientists.
677.
ISSN: 1178-6930,
Chan, C.
and Hussain, Issam and Waugh, David and Lawrence, Jonathan and Man, H.
(2014) Effect of laser treatment on the attachment and viability of mesenchymal stem cell responses on shape memory NiTi alloy.
Materials Science and Engineering C, 42.
254-263.
ISSN: 0928-4931
Alghamdi, Ibrahim and Hussain, Issam and Almalki, Shaia and Alghamdi, Mohamed and Alghamdi, Mansour and El-Sheemy, Mohammed (2014) The pattern of Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus in Saudi Arabia: a descriptive epidemiological analysis of data from the Saudi Ministry of Health.
International Journal of General Medicine, 7.
417-423.
ISSN: 1178-7074
Alghamdi, I.
G.
I.
and Alghamdi, M.
and Dohal, A.
A.
and El-Sheemy, M.
(2014) The incidence of leukemia in Saudi Arabia: descriptive epidemiological analysis of data from the Saudi cancer registry (2001-2008).
Saudi Medical Journal, 35 (7).
674-683.
ISSN: 0379-5284
Alghamdi, I G.
(2014) Incidence rate of non-Hodgkin's lymphomas among males in Saudi Arabia: an observational descriptive epidemiological analysis of data from the Saudi cancer registry, 2001-2008.
311-317.
Alghamdi, Ibrahim and Hussain, Issam and Alghamdi, Mohamed and Alghamdi, Mansour and Dohal, Ahlam and El-Sheemy, Mohammed (2014) Incidence rate of ovarian cancer cases in Saudi Arabia: an observational descriptive epidemiological analysis of data from Saudi Cancer Registry 2001–2008.
Int J Womens Health, 6 (1).
639-645.
ISSN: 1179-1411
Alghamidi, Ibrahim G.
and Hussain, Issam I.
and Alghamdi, Mohamed S.
and El-Sheemy, Mohammed A.
(2014) The incidence rate of prostate cancer in Saudi Arabia: an observational descriptive epidemiological analysis of data from the Saudi Cancer Registry 2001–2008.
Hematology/Oncology and Stem Cell Therapy, 7 (1).
18-26.
ISSN: 1658-3876
Alghamdi, Ibrahi.
and Hussain, Issam and El-Sheemy, Mohamed and Alghamdi, Mohammed (2013) The incidence rate of female breast cancer in Saudi Arabia: an observational descriptive epidemiological analysis of data from Saudi Cancer Registry 2001-2008.
Breast Cancer: Targets and Therapy, 2013 (5).
103.
ISSN: 1179-1314
Willhoft, Oliver and Kerr, Richard and Patel, Dipali and Zhang, Wenjuan and Al-Jassar, Caezar and Daviter, Tina and Millson, Stefan H.
and Thalassinos, Konstantinos and Vaughan, Cara K.
(2017) The crystal structure of the Sgt1-Skp1 complex: the link between Hsp90 and both SCF E3 ubiquitin ligases and kinetochores.
Scientific Reports, 7.
41626.
ISSN: 2045-2322
Gomez-Escalante, Susana and Piper, Peter W.
and Millson, Stefan H.
(2017) Mutation of the Ser18 phosphorylation site on the sole Saccharomyces cerevisiae UCS protein, She4, can compromise high-temperature survival.
Cell Stress and Chaperones, 22 (1).
135-141.
ISSN: 1355-8145
Millson, Stefan and van Oosten-Hawle, Patricija and Alkuriji, et al.
(2014) Cdc37 engages in stable, S14A mutation-reinforced association with the most atypical member of the yeast kinome, Cdk-activating kinase (Cak1).
Cell Stress and Chaperones, 19 (5).
695-703.
Millson, S.
H.
and Piper, P.
(2014) Insights from yeast into whether the inhibition of heat shock transcription factor (Hsf1) by rapamycin can prevent the Hsf1 activation that results from treatment with an Hsp90 inhibitor.
Oncotarget, 5 (13).
5054-5064.
ISSN: 1949-2553
Caponnetto, Federica and Manini, Ivana and Skrap, Miran and Palmai-Pallag, Timea and Di Loreto, Carla and Beltrami, Antonio Paolo and Cesselli, Daniela and Ferrari, Enrico (2017) Size-dependent cellular uptake of exosomes.
Nanomedicine: Nanotechnology, Biology and Medicine, 13 (3).
ISSN: 1549-9634
Nielsen, Christian F.
and Huttner, Diana and Bizard, Anna H.
and Hirano, Seiki and Li, Tian-Neng and Palmai-Pallag, Timea and Bjerregaard, Victoria A.
and Liu, Ying and Nigg, Erich A.
and Wang, Lily Hui-Ching and Hickson, Ian D.
(2015) PICH promotes sister chromatid disjunction and co-operates with topoisomerase II in mitosis.
Nature Communications, 6.
8962.
ISSN: 2041-1723
Herr, Patrick and Lundin, Cecilia and Evers, Bastiaan and Ebner, Daniel and Bauerschmidt, Christina and Kingham, Guy and Palmai-Pallag, Timea and Mortusewicz, Oliver and Frings, Oliver and Sonnhammer, Erik and Helleday, Thomas (2015) A genome-wide IR-induced RAD51 foci RNAi screen identifies CDC73 involved in chromatin remodeling for DNA repair.
Cell Discovery.
15034.
ISSN: 2056-5968
Xing, Meichun and Wang, Xiaohui and Palmai-Pallag, Timea and Shen, Huahao and Helleday, et al.
(2015) Acute MUS81 depletion leads to replication fork slowing and a constitutive DNA damage response.
Oncotarget, 6 (35).
37638-37646.
Cai, Zhiwei and Palmai-Pallag, Timea and Khuituan, Pissared and Mutolo, Michael J and Boinot, Clément and Liu, Beihui and Scott-Ward, Toby S and Callebaut, Isabelle and Harris, Ann and Sheppard, David N (2015) Impact of the F508del mutation on ovine CFTR, a Cl- channel with enhanced conductance and ATP-dependent gating.
Journal of Physiology, 593 (11).
2427-2446.
ISSN: 0022-3751
Cao, Chao and Gu, Yangjun and Zhu, Chen and Palmai-Pallag, Timea and Lan, Fen and Chen, Zhihua and Li, Wen and Shen, Huahao and Ying, Songmin (2014) Potential roles of eosinophils in cancer therapy: epidemiological studies, experimental models, and clinical pathology.
Recent Patents on Anti-Cancer Drug Discovery, 9 (2).
241-248.
ISSN: 1574-8928
Mesa R, Vannucchi AM, Yacoub A, Zachee P, Garg M, Lyons R, Koschmieder S, Rinaldi C, Byrne J, Hasan Y, Passamonti F, Verstovsek S, Hunter D, Jones MM, Zhen H, Habr D, Martino B.
(2016) The efficacy and safety of continued hydroxycarbamide therapy versus switching to ruxolitinib in patients with polycythaemia vera: a randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, symptom study (RELIEF).
Br J Haematol.
2017 Jan;176(1):76-85.
doi: 10.1111/bjh.14382.
Epub 2016 Nov 8.
Prins, Bram P.
and Abbasi, Ali and Wong, Anson and Vaez, Ahmad and Nolte, Ilja and Franceschini, Nora and Stuart, Philip E.
and Guterriez Achury, Javier and Mistry, Vanisha and Bradfield, Jonathan P.
and Valdes, Ana M.
and Bras, Jose and Shatunov, Aleksey and Lu, Chen and Han, Buhm and Raychaudhuri, Soumya and Bevan, Steve and Mayes, Maureen D.
and Tsoi, Lam C.
and Evangelou, Evangelos and Nair, Rajan P.
and Grant, Struan F.
and Polychronakos, Constantin and Radstake, Timothy R.
D.
and van Heel, David A.
and Dunstan, Melanie L.
and Wood, Nicholas W.
and Al-Chalabi, Ammar and Dehghan, Abbas and Hakonarson, Hakon and Markus, Hugh S.
and Elder, James T.
and Knight, Jo and Arking, Dan E.
and Spector, Timothy D.
and Koeleman, Bobby P.
and van Duijn, Cornelia M.
and Martin, Javier and Morris, Andrew P.
and Weersma, Rinse K.
and Wijmenga, Cisca and Munroe, Patricia B.
and Perry, John R.
B.
and Pouget, Jennie G.
and Jamshidi, Yalda and Snieder, Harold and Alizadeh, Behrooz Z.
(2016) Investigating the causal relationship of C-reactive protein with 32 complex somatic and psychiatric outcomes: a large-scale cross-consortium Mendelian randomization study.
PLoS medicine, 13 (6).
e1001976.
ISSN: 1549-1277
Traylor, Matthew and Rutten-Jacobs, Loes C.
and Thijs, Vincent and Holliday, Elizabeth G.
and Levi, Chris and Bevan, Steve and Malik, Rainer and Boncoraglio, Giorgio and Sudlow, Cathie and Rothwell, Peter M.
and Dichgans, Martin and Markus, Hugh S.
(2016) Genetic associations with white matter hyperintensities confer risk of lacunar stroke.
Stroke: a Journal of Cerebral Circulation, 47 (5).
1174-9.
ISSN: 0039-2499
Malik, Rainer and Traylor, Matthew and Pulit, Sara L.
and Bevan, Steve and Hopewell, Jemma C.
and Holliday, Elizabeth G.
and Zhao, Wei and Abrantes, Patricia and Amouyel, Philippe and Attia, John R.
and Battey, Thomas W.
K.
and Berger, Klaus and Boncoraglio, Giorgio B.
and Chauhan, Ganesh and Cheng, Yu-Ching and Chen, Wei-Min and Clarke, Robert and Cotlarciuc, Ioana and Debette, Stephanie and Falcone, Guido J.
and Ferro, Jose M.
and Gamble, Dale M.
and Ilinca, Andreea and Kittner, Steven J.
and Kourkoulis, Christina E.
and Lemmens, Robin and Levi, Christopher R.
and Lichtner, Peter and Lindgren, Arne and Liu, Jingmin and Meschia, James F.
and Mitchell, Braxton D.
and Oliveira, Sofia A.
and Pera, Joana and Reiner, Alex P.
and Rothwell, Peter M.
and Sharma, Pankaj and Slowik, Agnieszka and Sudlow, Cathie L.
and Tatlisumak, Turgut and Thijs, Vincent and Vicente, Astrid M.
and Woo, Daniel and Seshadri, Sudha and Saleheen, Danish and Rosand, Jonathan and Markus, Hugh S.
and Worrall, Bradford B.
and Dichgans, Martin (2016) Low-frequency and common genetic variation in ischemic stroke: The METASTROKE collaboration.
Neurology, 86 (13).
1217-1226.
ISSN: 0028-3878
and Battey, Thomas W.K.
and Sharma, Pankaj and Slowik, Agnieszka and Sudlow, Cathie L.M.
and Dichgans, Martin (2016) Low-frequency and common genetic variation in ischemic stroke.
Seppälä, Ilkka and Kleber, Marcus E.
and Bevan, Steve and Lyytikäinen, Leo-Pekka and Oksala, Niku and Hernesniemi, Jussi A.
and Mäkelä, Kari-Matti and Rothwell, Peter M.
and Sudlow, Cathie and Dichgans, Martin and Mononen, Nina and Vlachopoulou, Efthymia and Sinisalo, Juha and Delgado, Graciela E.
and Laaksonen, Reijo and Koskinen, Tuomas and Scharnagl, Hubert and Kähönen, Mika and Markus, Hugh S.
and März, Winfried and Lehtimäki, Terho (2016) Associations of functional alanine-glyoxylate aminotransferase 2 gene variants with atrial fibrillation and ischemic stroke.
Scientific Reports, 6 (1).
Scientific Reports, 6.
23207.
Rutten-Jacobs, Loes C.
and Traylor, Matthew and Adib-Samii, Poneh and Thijs, Vincent and Sudlow, Cathie and Rothwell, Peter M.
and Boncoraglio, Giorgio and Dichgans, Martin and Meschia, James and Maguire, Jane and Levi, Christopher and Rost, Natalia S.
and Rosand, Jonathan and Hassan, Ahamad and Bevan, Steve and Markus, Hugh S.
(2016) Association of MTHFR C677T genotype with ischemic stroke is confined to cerebral small vessel disease subtype.
Stroke: a Journal of Cerebral Circulation, 47 (3).
646-651.
(2016) Association of MTHFRC677T genotype With ischemic stroke Is confined to cerebral small vessel disease subtype.
Stroke.
STROKEAHA.115.011545.
Harris, Sarah E.
and Malik, Rainer and Marioni, Riccardo and Campbell, Archie and Seshadri, Sudha and Worrall, Bradford B.
and Sudlow, Cathie L.
and Hayward, Caroline and Bastin, Mark E.
and Starr, John M.
and Porteous, David J.
and Wardlaw, Joanna M.
and Deary, Ian J.
and METASTROKE Consortium, .
(2016) Polygenic risk of ischemic stroke is associated with cognitive ability.
Neurology, 86 (7).
611-618.
Cheng, Yu-Ching and Stanne, Tara M.
and Giese, Anne-Katrin and Ho, Weang Kee and Traylor, Matthew and Amouyel, Philippe and Holliday, Elizabeth G.
and Malik, Rainer and Xu, Huichun and Kittner, Steven J.
and Cole, John W.
and O'Connell, Jeffrey R.
and Danesh, John and Rasheed, Asif and Zhao, Wei and Engelter, Stefan and Grond-Ginsbach, Caspar and Kamatani, Yoichiro and Lathrop, Mark and Leys, Didier and Thijs, Vincent and Metso, Tiina M and Tatlisumak, Turgut and Pezzini, Alessandro and Parati, Eugenio A and Norrving, Bo and Bevan, Steve and Rothwell, Peter M.
and Sudlow, Cathie and Slowik, Agnieszka and Lindgren, Arne and Walters, Matthew R.
and Jannes, Jim and Shen, Jess and Crosslin, David and Doheny, Kimberly and Laurie, Cathy C.
and Kanse, Sandip M.
and Bis, Joshua C.
and Fornage, Myriam and Mosley, Thomas H.
and Hopewell, Jemma C.
and Strauch, Konstantin and Müller-Nurasyid, Martina and Gieger, Christian and Waldenberger, Melanie and Peters, Annette and Meisinger, Christine and Ikram, M Arfan and Longstreth, W.
T.
and Meschia, James F.
and Seshadri, Sudha and Sharma, Pankaj and Worrall, Bradford and Jern, Christina and Levi, Christopher and Dichgans, Martin and Boncoraglio, Giorgio B.
and Markus, Hugh S.
and Debette, Stephanie and Rolfs, Arndt and Saleheen, Danish and Mitchell, Braxton D.
(2016) Genome-wide association analysis of young-onset stroke identifies a locus on chromosome 10q25 near HABP2.
Stroke: a Journal of Cerebral Circulation, 47 (2).
307-16.
and Sudlow, Cathie L.M.
Traylor, Matthew and Anderson, Christopher D.
and Hurford, Robert and Bevan, Steve and Markus, Hugh S.
(2016) Oxidative phosphorylation and lacunar stroke.
Neurology, 86 (2).
141-145.
(2016) Oxidative phosphorylation and lacunar stroke: genome-wide enrichment analysis of common variants.
Traylor, Matthew and Zhang, Cathy R.
and Adib-Samii, Poneh and Devan, William J.
and Parsons, Owen E.
and Lanfranconi, Silvia and Gregory, Sarah and Cloonan, Lisa and Falcone, Guido J.
and Radmanesh, Farid and Fitzpatrick, Kaitlin and Kanakis, Allison and Barrick, Thomas R.
and Moynihan, Barry and Lewis, Cathryn M.
and Boncoraglio, Giorgio B.
and Lemmens, Robin and Thijs, Vincent and Sudlow, Cathie and Wardlaw, Joanna and Rothwell, Peter M.
and Levi, Christopher and Bevan, Steve and Furie, Karen L.
and Dichgans, Martin and Rosand, Jonathan and Markus, Hugh S.
and Rost, Natalia (2016) Genome-wide meta-analysis of cerebral white matter hyperintensities in patients with stroke.
146-153.
Gesierich, Benno and Opherk, Christian and Rosand, Jonathan and Gonik, Mariya and Malik, Rainer and Jouvent, Eric and Hervé, Dominique and Adib-Samii, Poneh and Bevan, Steve and Pianese, Luigi and Silvestri, Serena and Dotti, Maria T.
and De Stefano, Nicola and van der Grond, Jeroen and Boon, Elles M.
and Pescini, Francesca and Rost, Natalia and Pantoni, Leonardo and Lesnik Oberstein, Saskia A.
and Federico, Antonio and Ragno, Michele and Markus, Hugh S.
and Tournier-Lasserve, Elisabeth and Chabriat, Hugues and Dichgans, Martin and Duering, Marco and Ewers, Michael (2016) APOE ?2 is associated with white matter hyperintensity volume in CADASIL.
Journal of Cerebral Blood Flow & Metabolism.
ISSN: 0271-678X
Hanscombe, Ken B.
and Traylor, Matthew and Hysi, Pirro G.
and Bevan, Steve and Dichgans, Martin and Rothwell, Peter M.
and Seshadri, Sudha and Sudlow, Cathie and Williams, Frances M.
and Lewis, Cathryn M.
(2015) Genetic factors influencing coagulation factor XIII B-subunit contribute to risk of ischemic stroke.
Stroke, 46 (8).
2069-2074.
Rutten-Jacobs, Loes C.A.
and Boncoraglio, Giorgio and Dichgans, Martin and Bevan, Steve and Meschia, James and Levi, Christopher and Rost, Natalia S.
and Rosand, Jonathan and Hassan, Ahamad and Markus, Hugh S.
(2015) Common NOTCH3 variants and cerebral small-vessel disease.
Stroke, 46 (6).
1482-1487.
and Malik, Rainer and Sudlow, Cathie and Rothwell, Peter M.
and Maguire, Jane M.
and Koblar, Simon A.
and Bevan, Steve and Boncoraglio, Giorgio and Dichgans, Martin and Levi, Chris and Lewis, Cathryn M.
(2015) Differences in common genetic predisposition to ischemic stroke by age and sex.
Stroke: a journal of cerebral circulation, 46 (11).
3042-7.
Traylor, Matthew and Bevan, Steve and Baron, Jean-Claude and Hassan, Ahamad and Lewis, Cathryn M.
(2015) Genetic architecture of lacunar stroke.
Stroke; a journal of cerebral circulation, 46 (9).
2407-2412.
Kilarski, Laura L.
and Rutten-Jacobs, Loes C.
and Bevan, Steve and Baker, Rob and Hassan, Ahamad and Hughes, Derralynn A.
(2015) Prevalence of CADASIL and Fabry disease in a cohort of MRI defined younger onset lacunar stroke .
PloS one, 10 (8).
e0136352.
Rannikmae, K.
and Davies, G.
and Thomson, P.
and Bevan, Steve and Devan, W.
and Falcone, G.
and Traylor, M.
and Anderson, C.
and Battey, T.
and Radmanesh, F.
and Deka, R.
and Woo, J.
and Martin, L.
and Jimenez-Conde, J.
and Selim, M.
and Brown, D.
and Silliman, S.
and Kidwell, C.
and Montaner, J.
and Langefeld, C.
and Slowik, A.
and Hansen, B.
and Lindgren, A.
and Meschia, J.
and Fornage, M.
and Bis, J.
and Debette, S.
and Ikram, M.
and Longstreth, W.
and Schmidt, R.
and Zhang, C.
R.
and Yang, Q.
and Sharma, P.
and Kittner, S.
and Mitchell, B.
and Holliday, E.
and Levi, C.
and Attia, J.
and Rothwell, P.
and Poole, D.
and Boncoraglio, G.
and Psaty, B.
and Malik, R.
and Rost, N.
and Worrall, B.
and Dichgans, M.
and Van Agtmael, T.
and Woo, D.
and Markus, H.
and Seshadri, S.
and Rosand, J.
and Sudlow, C.
(2015) Common variation in COL4A1/COL4A2 is associated with sporadic cerebral small vessel disease.
Neurology, 84 (9).
918-926.
Adib-Samii, Poneh and Devan, William and Traylor, Matthew and Lanfranconi, Silvia and Zhang, Cathy R.
and Cloonan, Lisa and Falcone, Guido J.
and Radmanesh, Farid and Fitzpatrick, Kaitlin and Kanakis, Allison and Rothwell, Peter M.
and Sudlow, Cathie and Boncoraglio, Giorgio B.
and Levi, Chris and Dichgans, Martin and Bevan, Steve and Rosand, Jonathan and Rost, Natalia S.
(2015) Genetic architecture of white matter hyperintensities differs in hypertensive and nonhypertensive ischemic stroke.
Stroke, 46 (2).
348-353.
Holliday, Elizabeth G.
and Traylor, Matthew and Malik, Rainer and Bevan, Steve and Maguire, Jane and Koblar, Simon A.
and Sturm, Jonathan and Hankey, Graeme J.
and Oldmeadow, Christopher and McEvoy, Mark and Sudlow, Cathie and Rothwell, Peter M.
and Coresh, Josef and Hamet, Pavel and Tremblay, Johanne and Turner, Stephen T.
and de Andrade, Mariza and Rao, Madhumathi and Schmidt, Reinhold and Crick, Peter A.
and Robino, Antonietta and Peralta, Carmen A.
and Jukema, J.
Wouter and Mitchell, Paul and Rosas, Sylvia E.
and Wang, Jie Jin and Scott, Rodney J.
and Dichgans, Martin and Mitchell, Braxton D.
and Kao, W.H.
Linda and Fox, Caroline S.
and Levi, Christopher and Attia, John and Markus, Hugh S.
(2014) Polygenic overlap between kidney function and large artery atherosclerotic stroke.
Stroke, 45 (12).
3508-3513.
Markus, Hugh S.
and Bevan, Steve (2014) Mechanisms and treatment of ischaemic stroke: insights from genetic associations.
Nature Reviews Neurology, 10 (12).
723-730.
ISSN: 1759-4758
Kilarski, L.
and Achterberg, S.
and Devan, W.
and Pare, G.
and Thijs, V.
and Walters, M.
and Sale, M.
and Algra, A.
and Kappelle, L.
and Wijmenga, C.
and Norrving, B.
and Sandling, J.
and Ronnblom, L.
and Goris, A.
and Franke, A.
and Gretarsdottir, S.
and Thorsteinsdottir, U.
and Clarke, R.
and Hopewell, J.
and Thorleifsson, G.
and Stefanson, K.
and de Bakker, P.
and Farrall, M.
and Bevan, Steve (2014) Meta-analysis in more than 17,900 cases of ischemic stroke reveals a novel association at 12q24.12.
Neurology, 83 (8).
678-685.
Frayling, Timothy M.
and Traylor, Matthew and Mäkelä, Kari-Matti and Kilarski, Laura L.
and Devan, William J.
and Nalls, Mike A.
and Wiggins, Kerri L.
and Zhao, Wei and Cheng, Yu-Ching and Achterberg, Sefanja and Malik, Rainer and Sudlow, Cathie and Bevan, Steve and Raitoharju, Emma and Oksala, Niku and Thijs, Vincent and Lemmens, Robin and Lindgren, Arne and Slowik, Agnieszka and Maguire, Jane M.
and Walters, Matthew and Algra, Ale and Sharma, Pankaj and Attia, John R.
and de Bakker, Paul I.
and Saleheen, Danish and Kittner, Steven J.
and Rosand, Jonathan and Meschia, James F.
and Levi, Christopher and Dichgans, Martin and Lehtimäki, Terho and Lewis, Cathryn M.
(2014) A novel MMP12 locus Is associated with large artery atherosclerotic stroke Using a genome-wide age-at-onset informed approach.
PLoS Genetics, 10 (7).
e1004469.
ISSN: 1553-7390
Opherk, C.
and Gonik, M.
and Duering, M.
and Jouvent, E.
and Herve, D.
and Adib-Samii, P.
and Bevan, Steve and Pianese, L.
and Silvestri, S.
and Dotti, M.
and De Stefano, N.
and Liem, M.
and Boon, E.
and Pescini, F.
and Pachai, C.
and Bracoud, L.
and Muller-Myhsok, B.
and Meitinger, T.
and Pantoni, L.
and Lesnik Oberstein, S.
and Federico, A.
and Ragno, M.
and Tournier-Lasserve, E.
and Chabriat, H.
(2014) Genome-wide genotyping demonstrates a polygenic risk score associated with white matter hyperintensity volume in CADASIL.
Stroke, 45 (4).
968-972.
Thapaliya, Arjun and Nyathi, Yvonne and Martínez-Lumbreras, Santiago and Krysztofinska, Ewelina M.
and Evans, Nicola J.
and Terry, Isabelle L.
and High, Stephen and Isaacson, Rivka L.
(2016) SGTA interacts with the proteasomal ubiquitin receptor Rpn13 via a carboxylate clamp mechanism.
36622.
Leznicki, P.
and Korac-Prlic, J.
and Kliza, K.
and Husnjak, K.
and Nyathi, Y.
and Dikic, I.
and High, S.
(2015) Binding of SGTA to Rpn13 selectively modulates protein quality control.
Journal of Cell Science, 128 (17).
3187-3196.
ISSN: 0021-9533
Nyathi, Yvonne and Pool, Martin R.
(2015) Analysis of the interplay of protein biogenesis factors at the ribosome exit site reveals new role for NAC.
Journal of Cell Biology, 210 (2).
287-301.
ISSN: 0021-9525
The group comprises a unique team of internationally-renowned researchers working at the forefront of, and interface between, animal behaviour, cognition, health, and welfare.
The group’s vision is to create a strong, dynamic, and engaged research culture to carry out research that has the potential for real world impact at a local, national, and international level.
The group aims to understand the evolution and ecology of populations, species and communities across all levels of biological organisation, from genes through to ecosystems.
The research group has a multi-disciplinary approach to answering fundamental questions relating to the characterisation, evaluation, and testing of microorganisms and viruses.
Connect with Us

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/hcsci/pharmacyresearch/lspclinical:
The Clinical Pharmacy and Practice Research Group aims to enhance multidisciplinary collaboration between healthcare professionals from the Lincoln School of Pharmacy and healthcare researchers from across the wider University.
Our group provides opportunities for students to develop their research skills and conduct a specific lab-based or practice related clinical research project.
You can contact any member of our research group members in the drop-down menu below to find out more about the types of projects and opportunities currently on offer.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/natsci/lifesciencesresearch/diabetesmetabolisminflammation:
The Diabetes, Metabolism and Inflammation (DMI) group is housed within the Joseph Banks Laboratories at the University of Lincoln.
Formation of the DMI Group reflects the strategic recruitment of a number of established research-intensive academics with complementary research interests in the areas outlined above, with all members of the Group being recruited to the University within the last 5 years.
The Group’s vision is to create a strong, dynamic and engaged research culture to carry out research that has the potential for real world impact at a local, national and international level.
As the Group evolves and progresses it will look to increase its research through increasing national and international collaborative networks.
Members of the Group have established track records in the area of diabetes, both type 1 (Christie, Simmonds, Hills & Squires) and type 2 diabetes (Whitehead, Herbert, Squires & Hills), as well as diabetes complications (Hills & Squires) and metabolism and cardiovascular disease (Whitehead) and inflammation (Holden) as briefly outlined below.
Simmonds - Investigating genetic predictors of long-term pancreas transplant function in pancreas transplant donor and recipients with the goal of (i) improving methods of donor organ selection, (ii) identifying those at risk of graft loss (with the aim of using therapeutic intervention to prevent graft loss), and (iii) discovering potential therapeutic pathways to extend pancreas transplant function.
Christie - Identifying and characterizing pancreatic β-cell targets of the autoimmune response in Type 1 diabetes, with the view of developing novel strategies to identify individuals at risk for disease, and to apply antigen specific immune intervention to prevent disease progression in high-risk subjects.
Squires & Hills - are investigating the role of altered cell-cell communication in diabetic nephropathy, the leading cause of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) in patients with diabetes.
The ultimate aim is to identify potential therapeutic targets for the treatment and prevention of ESRD.
This work is being expanded to other areas with similar pathophysiology (fibrosis and inflammation), namely islet/pancreatic β-cell biology as well as diabetic retinopathy.
Whitehead - Characterising molecular pathways that (i) underpin healthy adipose tissue (fat) expansion and function to identify novel therapeutic strategies to facilitate the generation of “fit fat”, and thereby reduce obesity-associated cardio metabolic diseases such as type 2 diabetes and heart disease, and (ii) develop new strategies to improve cardio metabolic function via enhancing the adiponectin axis, a key anti-inflammatory axis.
Herbert  - determining the molecular basis for the development of beta-cell dysfunction in type 2 diabetes in order to develop new rational strategies for the treatment and prevention of this disease.
Current projects are focused on determining the molecular basis for the development of beta-cell dysfunction for drug target identification and subsequent validation.
Holden – Improving treatment of asthma and COPD (both increased in obesity - a recognised state of low grade, chronic inflammation) by defining the molecular mechanisms that promote resolution of inflammation, bronchoconstriction and airway remodelling.
The DMI Group enjoys strong links with the Lincoln Institute for Rural Health (LIRH), which provides additional opportunities to develop collaborative clinical and community based research, outreach and engagement.
Funding applications from members of the DMI Group typically address the following priorities of key funding organisations including:
The building features cutting-edge research and teaching facilities across four storeys, covering 6,000 square metres.
It includes a specialist category 2 microbiology containment facility equipped with safety cabinets, fermentation rigs and high speed centrifuges, two imaging suites containing a range of instruments (X-ray diffractometers, NMR spectrometer, Raman spectrometer, mass spectrometer, scanning electron microscope and light, fluorescence and atomic force microscopes) for studying molecular and cellular structures, four self-contained tissue culture laboratories, a molecular biology laboratory with dedicated spaces or rooms for PCR, gel electrophoresis, gel imaging gene cloning, microbiology, a flow cytometry laboratory and specialist rooms containing centrifuges and freezers.
There is a controlled access suite for the extraction and processing of samples with low levels of nucleic acids that minimizes contamination.
The building also houses seminar and tutorial rooms, as well as open plan social spaces to promote interactions between research groups in the facility.
Prof.
Paul E Squires
Co-Lead / Professor in Biomedical Science Diabetes and Endocrinology
psquires@lincoln.ac.uk
01522 88 6227
Terry Herbert
Professor of Pharmaceutical Sciences
therbert@lincoln.ac.uk
Dr Claire E.
Hills
Associate Professor / Programme Leader
Diabetes and Endocrinology
chills@lincoln.ac.uk
01522 88 6918
Dr Matthew Simmonds
Senior Lecturer in Biomedical Science / Programme Leader
Transplantation, Autoimmunity, Diabetes, Autoimmune Thyroid Disease & Genetics
msimmonds@lincoln.ac.uk
01522 88 6896
Dr Neil Holden
Senior Lecturer
Airway Inflammatory Diseases (Asthma & COPD) and Virology
nholden@lincoln.ac.uk
01522 88 6014
Dr Hanieh Yaghootkar
Senior Lecturer in Precision Health/ Biosciences
HYaghootkar@lincoln.ac.uk
Dr Caglar Gok
Lecturer in Biomedical Science
CGok@lincoln.ac.uk
Dr Forough Torabi Baghkomeh
PDRA with Christie
ftorabi@lincoln.ac.uk
Dr Mafalda Aresta-Branco
Post-Doctoral Research Assistant
MArestaBranco@lincoln.ac.uk
Miss Choa Ping Ng
Research Assistant in Molecular Basis of Disease
cng@lincoln.ac.uk
Dr Claire Moore
Research Fellow with Herbert
cmoore@lincoln.ac.uk
Mr Rhys Wardman
PhD Student with Herbert
rwardman@lincoln.ac.uk
Mr Kristian Boasman
PhD Student
kboasman@lincoln.ac.uk
Mr Ahmed Al-Bazaz
aalbazaz@lincoln.ac.uk
Miss Joanna Ward
JoaWard@lincoln.ac.uk
Usman Shah
Miss Paige Philips
PPhillips@lincoln.ac.uk
Associate Members
Previous Members
School of Life Sciences, University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool, Lincoln.
LN6 7TS
email: enquiries@lincoln.ac.uk tel: + 44 (0)1522 886654
Current funding:
Completed grants secured at Lincoln:
Completed grants secured elsewhere:
LN6 7TS email: enquiries@lincoln.ac.uk tel: + 44 (0)1522 886654

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/hcsci/pharmacyresearch/lspdiscovery:
The Drug Discovery, Design and Delivery Research Group builds upon expertise within the School of Pharmacy and the College of Health and Science as a whole.
Our work covers pre-clinical aspects of the drug discovery and development pipeline from the identification of novel drug targets, the design of new and improved drugs and antibiotics, to the development of improved methods of delivery.
Our aims are to:
- Identify new drug targets
- Design and discover new drugs
- Develop innovative approaches for drug delivery
Our multidisciplinary group includes organic chemists, structural biologists, pharmacologists, and pharmaceutical scientists who work collaboratively to utilise state-of-the-art technologies and methodologies.
We have strong links with the pharmaceutical industry and the Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology, the Lincoln Institute of Rural Health, the National Centre for Food Manufacturing, and the Schools of Engineering, Chemistry, and Life Sciences.
If you are an aspiring postgraduate student for the School of Pharmacy and have a keen interest in one of the fields outlined above, please email our postgraduate tutor, Dr Emma Wright, using the button below.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/hcsci/healthandsocialcareresearch/harg:
The Healthy Ageing Research Group (HARG) is allied with the Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health (LIIRH) .
Key areas of interest include experiences of ageing; healthy ageing; preventative and early intervention strategies in quality of later life through improved community and statutory provisions, including integration.
Research in our group aims to support the challenges faced by an increasing global life expectancy and ageing populations.
Our research aims to contribute to developing strategies which maximise the benefits of an ageing society as well as considering strategies to address the challenges.
Our aims:
Professor Mo Ray
Health and Social Care Integration/Director of Research
Professor Steve McKay
Distinguished Professor in Social Research
Reader, Lincoln School of Design and Architecture
Senior Lecturer, School of Health and Care Sciences
Research Assistant, School of Health and Care Sciences
Global Professor of Rural Health and Care, Lincoln International Institute of Rural Health
Global Professor in Machine Learning, School of Engineering and Physical Sciences
Research Fellow in Rural Health and Care, Lincoln International Institute of Rural Health
Senior Lecturer in Public Health, School of Medicine
Research Fellow, School of Health Care Sciences
Research Associate, School of Health Care Sciences
Senior Lecturer, School of Psychology, Sport Science, and Wellbeing
Associate Professor, School of Psychology, Sport Science, and Wellbeing
Associate Lecturer, School of Psychology, Sport Science, and Wellbeing
Lecturer in Sports Psychology, School of Psychology, Sport Science, and Wellbeing
Dr Haydn Bird
Mr Stephen Johnson
Adults Supporting Adults
Chief Executive, LINCa (consortium of third sector organisations)
Chief Executive, Healthwatch Lincoln
Chief Executive, LACE Housing
Employment & Skills Team Leader, Greater Lincolnshire LEP
Michele Seddon
Chief Executive, Age UK, Lincoln
Fiona White
Chief Executive, Community Lincs
Thomas George
Rebecca Turner
CaHRU’s mission is to increase people’s health and well-being by improving the quality, performance, and systems of care across the health, social, and third sector care services.
The primary focus of this research group is to provide expert resources to government policy strategists, health, social, and education economies to create and drive innovation in health and social care settings.
The Lincoln Clinical Trials Unit (LinCTU) was setup in 2020 at the University of Lincoln by the Community & Health Research Unit to support clinical trials.
School of Health and Care Sciences Research Groups

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/hcsci/healthandsocialcareresearch/mh2asc:
MH2aSC has evolved to encompass a broader range of research activity that involves social care and adult health, particularly cancer care through a partnership with Macmillan.
Key themes of our research include mental health, health and social care integration, values-based practice, workforce development, and service innovation and improvement.
Current project areas: - Cancer care: we work closely with Macmillan Cancer Support and the local health economy to investigate the care of cancer patients following completion of their treatment - Workforce development: MH2aSC are involved in the development of new clinical academic careers of nurses, midwives and allied health professionals for the regional health economy - Conscientious objection: our group is exploring the impact of the emotional labour of health and social care and its relationship to professional and personal conscience Throughout the course of our research, we have developed a network of international and national collaborators and offer PhD supervision, we a lso support the development of clinical academics and other early career researchers (ECRs).
Dr Ros Kane
Associate Professor
Dr Ian McGonagle
Dr Maria Joyce
Dr David Nelson
Research Fellow
Emma Sayers
Research Assistant
Heidi Green
Research Assistant (Health & Social Care)
Dr Sam Cooke
Research Associate
Rachel Mason
Senior Lecturer in Health and Social Care
Dr Stephanie Armstrong
Senior Lecturer in Health Quality Improvement/ Programme Leader
Senior Lecturer / Programme Leader
Dr Joseph Akanuwe
Post-Doctoral Research Associate in Primary Care & Public Health Research
Dr Hannah Henderson
Prof Jacqui Allen-Collinson
Professor Emerita in Sociology and Physical Cultures
Prof Kate Grafton
Head of the School of Health and Social Care
Carol Duff
Senior Lecturer and Consultant Therapist
Janice Wisenam
Senior Lecturer in Adult Nursing
Dr Iwona Zielinska
Visiting Research Fellow and Marie Curie International Fellow
Connect Online:

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/natsci/lifesciencesresearch/microbiologyandbiotechnology:
We have a multi-disciplinary approach to answering fundamental questions relating to the characterisation, evaluation and testing of microorganisms and viruses.
This could be for example, investigating the activity of new antimicrobials or defining the structure of bacterial proteins.
Structural biology is an important tool we use to investigate the 3-D structures of biomolecules and explain biological interactions.
The figure below shows some of the key steps for an X-ray crystallographic study used to solve the protein structure of a bacterial cell wall “re- structuring” enzyme from Bacillus anthracis.
(a) X-ray diffraction pattern (b) and (c) structure of the “re- structuring” enzyme known as an autolysin.
We have a wide range of expertise focussed on using living systems and organisms to develop products.
Our research utilises many techniques, from protein biochemistry and structural techniques to cell culture and bio-conjugation.
We are developing new methods to design bio-therapeutics and we are assessing and developing novel delivery strategies.
The group has developed strong collaborations across the College of Health and Science, the Lincoln Institute for Health, the Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology and the College of Arts, Social Sciences and Humanties.
Associate Professor and research group leader/point of contact
Associate Professor in Bioveterinary Science/Programme Leader
Lecturer in Animal Health and Disease
Senior Lecturer in Biochemistry/Programme Leader
Group research follows a multi-disciplinary and highly collaborative approach to increase understanding of disease characteristically associated with ageing at the molecular level, to improve prevention, diagnosis, and treatment.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/hh/research/medievalstudiesresearchgroup:
The Medieval and Early Modern Studies Research Group brings together academics, archivists, librarians, postgraduate students, and postdoctoral researchers with interdisciplinary interests both in the medieval period itself and in the later interpretation and representation of the pre-modern past.
We have a strong relationship with the wider scholarly and professional community including Lincoln Cathedral Library and Archives, with whom we collaborate in our teaching and research.
Key themes include: premodern Iberia and the Western Mediterranean; Lincoln, Britain and the North Atlantic; gender and identity, society and culture; inter-faith exchanges and religion; and archives, heritage, and medievalism.
We foster academic links within and beyond the University of Lincoln through hosting external speakers; organizing the annual Lincoln medieval lecture and ‘Medieval and Eraly Modern Week’; hosting international conferences; and contributing to national and international research networks and projects.
Our research group's news can be followed on our blog .
As a research group, we edit Studies in Medieval and Renaissance Studies , published by ARC Humanities Press.
Read our open access special issue, Lincoln Readings of Texts, Materials, and Contexts .
The group explores a wide range of topics, including the power and authority of Iberian rulers (both Christian and Islamic); economy and society in pre-modern Iberia; and the Visigoths.
Research topics include the archaeology and history of medieval Lincolnshire; the church in the medieval diocese of Lincoln; English royal government in the thirteenth century; and trade in the medieval North Atlantic.
Examining medieval gender, identity, culture, and society throughout the Middle Ages, including the legacy of Rome in Late Antiquity through to the late Middle Ages; medieval literature and culture; and the history of women, children, and families.
The Medieval Studies Research Group examines inter-faith exchanges and religion throughout the Middle Ages, with particular attention on the Western Mediterranean world.
Group members work with, study, and publish widely on archives and medieval records, and also interpret the medieval past for the public.
Follow us @LincolnMedieval for regular updates on our research and other news.
Follow Us
A list of the members of the Medieval Studies Research Group at the University of Lincoln.
View a list of key publications by members of the Medieval Studies Research Group.
We welcome applications at any time from prospective applicants for our taught MA in Medieval Studies, and from prospective PhD students wishing to join our thriving postgraduate research community.
Please use the links in the table to view previous events.
Medieval and Early Modern Week 2025
Expanding Our Horizons
Research Seminars - Semester A, October 2023 to January 2024
Medieval Studies Research Seminars
Medieval Week 2022
Liminal Identities in Medieval Worlds.
A Medieval Sound Bites Podcast
'Recovering Voices: Women, Christians, and Conversion in the Early Medieval Period' - Nicola Meyrick and Susan Phillips.
'Medieval Heritage and Archives in the Modern Era' - Lynsey Coombs and Bethany Elliott.
'PGR Feature: Archives and Animals' - Katherine Delaney and Gary Stephen.
'A Medieval Scribe in the Modern Day: the Illuminations of Toni Watts'.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/natsci/lifesciencesresearch/animalbehaviourcognitionandwelfare:
We are a unique team of internationally renowned researchers working at the forefront of, and interface between life, environmental, health, computing, and social sciences.
Our cross-disciplinary research benefits from strong links with members of the School of Psychology and the School of Computer Science, as well as other research groups within the School of Life & Environmental Sciences, particularly the Evolution and Ecology Research Group and the Lincoln Institute for Agri-food Technology .
We collaborate in our pursuit of excellence, with multidisciplinarity at the heart of much of what we do, working in partnership internally and externally (nationally and internationally), and with other leading universities, charities, government organisations, and businesses.
We have an established track record of research funding from Government, Charity and Industry as we seek to translate fundamental research to real world impact.
Significant investment for our research has been obtained from research organisations such as BBSRC , Defra , dstl , ONR , NC3Rs, as well as charitable and commercial organisations, including RSPCA , UFAW , Boehringer Ingelheim , CEVA Santé Animale , Dogs Trust , Border Force.
In addition, we offer external consultancy and continuous professional development courses to those wishing to work with leading authorities in animal behaviour, cognition, health and welfare.
This includes members of the animal care and pet food industry, agricultural producers, veterinary pharmaceutical companies, television and other media as well as clinical behaviour services .
We challenge the status quo in order to explore and identify new, inclusive and innovative ways to address complex contemporary issues of regional, national and global significance.
Follow us on Facebook at facebook.com/ABCWResearchGroup
The Animal Behaviour, Cognition and Welfare Research Group uses a multidisciplinary approach to generate and translate research for the purposes of providing innovative, practical solutions for the benefit of society, including for all animal species with which we interact.
Our vision is to be a transformative force for good within society, enabling excellent health, welfare and prosperity within an inter-connected and complex world.
Our long-term ambition is to maintain and grow our global reputation for research excellence relating to animal behaviour, cognition, health and welfare.
As a civic university , we believe it is important that we articulate our values as they reflect who we are and what we stand for.
Our guiding principles are:
We accept personal responsibility for the wellbeing of people, our community, the environment and animals with whom we co-exist.
We are committed to morally responsible research and the promotion of ethical practices.
We have the courage to challenge each other respectfully in order to expand the boundaries of scientific understanding and maintain rigorous standards.
We prioritise inclusive practices in all our work, embracing difference through a global mindset that recognises the value and inclusive benefit  of diversity, especially in relation to gaining greater insight into complex problems and their solutions.
We strive for excellence in everything we do, holding high expectations of our performance and the impact of our research.
This is enabled by our excellent facilities which include internationally recognised behaviour, perception and cognition laboratories for vertebrate and invertebrate species, the university farm and related research facilities at Riseholme.
We work collaboratively, creatively, and innovatively as a team and with a range of stakeholders in order to co-create research, inform policy and deliver solutions with meaningful economic and societal impact.
Animal cognition investigates the way animals perceive the world.
We are interested in how animals learn about their environment, how they use and retain this information, and how it impacts the decisions that they make.
Clinical animal behaviour research focuses on how we can better evaluate the behaviour of animals in order to interact with them, manage them and train them in ways that optimise their wellbeing.
We also develop new treatment methods for helping animals with problem behaviour.
We couple our strengths in cognitive biology, clinical animal behaviour, and animal health and disease with approaches from the social sciences, as we translate our findings into real-world impact that involves addressing human and societal factors.
Animal welfare is a growing scientific discipline reflecting considerable public concern.
Our research in animal welfare is led by a multi-disciplinary team of international experts, who work with a variety of animals including laboratory, farm, companion, and zoo animals.
Animals are under constant pressures from disease, the environment, and human activity.
When animals are unable to overcome these pressures, their welfare suffers.
We are passionate about improving the health of companion, farmed, and wild animals of all types.
One Health encompasses human, animal, and environmental health and is covered by the groups's work on animal health and human animal interactions.
Disease transmission has led to major outbreaks over the last few years, including COVID-19, Ebola, and influenza.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/natsci/geographyresearch/catchmentsandcoastsresearchgroup:
Catchment and coastal processes affect billions of people across the globe in the most diverse ways, e.g.
by providing water resources and natural habitat, by providing suitable grounds for extensive agricultural activity, human settlements and recreational environments, as a host of abundant biodiversity, and as a source of threats from natural disasters such as flooding or erosion.
With increasing impacts arising from human activities in river catchments, coastal systems and ongoing climate change, these threats to natural habitats, biodiversity and resident communities are increasingly exacerbated.
To gain a more detailed understanding of these impacts, CCRG considers catchments and coasts as interconnected and integrated systems, which are critically important to understand the outcomes of climate change and human impacts (e.g.
land-use change) for rivers, catchments and coastal zones.
Hard engineering (i.e.
the construction of hard flood protection infrastructure) has traditionally been applied to address flooding and erosion related risks in river catchments and coastal systems.
However, the scientific community as well as catchment and coastal managers are increasingly recognizing the urgent need for utilizing natural dynamics to reduce risks from flooding and erosion, thereby enhancing the sustainability of flood and erosion mitigation strategies, restoring natural habitats, increasing biodiversity, enhancing groundwater recharge, and creating additional sinks for atmospheric carbon to support national net-zero carbon target.
However, to develop innovative and effective NBS, it is of critical importance to work with (rural) communities to adequately quantify economic impacts of NBS and develop strategies for communities to benefit from the implementation of NBS.
In CCRG, we aim to bridge the gap between catchment and coastal managers wanting to implement NBS and resident communities for the successful implementation of these schemes.
Catchment processes include the interconnection of the terrestrial and aquatic environment.
Our catchments are sensitive to changes in climate, land-use, and natural processes.
Our research focuses on understanding the fundamental processes that determine river forms and behaviours, changes due to direct human disturbances and climate change, and lies at the interface between geomorphology, ecology and hydrology.
Coastal landscapes are formed by the power of waves and tides, and depend on sediments delivered by rivers.
Our research aims to estimate future coastal landscapes through modelling and the reconstruction of past coastal environments.
Human impact and climate change exert increasing pressures on freshwater resources globally.
These pressures include increased discharges on nutrients and pollutants, salinization of coastal ground water resources and deterioration of water quality as a consequence of increased intensity, and frequency of wild and bushfires.
Nature-based solutions utilise natural ecosystem services to address existing social and environmental issues.
They are generally sustainable and low cost, and provide wide benefits; however, difficult to quantify the actual values.
Our research aims to assess those social and environmental benefits through field surveys and numerical modelling.
Follow us on Twitter @CCRG_Lincoln for regular updates on our research and other news.
CCRG is involved in a wide range of externally and internally funded research projects.
These collaborative research projects deliver inclusive and interdisciplinary research to address the interdisciplinary challenges at hand and actively involve researchers of all career stages.
To optimize the impact of our research, CCRG members actively publish their research in specialist and high-impact scientific journals, as well as in outlets designed for wider/public audiences.
Fostering PGR researchers in the field of catchment and coastal research is one of CCRG’s key strategic aims.
Our PGR students study a wider range of disciplinary and interdisciplinary projects, which are often embedded in our broader research projects.
CCRG members involve junior to senior academics, PGR researchers, professional staff, and an advisory board from across the University of Lincoln and beyond.
CCRG members cover a range of subject expertise to foster interdisciplinary collaboration.
Meet the Team
We are keen to expand CCRG and involve new professionals in studying and managing catchment and coastal systems.
Interested individuals may submit an expression of interest to join CCRG.
College of Health and Science University of Lincoln Brayford Pool Campus Lincoln LN6 7TS
cohsenquiries@lincoln.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/natsci/lifesciencesresearch/evolutionandecology:
The Evolution and Ecology research group is a highly collaborative, multi-disciplinary community of academics, postgraduate students, and postdoctoral researchers.
We aim to understand the evolution and ecology of populations, species, and communities across all levels of biological organisation, from genes through to ecosystems.
Key themes within our research include the diversification of species over time, the response of species, populations and communities to global change, and behavioural ecology.
Our interdisciplinary research benefits from strong links with members of the School of Psychology and the School of Computer Science, other research groups within Life Sciences, particularly the Animal Behaviour, Cognition and Welfare group , and through a network of national and international collaborations.
We rely on ecosystems to provide food and shelter.
How can we understand such complexity and how do we make such systems more resilient to the many and various human impacts?
Understanding the behavioural and physiological strategies of organisms and how they evolve and respond to changing social and environmental conditions is key to understanding and preserving this biodiversity.
Our research ignores disciplinary boundaries and is linked by the central theme of using physics and engineering principles as a way of understanding complex problems in biology.
The COVID-19 pandemic highlighted the fundamental importance of the ecology of disease both in humans and in other organisms and highlighted the links between our own diseases and those of other animals and plants.
We use fossil records to untangle models of group diversification, patterns of trait evolution over time, and the response of biota to global- and local-scale environmental changes and to mass extinctions.
Follow us @EvolEcoLincoln for regular updates on our research and other news.
A list of the members of the Evolution and Ecology research group at the University of Lincoln.
View a list of key publications by members of the Evolution and Ecology Research Group.
We welcome applications from prospective MSc by Research, MPhil, and PhD students wishing to join our thriving postgraduate research community.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/psyspw/psychologyresearch/dasb:
We are an interdisciplinary team of developmental, social, and evolutionary psychologists who investigate the development of cognitive, language, social, emotional, motor and behavioural processes that affect interpersonal, intergroup, and interspecies attitudes, cognition, emotion, and behaviour.
Our Research is Different
As well as directly contributing theory and knowledge to developmental psychology, our work has significant and wide-ranging impacts on real world issues, policy, and practice.
Members of our Research Group have received prestigious awards and grants from a range of funding bodies, including ESRC, the National Institute of Health, the Primate Society of Great Britain, the Leakey Foundation.
We have also repeatedly won prestigious funding from charities and industry, e.g., from Waltham and MARS.
Our group members actively engage in consultancy work for government departments, businesses, and third-sector organisations such as the World Health Organisation, Government departments nationally and internationally, People United, Department for Work and Pensions, the International Union for the Conservation of Nature, and the Leadership Foundation for Higher Education.
We also organise workshops and hold public talks and events within the community, such as the Summer Scientist for families or stakeholder workshops on safe Animal-assisted Interventions.
Crossing Boundaries
We believe there is clear scientific value in crossing boundaries between psychology and traditionally distinct scientific disciplines such as anthropology, economics, linguistics, ethology, medicine, veterinary medicine, physiology and epidemiology.
Our academic staff and community of postgraduate students collaborate with researchers at national and international universities, charities and businesses.
Our research areas include:
• Developmental Psychology
• Human-animal interaction
• Interventions
• Decision-making
• Behaviour and Evolution
• Motivation and Memory
• Neurodevelopmental disorders
• Health, Risk and Injury Prevention
This research teram will be looking at how dogs can help children learn and develop in the classroom environment.
Prof Kerstin Meints (Lead)
Dr Valentina Sclafani (Deputy)
Dr Lesley Allinson
Prof Bino Majolo
Dr Laetitia Marechal
Dr Kirsty Miller
Dr Michael Mireku
Ms Charlotte Cartledge
Visiting Prof: Dr Sandra McCune
The Cognitive Research Group is a collection of researchers at the University of Lincoln, who undertake research on a broad range of perceptual and higher cognitive functions.
Research within the FCRG involves the application of psychological knowledge and methods to areas relating to crime and justice.
The School of Psychology Sport Science and Wellbeing has a strong and growing reputation for excellent fundamental and applied research with international impact.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/psyspw/psychologyresearch/fcrg:
Specific core research topics within the FCRG include: Public attitudes (e.g., attitudes towards people who have offended and their reintegration into society); Gambling and addiction (e.g., identifying and managing risk factors for addiction); Forensic practice research (e.g., the assessment and treatment of offending behaviours, occupational stress among staff working in high-stress environments, and trauma resilience in forensic populations and staff); Investigative and courtroom issues (e.g., supporting transitions and families of people with criminal convictions, accuracy of testimony, police investigation techniques.
and courtroom practice); Understanding offending (e.g., examining processes and factors associated with offence-related cognitions and fantasies); and Service evaluations (e.g., evaluating the delivery and efficacy of local rehabilitation schemes).
MSc in Forensic Psychology is topically linked: https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/course/frspsyms
Ross Bartels (lead)
Georgina Gous (deputy)
Lauren Smith
Rachael Dagnall
Hannah Merdian
Tochukwu Onwuegbusi
Phil Wilmott
Matt King-Parker
An interdisciplinary team of developmental, social, and evolutionary psychologists who investigate the development of cognitive, language, social, emotional, motor and behavioural processes that affect interpersonal, intergroup, and interspecies attitudes, cognition, emotion, and behaviour.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/psyspw/psychologyresearch/pac:
The Cognitive Research Group is a collection of researchers at the University of Lincoln, who undertake research on a broad range of perceptual and higher cognitive functions by combining different methods such as eye tracking, electroencephalogram (EEG), transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), physiological measurements (skin conductance response; heart rate variability) and functional Near Infrared Spectroscopy (fNIRS).
Core research topics include Face perception (e.g., face recognition, face learning, social information conveyed in faces, and the use of automatic face recognition technology); Neural plasticity (e.g., neural changes after visual sensory deprivation and enriched environments); Technologies to improve perceptual functions and to support person-centred care in residential care (e.g., video games such as Eyelander and Cognitive Daisy); sleep (e.g., the role of REM sleep in directed forgetting of emotional words); human-dog emotion communication (e.g., to investigate emotional expression and perception in dogs, human-animal interaction); visual attention and process in human social cognition (e.g., how affective visual cues are processed in the brain).
Prof Timothy Hodgson
Dr Kay Ritchie
Dr Tessa Flack
Prof Kun Guo (Lead)
Dr Garry Wilson
Dr Julia Foecker (Deputy)
Dr Umair Akram
Tim's Modules:
PSY9221M Research Methods in Perception and Cognition
PSY9226M From the lab to the world: Psychology Research in Practice
Tim is also the leader for the Masters in Psychological Research Methods programme as an opportunity for students to do research work with members of the cognition research group.
Robin's Module:
PSY9247M Evolution and Human Social Behaviour
Julia's Module:
PSY9249M Brain Behaviour and Lifespan Development

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/psyspw/psychologyresearch/phwrg:
Our research group specialises in developing and applying contemporary psychological science to address health-related challenges.
Our focus is on improving the interventions, services, and technologies offered to individuals experiencing psychological and/or physical health difficulties – and advancing understanding of the psychological processes that promote wellbeing and personally-meaningful behaviour change.
Research interests within the group are aligned to the UK mental health research agenda 2020-2030, namely: mental health for children and young people (goal 1), links between physical and mental health (goal 2), development of new interventions for mental health (goal 3), and improving choice and decision-making in routine care settings (goal 4).
Our research group connects with the broader university theme of Health and Wellbeing.
For the latest information on research activities within our group, please visit https://phew.blogs.lincoln.ac.uk/

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/psyspw/psychologyresearch/sprg:
The Social Psychology Research Group conducts research on individuals' emotions, thoughts and behaviours in diverse social contexts.
Using a broad range of qualitative and quantitative methodologies, we aim to improve people's personal and relationship wellbeing by enhancing our understanding of the antecedents and consequences of social perceptions and behaviours and the cultural contexts in which they are embedded.
Primary areas of specialisation include social identities, relationships and adult attachment; gender and families, sexism, objectification and feminist theory; psychology of religion, moral judgements, justice beliefs and mortality awareness; body image, attractiveness and eating disorders; music and emotion regulation; social networks, organisations and digitalisation; intergroup relations, racism and citizenship.
Our interdisciplinary research involves colleagues in sociology, social policy, anthropology, creative arts, business studies and health and social care.
We receive European and local funding and work in collaboration with prominent scholars in the UK and internationally.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/engphys/engineeringresearch/industrialdigitalisationandsystemintelligence:
The IDSI group, currently led by Prof.
Dirk Scharefer focuses on use-inspired cross-sector research that is steered by three sub-groups:
The fusion of these three sub-groups creates strong intra- and inter-disciplinary links that strengthen research and increase its impact.
We work in close partnership with the stakeholders and end-users in the Automotive, Aerospace, Space, Energy, Telecommunication, IT, Agri-Food and Healthcare sectors.
The firm industry-academic partnership helps us develop innovative solutions and rapidly test our technologies.
Internally, we collaborate with researchers in the School of Engineering and Physical Sciences , School of Natural Sciences , School of Psychology, Sport Science, and Wellbeing , Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology , National Centre for Food Manufacturing , Lincoln International Business School , Lincoln Medical School and Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health .
Please visit our sub-groups for more details.
JPL Robotics/NASA, USA
Space Systems Laboratory, University of Maryland, USA
West Virginia University, USA
DEI — University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy
Xi'an Jiatong University, State Key Laboratory of Electrical Insulation and Power Equipment, Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an, China
Volvo Group, Trucks Technology, Sweden
Volvo Car Corporation, Sweden
CRRC, China
Universiti Teknologi PETRONAS, Malaysia
H uawei, China
Tongji University, Shanghai, China
Chalmers University of Technology, Sweden
Auckland University of Technology, New Zealand
Sultan Qaboos University
University of Gävle - Högskolan i Gävle
Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad, India
Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee, India
Indian Institute of Technology, Jodhpur, India
Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology, Shibpur, West Bengal, India
University of South Florida, Tampa, USA
Indraprastha Institute of Information Technology (IIITD), Delhi, India
Multi-robot Systems, Czech Technical University in Prague
International University of Rabat, Morocco
Nanjing Agricultural University, China
Necmettin Erbakan University, Konya, Turkey
Soochow University, Suzhou, China
CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
Siemens Energy, UK
Veolia, UK
Faculty AI, UK
Performance Projects, UK
Printed Motor Works Ltd, UK
SAGA Robotics Ltd, UK
ARWAC, UK
Perpetual Labs, UK
Autodesk, UK
LPW Technology Ltd, UK
Department of Engineering, University of Cambridge, UK
School of Electronics and Computer Science, University of Southampton, UK
Airbus Defence and Space, UK
Satellite Applications Catapult, UK
GMV Innovative Solutions, UK
Surrey Satellite Technology Ltd, UK
Astroscale, UK
D-Orbit New Space Solutions, UK
Infinite Orbits, UK
Thales Alenia Space, UK
Frazer-Nash Consultancy Ltd, UK
Added Value Solutions, UK
RHEA Group, UK
Alden Legal, UK
Shadow Robot, UK
Inovo Robotics, UK
Sundance Multiprocessor Technology Ltd, UK
Cambridge University Hospitals - Fertility Clinic, UK
Kustodian, UK
Touchlab, UK
Open University, UK
Department of Electronic Engineering, University of York, UK
School of Aerospace, Transport and Manufacturing, Cranfield University, UK
School of Electronic and Electrical Engineering, University of Leeds, UK
Pretorian Technologies, UK
London South Bank University | London South Bank University, UK
Lab4Living,  Sheffield Hallam University, UK
Edinburgh Neuroprosthetics, University of Edinburgh, UK
School of Science, Engineering and Environment, University of Salford, UK
Imperial College London, UK
University College London, UK
University of Surrey, UK
Centre for Advanced Robotics, Queen Mary University of London, UK
Our research surrounding health monitoring and diagnostics is focused on developing algorithms and techniques that continuously monitor complex systems to detect/predict abnormal system behaviour.
We specially develop model-based and AI-based algorithms for condition monitoring of industrial gas turbines.
The pioneering robotics research at Lincoln’s School of Engineering and Physical Sciences focuses on advancing the technologies that bind together Mechatronics, Automation, and Control for meticulously designing smarter robots.
Our vision is to facilitate the digital transformation of these industries and improve their efficiency.
The novel Internet of Things and Wireless Sensor Networks research at the School of Engineering and Physical Sciences focuses on enabling the technologies that bind together aspects of Communication, Networks, and Embedded Systems applied to Agri-Food, Smart Cities, Autonomous Systems, Water Management, and Healthcare.
The Power and Energy Group (PEG) conducts fundamental and applied research in all aspects of power and energy production, distribution, industrial prognostics and diagnostics, and control, with key application sectors including low carbon/emissions engines, gas turbines, energy storage and peak power buffer technologies, smart energy, and renewables.
School of Engineering and Physical Sciences, College of Health and Science University of Lincoln, Isaac Newton Building, Brayford Pool, University of, Lincoln LN6 7TS

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/engphys/computerscienceresearch/intlab:
The interactive technologies lab (intLab) is a Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) research group based in the School of Computer Science.
HCI is a multidisciplinary field, therefore the research group unites a broad range of members with expertise in computer science, psychology, and design, and involves a range of collaborations with other disciplines and universities.
The goal of intLab is to study, design, and implement technologies that are usable, efficient, and enjoyable, putting people at the centre of our research.
The group works on a range of aspects of HCI, including designing technologies for accessibility and educational needs.
Intlab also has a long-standing interest in games and playful interactive systems, focusing on player experience in video games, the design of immersive virtual reality and augmented reality-based experiences, and using games as a research method.
IntLab's research covers many different themes including virtual reality, games, accessibility, education, physiological, and internet of things.
A list of the members of intLab at the University of Lincoln.
View key publications produced by members of intLab.
Lincoln School of Engineering and Physical Sciences University of Lincoln Brayford Pool Campus Lincoln LN6 7TS
01522 886644

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/geography/research/lincolnclimateresearchgroup:
To establish the University’s standing and increased reputation for quality research and strategic partnerships with funders, government, and business, we have chosen to actively place research centres and groups at the heart of our strategic plans.
Development, Inequality, Resilience and Environments addresses the most urgent and immediate threats to the resilience of human-environment systems and seeks to understand the complex interactions between societies and the landscapes they inhabit that precipitate vulnerability, including rural and urban dynamics.
Tackling climate change and reversing environmental degradation are among the most important tasks facing the world in the 21st century.
University of Lincoln climate researchers are developing innovative solutions to the challenge of sustainability through inter-disciplinary research in key areas, including climate science, impacts, adaptation, policy, and governance.
School of Natural Sciences College of Health and Science University of Lincoln Brayford Pool Campus Lincoln LN6 7TS

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/engphys/engineeringresearch/sustainableenergyandpower:
The SEP research group, led by Prof Chris Bingham , is comprised of two sub-groups:
The SEP research group leads systems thinking and applied research to develop new energy delivery approaches for heat and electricity.
As society is rapidly moving into a Whole Systems Place-Based understanding using combined demand profiles, our group leads in the Distributed Generation and Local Area Energy Management approach being developed in the UK and internationally.
This reduces net requirements, introducing new technologies around hydrogen and storage into the medium scale solutions (MESO) for society’s needs, allowing effective engagement by users and suppliers for truly sustainable solutions.
Our experience in technologies and AI is key to delivering the change needed now.
The two sub-groups' highly integrated activities promote a strong multidisciplinary research culture that enhances the reach and significance of its outcomes, both nationally and internationally.
Partners and stakeholders span the automotive, aerospace, industrial, health, communications, defence, power, agritech and food and drink sector, and other commercial sectors.
Internally, we actively collaborate with researchers in the School of Engineering and Physical Sciences , School of Natural Sciences , School of Health and Care Sciences , Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology (LIAT), and the National Centre for Food Manufacturing .
School of Engineering, University of Leicester, UK
General Electric, Grid Solutions, Research & Technology, Stafford, UK
Brunel University London, UK
Ultra Ele ctronics Controls, Cambridge, UK
Triumph Controls Group, Chester, UK
Diamond Light Source, UK
IMS Evolve, Milton Keynes, UK
Grimsby Institute’s Food Refrigeration and Process Engineering Research Centre, Grimsby, UK
RU Robots Ltd, UK
Proseal UK Ltd, UK
Bakkavor UK Ltd
Marks & Spencer plc., UK
Teledyne e2v Technologies Ltd, UK
Littleport Mushroom Farms LLP, G's FRESH, UK
METIS Aerospace, Lincoln, UK
Merlin Polyurethanes, Spalding, UK
Engys Ltd, Richmond, UK
The University of Hertfordshire, Hatfield, UK
Hybrid Air Vehicles, Cardington, UK
Politecnico di Torino, Turin, Italy
Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Belgium
Arescomo S.P.A, Aprilia, Italy
Universite Bretagne Sud, Brittany, France
Alma Mater Studiorum - Universita Di Bologna, Italy
Southern Federal University, Rostov on Don, Russia
Logistic Network Consultants GmbH, Hannover, Germany
Universidade Da Beira Interior, Covilha, Portugal
Universita Degli Studi Di Modena E Reggio Emilia, Modena, Italy
Nimbus SRL, Lombardore, Italy
School of Electrical Engineering, Chongqing University, China
Department of Electrical Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China
State Grid Jibei Electric Power Co.
Ltd.
Research Institute, North China Electric Power Research Institute Co.
Ltd., Beijing, China
Department of Physics, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, Nigeria
INIFTA, CONICET, Universidad Nacional de la Plata, La Plata, Argentina
Institute of High Voltage and High Current, Universiti Teknologi Malaysia, Johor Bahru, Johor, Malaysia
University of Melbourne, Australia
Seoul National University, Republic of Korea
Ssangyong Motor Company, Republic of Korea
Korea Institute of Industrial Technology (KITECH), Republic of Korea
Feng Technologies SAS, Laval, France
EDL SA, Montevideo, Uruguay
The group's diverse activity encompasses fundamental and applied research in Advanced Control and Diagnostics, Dynamic System Modelling, Image and Signal Processing, System Optimization, and Human-Machine Interaction, including applications such as automotive, aerospace, gas turbines, agri-food, and healthcare.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/law/research/condis:
Our socio-legal and interdisciplinary group is led by academics with a passion for researching conflict and disaster situations.
This research group facilitates interdisciplinary discussion and research within social sciences, life sciences, and the arts across the University of Lincoln and externally.
The group's mission is to provide research which enhances the mobility and restoration of people, communities, and international organisations in the wake of conflicts and disasters.
Dr Amal Ali
Senior Lecturer in Law
Dr Max Brookman-Byrne
Dr Chloe Gilgan
Lecturer in Law
Dr Ben Hudson
Lecturer in Law (University of Exeter)
Dr James Heydon
Associate Professor in Criminology (University of Nottingham)
Sheraz Ibrahim
PhD Researcher
Louis Kotze
Senior Professorial Fellow in Earth System Law
Tom Martin
Lecturer, Lincoln School of Film & Media
Dr Bonaventura Majolo
Reader in Psychology
Amber Smith
Dr Christy Shucksmith-Wesley
Assistant Professor (University of Nottingham)
Thomas Welch
The 'narrating aerial warfare project' - an interdisciplinary investigation into the official narrative around the UK's involvement in the response to ISIS, considering how language and law are used to cultivate public knowledge of the conflict (Brookman-Byrne).
'Civilian Casualties from Airstrikes: Counting, Accounting, and Accountability' - an international collaboration, funded by the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada, which investigates how civilian casualties are 'seen' by states and international law generally, how they are described or 'framed', and why accountability for civilian harm is predominantly unforthcoming (Brookman-Byrne with Dr Christiane Wilke (Carleton University, Canada)).
This group combines core areas of specialist expertise and research excellence to promote interdisciplinary dialogue and research output.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/natsci/geographyresearch/dire:
Many of the greatest challenges facing societies today occur at the nexus of environmental degradation and social marginalisation; deprived communities in both the Global South and the Global North often live in poor environmental conditions and deprivation is associated with vulnerability, including an increased likelihood of being severely impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic.
The University of Lincoln was one of the first signatories to the Civic University Agreement, demonstrating our commitment to reducing inequalities, removing barriers to access for underrepresented groups, and promoting resilience in our communities.
Our research group addresses the key theme of Communities, advocated by the University through diverse inter-and-transdisciplinary research into the upstream ‘causes of causes’ that produce inequalities in built and natural environments, and innovative methods of promoting development and resilience in vulnerable spaces .
Our research group addresses the most urgent and immediate threats to the resilience of human-environment systems and seeks to understand the complex interactions between societies and the landscapes they inhabit that precipitate vulnerability, including rural and urban dynamics.
Thus, our scope also contributes to the growing body of research undertaken by University of Lincoln academics around Sustainability , in particular environmental justice, and the role of governance, both within the UK and abroad.
The University of Lincoln, is set to spearhead groundbreaking research in rural and coastal health after securing a £10.9 million funding injection from the UK Research and Innovation's (UKRI) Expanding Excellence in England (E3) fund.
Our interdisciplinary team addresses the fundamental challenges associated with development, and the dynamics of those challenges in the Global South compared to the Global North.
Key challenges in the Global South include lack of basic human rights and resource depletion.
By comparison, the Global North is faced with overcoming the legacy of neoliberalism, including the social and environmental burden of western economies on less wealthy regions.
While the barriers and opportunities related to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals vary geographically, there are also common deep causes, including the colonial roots of modern-day challenges.
Unpacking these ‘causes of causes’ is a central objective of our research group, and an essential step towards eradicating inequalities between developing and developed nations, as well as within regions.
Relationships between social disadvantage and socio-economic outcomes are well documented in some many parts of the world but less is known about unfair and uneven development over space and time in most countries.
The Inequalities cluster encourages both critically engaged technical work and technically capable critical work.
Our work embraces quantitative and qualitative social research practice to provide clarity about the best routes for understanding and tackling inequalities through an interdisciplinary and multidimensional perspective.
Our current projects include exploring the factors that explain inequality and the impact on vulnerability, particularly in the context of the current Covid-19 pandemic.
DIRE members in the School of Geography and School of Health and Social Care are engaged in ongoing real-time research about how demographic and socio-economic inequalities increased the vulnerability of some groups in society to biological contagion and acute mental health conditions during the pandemic.
Other areas of research include how socio-economic inequalities in coastal communities in developed and developing countries are reflected in policy-making, particularly in relation to planning and management responses to biodiversity loss and sea level rise.
The resilience cluster engages critically with the idea and concept of societal ‘resilience’ and the cognate ideas of vulnerability and adaptation.
It focusses especially on the theme of disasters and climate change, their causes and responses, as well as the social, economic, political and behavioural factors that promote - or hinder - resilient communities and citizens.
These themes are addressed at a range of geographical scales including the subcontinent, the nation state, the region, and the municipality.
Research on resilience also links historical and contemporary research by providing long-term perspectives on problems that are often assumed to be of modern origin.
In 2020 Dr Moore published a study following her Doctoral research in Australia about the Murray-Darling Basin (MDB), examining the political and economic challenges associated with achieving sustainable water management in the context of climate change and increasing financial constraint.
The study considered the institutional arrangements that dictate how water is ‘recovered’ for environmental purposes at the basin scale.
The paper suggested that efforts to secure water for environmental purposes like the artificial watering of flood-plains would fall short of the minimum amounts required to ensure the survival of ecosystems in the MDB.
In 2023, Professor Jamie Pittock at ANU suggests that as Dr Moore and colleagues expected, these efforts have failed to achieve the goals of the MDB Plan, including securing water for the environment.
The analysis presented by Moore and colleagues (below) could help predict policy failures before they happen in regions with similar water entitlement arrangements (e.g., Chile).
Julian Clifton:
Pauli, N., Clifton, J., Elrick-Barr, C.
(2023).
Evaluating marine areas in Fiji.
Nature Sustainability DOI:10.1038.s41893-023-01136-2
Zimmerhackel, J.S., Clifton, J., Ackermann, F., Burton, M., Elrick-Barr, C.E., Hill, G., Harvey, E.S.
A framework for the integrated assessment of social and economic values associated with man-made marine structures.
Marine Policy 152: 105612 DOI: 10.1016/j.marpol.2023.105612
Elrick-Barr, C.E., Clifton, J., Cuttler, M., Perry, C., Rogers, A.B.
Understanding coastal social values through citizen science: the example of Coastsnap in Western Australia.
Ocean and Coastal Management 238: 106563 DOI: 10.1016/j.ocecoaman.2023.106563
Elrick-Barr, C.E., Zimmerhackel, J.S., Hill, G., Clifton, J., Ackermann, F., Burton, M., Harvey, E.S.
(2022).
Man-made structures in the marine environment: a review of stakeholders’ social and economic values and perceptions.
Environmental Science & Policy 129: 12-18 DOI: 10.1016/j.envsci.2021.12.006
King, C., Iba, W., Clifton, J.
(2021).
Reimagining resilience: COVID-19 and marine tourism in Indonesia.
Current Issues in Tourism 24(19): 2784-2800 DOI: 10.1080/13683500.2021.1873920
Clifton, J., Osman, E.O., Suggett, D.J., Smith, D.J.
Resolving conservation and development tensions in a small island developing state: a governance analysis of Curieuse Marine National Park, Seychelles.
Marine Policy 127:103617 DOI: 10.​1016/​j.​marpol.​2019.​103617
González-Bernat, M.J., Clifton, J.
A governance analysis of two marine protected areas in the Pacific Region of Guatemala: the Multiple Use Area of Monterrico and the Private Reserve La Chorrera-Manchón Guamuchal.
Marine Policy 127: 103625 DOI: 10.1016/j.marpol.2019.103625
A governance analysis of Guatemala’s first recognized marine protected area: The Wildlife Refuge of Punta de Manabique (RVSPM).
Marine Policy 127: 103626 DOI: 10.1016/j.marpol.2019.103626
Pyke, M., Close, P., Dobbs, R., Toussaint, S., Smith, B., Cox, Z., Cox, D., George, K., McCarthy, P., Angus, B., Riley, E., Clifton, J.
‘Clean him up…make him look like he did before’: Australian Aboriginal management of wetlands with implications for conservation, restoration and multiple evidence base negotiations.
Wetlands 41:28 DOI: 10.1007/s13157-021-01410-z
Yunitawati, D., Clifton, J.
Governance in the early stages of marine protected area development: a case study of Nusa Penida District Marine Conservation Area, Indonesia.
Marine Policy 127: 103653 DOI: 10.1016/j.marpol.2019.103653
Verde Selva, G., Pauli, N., Clifton, J., Kim, M.K., (2021).
A framework for analysing ecological fiscal transfers: case studies from the Brazilian Atlantic forest.
Journal of Latin American Studies DOI:10.1017/S0022216X21000018
Verde Selva, G., Pauli, N., Kim, M.K., Clifton, J.
(2020).
Opportunity for change or reinforcing inequality?
Power, governance and equity implications of government payments for conservation in Brazil.
Environmental Science & Policy 105, 102-112  DOI:10.1016/j.envsci.2020.01.001
Jay Emery:
Emery, J., Powell, R., & Crookes, L.
Class, affect, margins.
The Sociological Review , 71(2), 283-295.
Bennett, K., & Emery, J.
Emotional.
In Concise Encyclopedia of Human Geography (pp.
125-130).
Edward Elgar Publishing.
Emery, Jay (2022) Heterogeneities of England’s deindustrializing towns: comparative urbanisms in territories of relegation.
In: Desindustrialización: memoria, patrimonio y representaciones.
Ediciones Trea.
Emery, J.
Urban trauma in the ruins of industrial culture: Miners’ Welfares of the Nottinghamshire coalfield, UK.
Social & Cultural Geography , 23(5), 639-659.
Emery, J., Pattison, J., Simpson, K., Thomlinson, N., & Jackson, L.
Practices and negotiations of belonging in the deindustrialising coalfields: navigating school, education and memory through a time of transformation.
In Education, Work and Social Change in Britain’s Former Coalfield Communities: The Ghost of Coal (pp.
223-244).
Cham: Springer International Publishing.
After coal: Affective-temporal processes of belonging and alienation in the deindustrializing Nottinghamshire coalfield, UK.
Frontiers in Sociology , 5, 38.
(2019).
Geographies of deindustrialization and the working‐class: Industrial ruination, legacies, and affect.
Geography Compass , 13(2), e12417.
'That once romantic now utterly disheartening (former) colliery town': The affective politics of heritage, memory, place and regeneration in Mansfield, UK.
Journal of Urban Cultural Studies , 6(2-3), 219-240.
(2018).
Belonging, memory and history in the north Nottinghamshire coalfield.
Journal of Historical Geography, 59, 77-89.
Dr Harriet Moore:
Moore, H.E., Hill, B., Siriwardena, N., Law, G., Thomas, C., Gussy, M., Spaight, R.
and Tanser, F., 2022.
An exploration of factors characterising unusual spatial clusters of COVID-19 cases in the East Midlands region, UK: a geospatial analysis of ambulance 999 data.
Landscape and Urban Planning , 219 , p.104299.
Moore, H.E., Siriwardena, A.N., Gussy, M., Tanser, F., Hill, B.
and Spaight, R., 2021.
Mental health emergencies and COVID-19: the impact of ‘lockdown’in the East Midlands of the UK.
BJPsych Open , 7 (4).
Moore, H.E., Hill, B., Siriwardena, A.N., Tanser, F.
Rethinking the health implications of society-environment relationships in built areas: an assessment of the Access to Healthy and Hazards Index in the context of COVID-19.
Landscape and Urban Planning , p.104265.
Moore , H.E.
and Rutherfurd, I.D., 2017.
Lack of maintenance is a major challenge for stream restoration projects.
River Research and Applications , 33 (9), pp.1387-1399.
Moore , H.E., Rutherfurd, I.D., Peel, M.C.
and Horne, A., 2020.
‘Sub-Prime’Water, Low-Security Entitlements and Policy Challenges in Over-Allocated River Basins: the Case of the Murray–Darling Basin.
Environmental Management , pp.1-16.
and Boldero, J., 2017.
Designing interventions that last: a classification of environmental behaviors in relation to the activities, costs, and effort involved for adoption and maintenance.
Frontiers in psychology , 8 , p.1874.
Dr Andrew Kythreotis :
Kythreotis, AP & Mercer, TG (2020) Collaborative education as a new ‘urban’ civil politics of climate change.
In Castán Broto, V, Robin, E & While, A (2020) Climate urbanism: towards a critical research agenda.
Palgrave Macmillan, London.
Mercer, TG & Kythreotis, AP (2020) Towards Citizen Governance for Climate Change Education and Justice: a Science-Policy Perspective.
In Hanna, E, Hemstock, S & Myers, S (2020) Moana – Water of Life: Navigating Climate Change for Planetary Health.
Emerald, Bingley, UK.
Kythreotis, AP , Mercer, TG, Jonas, AEG & Marsden, TK (2020) Rethinking urban adaptation as a scalar geopolitics of climate governance: climate policy in the devolved territories of the United Kingdom.
Territory, Politics and Governance.
https://doi.org/10.1080/21622671.2020.1837220
Howarth, C, Morse-Jones, S, Kythreotis, AP , Brooks, K & Lane, M (2020) Informing UK governance and resilience to climate risks: improving the local evidence base.
Climatic Change.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10584-020-02821-3
Kythreotis, AP , Jonas, AEG & Howarth, C (2020) Locating climate adaptation in urban and regional studies.
Regional Studies, 54(4): 576-588.
Kythreotis, AP , Mantyka-Pringle, CS, Mercer, TG, Whitmarsh, L, Paavola, J, Corner, A, Chambers, CD, Miller, BA & Castree, N (2019) Citizen Social Science for more integrative and effective climate action: a science-policy perspective.
Frontiers in Environmental Science, https://doi.org/10.3389/fenvs.2019.00010
Kythreotis, AP (2018).
Reimagining the urban as dystopic resilient spaces: scalar materialities in climate knowledge, planning and politics.
In: Ward, K, Jonas, AEG, Miller, B and Wilson, D (eds.) The Routledge Handbook on Spaces of Urban Politics.
Routledge, London.
Howarth, C, Morse-Jones, S, Brook, K & Kythreotis, AP (2018) Co-producing UK climate change adaptation policy: an analysis of the 2012 and 2017 UK Climate Change Risk Assessments.
Environmental Science & Policy, 89: 412-420.
Kythreotis, AP & Bristow, GI (2017) The ‘resilience trap’: exploring the practical utility of resilience for climate change adaptation in UK city-regions.
Regional Studies, 51 (10): 1530-1541.
Dr Matthew Hannaford :
Hannaford, M.J ., Beck, K.K.
Rainfall variability in southeast and west-central Africa during the Little Ice Age: do documentary and proxy records agree?.
Climatic Change 168, 11 (2021).
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10584-021-03217-7
Hannaford, M., Climate Change and Society in Southern African History.
In Oxford Research Encyclopedia of African History .
Van Bavel, B., Curtis, D.R., Dijkman, J., Hannaford, M., de Keyzer, M., Van Onacker, E.
and Soens, T., 2020.
Disasters and History: The Vulnerability and Resilience of Past Societies .
Cambridge University Press.
Van Bavel, B.J., Curtis, D.R., Hannaford, M.J., Moatsos, M., Roosen, J.
and Soens, T., 2019.
Climate and society in long‐term perspective: Opportunities and pitfalls in the use of historical datasets.
Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Climate Change , 10 (6), p.e611.
Hannaford, M.J., 2018.
Long-term drivers of vulnerability and resilience to drought in the Zambezi-Save area of Southern Africa, 1505–1830.
Global and planetary change , 166 , pp.94-106.
Adamson, G.C., Hannaford, M.J.
and Rohland, E.J., 2018.
Re-thinking the present: The role of a historical focus in climate change adaptation research.
Global Environmental Change , 48 , pp.195-205.
Hannaford, M.J.
and Nash, D.J., 2016.
Climate, history, society over the last millennium in southeast Africa.
Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Climate Change , 7 (3), pp.370-392.
Assistant Professor at Lingnan University, Hong Kong.
Dr Yeran Sun
Dr Jay Emery
Senior Policy Fellow - Place-based Climate Action Network (PCAN)at Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and the Environment
College of Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities , including the School of Health and Social Care
The Lincoln Institute for Rural Health
Lincoln Centre for Water and Planetary Health
Child Friendly Research Network
Community and Health Research Unit
HPACC
Societal Resilience
Utrecht University
East Midlands Ambulance NHS Service
Lincoln Climate Commission
Within the DIRE Research Group we deliver an annual seminar series that aims to promote knowledge sharing between academics across disciplines with shared interests in some of the biggest challenges facing societies and the environments they inhabit.
The seminars include presentations from DIRE members as well as guest speakers from the UK and abroad.
Find out about our speakers and seminars below, or get in touch with Dr Harriet Moore for more information.
DIRE academics in the School of Geography are delighted to collaborate with postgraduate students to investigate some of the biggest challenges facing societies today.
We are extremely proud of the ambitious projects our students have developed and actively work towards co-producing high-quality research outputs with them.
Learn more about our Postgraduate Research Case Studies .

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/socialsciences/research/migres:
The Migration, Citizenship and Communities Research Group (MigRes) is an interdisciplinary community of researchers from across the University working on a variety of aspects of international migration and citizenship.
We collaborate in order to create new insight into the many dynamics and challenges of migration, to develop research strengths in these areas, and to share knowledge for the benefit of partner organisations and our communities.
As a group, we have areas of focus in:
We study migration in Lincolnshire, across the UK, and around the world.
Our geographic focus ranges from Skegness to Hong Kong, and our team features research expertise on the European Union, North America and the Caribbean, the Middle East, and East Asia.
Group members are currently leading major research projects supported by a variety of funders, including the British Academy and Leverhulme Trust.
MigRes is interested in collaborating with a range of partners, including local councils and community organisations, national and international policymakers, as well as external researchers and research organisations.
Our members bring extensive experience of collaboration to our work.
Members are keen to host new doctoral researchers and to support applications for doctoral funding through SENSS (the South and East Network for Social Sciences), our ESRC-funded doctoral training partnership.
If you are interested in working with MigRes, please contact Dr Mike Slaven at mslaven@lincoln.ac.uk .
Discover more about the projects undertaken by members of MigRes.
View the current list of members of MigRes.
View a list of recent publications written by members of MigRes.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/socialsciences/research/violenceinsocietyresearchgroup:
The Violence in Society Research Group is comprised of academics and postgraduate students from across the University who are researching violence in its various forms.
The causes of violence are diverse, requiring interdisciplinary collaboration to develop enhanced understanding.
The group adopts an interdisciplinary approach to bring together different perspectives on violence and to work towards developing more effective responses to support victims and address perpetration.
While some recorded measures of violent crimes indicate a recent decline in the level of violence in some countries, such as the UK and USA, the United Nations states that the number of recorded homicides is increasing in some other parts of the world, while gender-based attacks are reportedly increasing globally.
UNICEF found recently that considerable numbers of children and adolescents from across the globe are victims of violence or live with a mother who is a victim of intimate partner violence.
UNICEF states that experiencing violence undermines children’s sense of self-worth and hinders their development, while a substantial body of evidence links experiences of violence in childhood with a range of poor health outcomes in adulthood.
The negative consequences of violence for the mental and physical wellbeing of those who are affected, directly and indirectly, are considerable and present a variety of challenges for health and justice services globally.
Through a series of regular activities, the group provides a supportive and collaborative environment for researchers.
The University possesses a strong track record of conducting research on different forms of violence, including violence between and affecting young people, gender-based violence, suicide, and political violence.
The Violence in Society Research Group seeks to capitalise on the productive research relationships that exist across Schools at the University, providing a supportive, intellectually stimulating forum that allows researchers and postgraduate students to connect and collaborate.
Discover more about the projects undertaken by members of the Violence in Society Research Group.
View the current list of members of the Violence in Society Research Group.
View a list of recent publications written by members of the Violence in Society Research Group.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/collegeofhealthandscience/research:
Research is central to the mission of the College of Health and Science at the University of Lincoln.
Our dedicated academic staff undertake world-leading and internationally excellent research, providing students with the opportunity to learn from some of the finest thinkers in their field.
Across the College, our researchers strive to advance knowledge in areas such as healthcare, biomedical sciences, psychology, sports science, and more.
They are working on relevant research projects that are tackling important societal issues, collaborating with experts, and generating impactful discoveries that can make a tangible difference to local, national, and international communities.
Our research institutes and centres are bringing together a range of expertise and knowledge from across the University's College of Health and Science and beyond, undertaking groundbreaking and timely studies that are having a positive impact across society.
With a clear focus on improving productivity, efficiency, and sustainability through innovation across the food chain.
Conducting world-class interdisciplinary research to address the health issues facing rural and coastal communities.
Specialising in technologies for perception, learning, decision-making, control and interaction in autonomous systems.
Focusing on solving the most pressing environmental and societal issues emerging from water-related risks.
The University of Lincoln has been awarded the prestigious Queen’s Anniversary Prize for its work supporting the success and sustainability of the UK’s food and farming industries through innovations in research, education, and technology.
Alongside our research institutes and centres, we have a number of research groups working within the College of Health and Science covering everything from machine learning, sustainable energy, and animal behaviour, to drug discovery, ecology, and mental health.
You can explore our research groups by subject area on the University's Research Institutes, Centres, and Groups page .
The group features a unique team of internationally renowned researchers working at the forefront of, and interface between life, environmental, health, computing, and social sciences.
We offer a range of purpose-built facilities and high-quality resources and equipment for our researchers.
This includes computer and engineering laboratories, a human performance centre, psychology labs, and clinical skills suites that are used to simulate real home and hospital environments.
Our Riseholme Campus offers specialist facilities for research in agri-food technology, while our Holbeach Campus is home to the National Centre for Food Manufacturing and features industry-standard facilities and equipment.
Our postgraduate research students can take advantage of a range of dedicated research and study spaces, suitable for both individual study and group work with fellow students.
Postgraduate students are an integral part of our research community, working alongside expert academics and researchers and contributing to our growing reputation for internationally excellent research.
We offer a range of studentships throughout the year, including funded and part-funded opportunities, where students can get involved in a number of exciting research projects and studies.
Meet PhD student Soseala Tinilau, whose doctoral research is exploring how the island of Tuvalu can strengthen its resilience to climate change through greater environmental education in schools and better policy development across local government and key organisations.
cohsresearch@lincoln.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/collegeofartssocialsciencesandhumanities/research:
Delivering research with impact is a key objective and an intrinsic part of the University of Lincoln's College of Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities.
Working across disciplines, our research covers a broad range of topics and utilises a wide variety of methodologies and approaches that foster regional, national, and international collaborations and partnerships.
The medieval city of Lincoln, with its 11 th Century Cathedral and castle, provides a unique environment for heritage and conservation studies, from projects on stained glass and the Gothic revival, to print-based research utilising sources held in the Cathedral’s Wren and Medieval Libraries.
O n campus, our theatre, galleries, design labs, and studio spaces provide vibrant hubs for our creative community of academics and students.
Answering questions around social justice and the law are also central to our mission, as is delivering research that benefits business and influences government, policymakers, and key stakeholders across society.
A new research project is questioning popular myths about young dads, who instead of being uncaring and irresponsible are demonstrating a desire to be positively involved in their children’s lives, while also advocating for more father-inclusive practices at a national level.
Our research centres are bringing together a range of expertise and knowledge from across the University's College of Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities, and beyond, undertaking groundbreaking and timely studies that are having a positive impact across society.
Alongside our research institutes and centres, we have a number of research groups working within the College of Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities covering everything from medieval history, critical heritage, and global and transregional studies, to contemporary music and theatre, responsible management, and the visitor economy.
You can explore our research groups by subject area on the University's Institutes, Centres, and Groups page.
The group is comprised of academics and postgraduate students from across the University and maintains a comprehensive approach to the study of violence to ensure recognition of its interpersonal, symbolic, and structural nature.
This includes dedicated performance spaces, photography studios, multimedia editing suites, design workshops, printmaking facilities, a Moot Court, and specialist archives based at the International Bomber Command Centre.
All our students also have access to the 260,000 journals, 750,000 print and electronic books, and the range of databases and specialist collections that are available at our Great Central Warehouse Library.
The Lincoln Policy Hub supports researchers from all disciplines in developing their research for the Government, policymakers, and other stakeholders.
The Hub features blogs, policy briefs, and policy guidance, connecting politicians, decision makers, and practitioners with our research to help to deliver evidence-based policies that meet the challenges facing our society today.
Postgraduate research students form an integral part of our academic community, and we aim to provide a vibrant research culture and environment to help them achieve their goals.
As well as offering first-class research facilities across the College, our students can take advantage of a range of dedicated research and study spaces, suitable for both individual study and group work with fellow researchers.
Students can also take part in a variety of postgraduate training programmes to help equip them with critical research skills, while our dedicated Postgraduate Research Activity Support Fund, which is awarded competitively, is available for undertaking value-enhanced activities, such as speaking at conferences, and visiting external libraries and archives.
Working alongside expert academics and researchers, our postgraduate students are contributing to our growing reputation for internationally excellent research.
We help them by offering a range of studentships throughout the year, including funded and part-funded opportunities, where students can get involved in a number of exciting research projects and studies.
Professor Anna Tarrant leads the Centre for Innovation in Fatherhood and Family Research and her work focuses on giving young fathers a voice and a platform to present their views to senior-level professionals and practitioners.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/postgraduatestudy/postgraduateresearch/support:
At the University of Lincoln, we aim to provide you with a friendly and supportive network of staff, students, and specialist services to help you when you need it the most.
Our dedicated Postgraduate Team is on hand to support you throughout your postgraduate journey – from your very first enquiry to study at the University of Lincoln to the moment you celebrate your graduation.
Resources Spotlight
The University of Lincoln's Doctoral School provides a focal point for our vibrant community of postgraduate researchers, offering support and guidance, and a range of opportunities for academic, professional, and personal development.
We understand the importance of providing you with a supportive, inclusive, and collaborative research environment for undertaking studies that can make a real difference to communities around the world.
The health and wellbeing of our students is incredibly important to us.
As a postgraduate student at Lincoln, you'll have access to a dedicated team of student wellbeing advisors, mental health advisors, and counsellors who can provide you with advice and guidance around disability, mental health, medical conditions, and learning differences.
As soon as you've enrolled, you can register with our on campus Health Centre, which offers appointments with both doctors and nurses.
Our Multi-faith Chaplaincy Service is also here for you, no matter what your faith or background.
So if you want to talk through any issues you have with work, study, or relationships, you can speak to our chaplains and faith advisors.
Health and Wellbeing at Lincoln
Loans and Studentships
Find out more about the options available to support your postgraduate research, from Master's and Doctoral Loans, to research studentship opportunities.
You can also find out more about how to pay your fees and access support from our helpful advisors.
The current cost of living is affecting everyone.
The PhD research journey has been the most significant period of my life.
When asked what my favourite thing about being a student at Lincoln was, I always say the people.
I am thankful for and appreciate the guidance from my supervisors and help from staff.
If you are thinking of applying, then the University of Lincoln won't let you down!

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/postgraduatestudy/postgraduateresearch/researcherdevelopment:
At the University of Lincoln, our postgraduate researchers are able to gain the skills, knowledge, and attributes that can help them meet their career goals and personal aspirations, whether that is in academia or beyond.
We regularly provide opportunities for you to work alongside our expert academics to gain insider knowledge in your chosen field.
You can also get involved in the innovative and groundbreaking research that is taking place at Lincoln by working on individual projects or collaborating with our researchers across a dynamic range of institutes, centres, and groups .
Our Doctoral School runs a dedicated programme to support your academic, professional, and personal development through a range of training workshops and activities, at all stages of your research.
The Researcher Development Programme sessions are delivered by experts, and the programme is aligned with the Vitae Researcher Development Framework , which is a nationally recognised benchmark of the skills and abilities that are needed to be an effective researcher.
Development themes include:
Our workshops give you the chance to develop your research skills in areas such as data analysis, time management, interviewing, qualitative research methods, and preparing for your viva.
Communicating your research is a vital part of your development and these sessions can strengthen your skills in areas including public speaking, presentations, poster design, and social media.
Workshops cover all aspects of your research, from the conception of your writing to the findings and conclusions, and include using library resources, working in archives, literature reviews, writing results, and getting published.
Our Library is open seven days a week at peak times and provides access to hundreds of databases and specialist resources.
You will also find guides to academic referencing and writing and practical support via webinars, workshops, and one-to-one sessions to help you with your learning and development.
To help you maximise the value of your qualification, you will have access to our dedicated Careers and Employability Team throughout your studies.
With in-depth knowledge and expertise of the labour market, our team of qualified advisors can offer one-to-one support and careers guidance to help you explore your career options, develop your CV, and gain the skills needed for your dream job.
Our Researcher Development Programme also offers a number of workshops to help you navigate your career journey after completing your research degree, while our Schools often provide further training and research opportunities so you can develop those crucial academic and professional skills to help you to stand out from the crowd.
The Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers is helping to deliver real and lasting improvements in our working environment, employment conditions, and professional development.
It includes an action plan to support further training and career opportunities, such as developing entrepreneurial skills for research commercialisation and strategies for wellbeing and mental health.
Our annual postgraduate conference gives you chance to network and discuss your work with fellow researchers across all disciplines, and features a programme of speakers, postgraduate presentations, a poster showcase, and a plenary session.
The University of Lincoln is a member of the East Midlands Doctoral Network , which consists of nine universities in the region sharing best practice, resources, and insights into the different aspects of postgraduate research, as well as providing a range of opportunities for collaboration and networking.
The Network holds events and activities throughout the year, including the postgraduate researcher conference, giving research students from across the region a chance to meet each other, share ideas, and celebrate the quality of their research.
Our annual Images of Research competition showcases some of the high-quality, impactful studies that are taking place at Lincoln, giving postgraduate students and academics the opportunity to share their current research experiences via a unique image and a 150-word abstract.
Giambattista is a Researcher in Education at the University of Catania in Italy, where he teaches courses in General Education and Intercultural Education.
He has conducted national and international studies in the fields of teaching and educational leadership and also serves on the editorial boards of a number of education journals.
The rigorous curriculum and the supportive academic environment at Lincoln fostered a deep understanding of both qualitative and quantitative research methodologies, which was crucial in preparing me for my current role, where I continually apply these skills to conduct impactful educational research.
The conferences and seminars also expanded my professional network, connecting me with fellow researchers and practitioners whose insights and collaborations continue to influence my work.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/postgraduatestudy/postgraduateresearch/pgrhowtoapply:
The University of Lincoln offers a range of research programmes, including MA/MSc by Research, MPhil, and PhD , and you can apply for these via the specific course pages on our website.
Before you submit your application, you will first need to identify a supervisory team or staﬀ member that has expertise in the area you want to research.
You are then encouraged to contact them directly to discuss your proposed project and suitability.
You may need to produce a research proposal (depending on the subject area), which provides an overview of the topic you intend to research.
We also strongly advise you to check entry requirements for your programme before submitting your application.
These can be found on the individual course pages.
You will need to do some research before applying for your chosen programme to identify potential supervisors at Lincoln whose research interests align with your own.
You can discover more about the University of Lincoln's key research strengths and latest studies on our main research pages .
You can also explore the research being carried out by academic experts across our institutes, centres, and groups .
You may want to search our website for specific subject areas and topics or browse our research repository , where you will find details of academics and research studies relating to your own field.
Our College and School sites also offer more information about research expertise and recent projects.
Once you have identified a potential supervisor, you should contact them via email to discuss your application.
Details can be found in our staff directory .
If you have an agreement in principle that a member of staff will supervise your research, you can submit your application with your research proposal.
Some PGR programmes require a research proposal as part of the application.
This is a project outline identifying what you want to study, why you want to investigate this area, and how you intend to conduct the research.
You are not expected to be the expert, but you will need to demonstrate a sound knowledge of the subject and where your research will make a valuable contribution to the topic.
Remember that your proposal is the starting point of your research.
It is normal for your ideas to evolve and develop, and for plans to change as you engage more deeply with the literature and begin working with your supervision team.
Here are some general points for writing your research proposal.
Some subjects have specific requirements, so please check the individual course pages or speak to your potential supervisor or supervisory team.
Length of Proposal
For a PhD your proposal should be 3,000 to 5,000 words (excluding references).
A Master’s by Research requires a proposal of between 1,000 and 2,000 words.
Structuring Your Research Proposal
There isn’t a prescribed format for the structure of a research proposal, but the following section headings are generally considered to be important:
Working Title
A clear and succinct description of your research should be encapsulated in the title.
Although this may not be the title of your final thesis, your proposal title should give a clear indication of the area you are interested in exploring.
Introduction
The introduction should set the context, explaining what you will research, why it is of value, and how you propose to conduct your research.
The introduction is your opportunity to demonstrate that your proposed research can make a significant contribution to existing bodies of literature, detailing how your research will fill a gap or develop/complete findings from previous research.
Overall, you will be expected to show that you have a good knowledge of the wider context in which your research belongs and that you have awareness of methodologies, theories, and conflicting evidence in your chosen field.
Overview of Your Research
You should provide a short overview of your research and where it fits in existing academic discourses, debates, or literature.
This should also cover your research objectives, why the research is needed, and what original contribution it can make.
Make sure your overview is intelligible to someone who is not a specialist in this field
Literature Review
You won’t have had chance to review all the relevant literature at this stage, but you should be able to incorporate the major debates and issues, demonstrating that you understand your chosen field.
Show how your research is original and how it will address the gaps in current knowledge.
The conclusion of the review should include a statement of your research problem or question.
Methodology
Your methodology section should detail how you will conduct your research and consider the following:
Timescales
You should provide a clear plan of how you will carry out the research from start to finish, breaking it down into the main components of the research project and identifying what you expect to do in each year of your studies.
Top Tips for a Good Research Proposal
The University accepts a range of qualiﬁcations for its programmes, but you should check that you meet the entry requirements for your chosen course as these vary.
Please visit the course pages on our website for more information.
For international students wanting to apply for a postgraduate research degree, it is important that you are aware of the specific requirements that you may need.
For example, there may be English Language requirements for our courses and other specific qualifications, such as the ATAS (Academic Technology Approval Scheme) certificate in order to enrol on certain science programmes.
You can find out more information on the individual course pages.
If you would like to discuss your suitability for any of our programmes, then please contact the academic listed on the relevant course page or speak to a member of our dedicated Postgraduate Team.
We understand that there is lots of information you need when thinking about applying for a postgraduate research degree.
This includes start dates, contact details, research areas, entry requirements, assessments, and details of fees and any additional costs you may incur during your studies.
Our research degree course pages can provide you with the additional information you will need.
Once ready, you can make an application to the University of Lincoln via our website.
You can apply for a research degree at any time, although some subjects encourage you to enrol for specific start dates (for example, January, May, or October).
Please see the individual course pages for more details.
Alongside your research proposal (if required for your subject area), you will need to provide two references, copies of completed qualiﬁcation certiﬁcates and transcripts, and evidence that you meet our English language entry requirements where appropriate.
Our dedicated Postgraduate Team is on hand to offer advice and support throughout the application process.
We know that undertaking a research degree is a major financial commitment, but there are many ways that you can fund your studies.
Explore our research repository, where you can find journal articles, book chapters, papers, and theses completed by researchers at Lincoln.
Ian has spent more than 20 years in education, working in various roles including as a teacher, head of school, and director in the ministry of education in Malta.
He is currently Director General at the Secretariat for Catholic Education in Malta, managing an organisation with over 120 employees and coordinating 55 schools that service almost 17,000 students.
I had a really positive experience at Lincoln, which was almost flawless in terms of meeting my expectations.
It is a very welcoming place, where people of different cultures meet and strive to grow together.
Moreover, the respectful demeanour of academics, who treated fellow students as their equals, was both inspiring and reassuring.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/postgraduatestudy/postgraduateresearch/meetourstudents:
Our researchers are supported by expert academics, many of whom are working on groundbreaking studies that are addressing major global challenges.
Alongside their own studies and research, our postgraduate students may also have the opportunity to collaborate through a dynamic range of institutes, centres, and groups, which together form a rich collegiate environment.
These approaches offer an ideal platform for delivering high-quality research that is having a real-world impact on lives and communities in the UK and beyond.
Erica is following her passion for animal welfare by undertaking research that is examining training and care regimes for performance horses working in equestrain sports to find out why some bad practices still exist.
View the Profile
Daniel is currently pursuing doctoral research in international law and global governance, exploring a number of sustainability issues across the full lifecycle of plastics to analyse the law around global plastic pollution.
As part of her PhD project at the University of Lincoln, Sarah is looking at developing a walking robotic manipulator to help with the process of decommissioning large fusion nuclear reactors in the UK.
Soseala's PhD research is exploring how the island of Tuvalu can strengthen its resilience to climate change through greater environmental education in schools and better policy development across local government.
Francesca's doctoral research is focusing on the roles, relationships, and impact of three queens who were the second wives of kings in the late thirteenth and early fourteenth centuries.
In her research, PhD student Georgia is examining the relationships between health, physical activity, service professionals, and older adult stroke survivors in the context of community stroke rehabilitation.
PhD student Lindsey is exploring whether the persistent pursuit of economic growth, which has become a key indicator of a country's success and prosperity, should be the end goal for governments.
For her PhD thesis, Patricia has been exploring and evaluating a number of biographical novels, which are stories that feature an account of a real author's life rather than just using imaginary characters.
Based at Lincoln's National Centre for Food Manufacturing, PhD student Obafemi is investigating the development of new food products designed to ease swallowing difficulties in patients with severe dysphagia.
Through her research, Nicki is hoping to help young fathers can get the support they need to continue their education and avoid leaving school without the qualifications and experiences that can change lives.
Barnaby is a PhD student whose research in media and cultural studies at the University of Lincoln is focusing on censorship and the limits of acceptability in modern British film culture.
Find out more about postgraduate research at the University of Lincoln, including the programmes we offer, the support available to students, and how to apply for a research degree.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/mbiresms:
Course Menu
Brayford Pool
See More
1 year
2 years
Start Dates in October and January
Microbiology impacts numerous aspects of our lives, including ensuring our food is safe, treating and preventing disease, developing green technologies, and tracking the role of microbes in climate change.
This research programme can equip students with the skills needed to solve major global challenges such as antibiotic resistance, clean drinking water, and food security, by conducting research in areas such as medical, industrial, and environmental microbiology; molecular, cell, and system biology; recombinant DNA technology; protein biochemistry; structural biology; fermentation; and bioengineering.
Students benefit from training courses provided by the University aimed at developing key skills in research.
Under the guidance and advice of their academic supervisors, students can develop their ability to effectively communicate their research and thesis.
Beyond learning how to conduct research and the specialist skills that students are expected to develop within their subject discipline, the process of studying for a research degree can provide transferable skills in problem-solving, time management, independent and team work, and communication.
Conduct independent, original, and academically significant research
Benefit from training courses to develop key research skills
Supervision and support from an advisory panel of academic staff
Present at talks and seminars to showcase your work
Enrol in January or October each year
This research programme relies on independent study and research, supervised by an advisory panel of academic staff.
The nature of this research will be specific to the subject area, but is expected to investigate a novel question and provide a novel contribution to science.
Due to the nature of postgraduate research programmes, the majority of time is spent in independent study and research, but you might also attend seminars and other research activities.
Students will have meetings with their academic supervisor at least once a month, but the precise frequency of these will vary depending on in-dividual requirements, subject area, staff availability, and stage of programme.
Research within the Department of Life Sciences is conducted within five research groups.
The key to success on a postgraduate research programme is to find a research topic that you are passionate about and identify a supervisory team that has expertise in this area.
The first thing that all prospective students should do is directly contact a member of staff from one of these areas that you feel is best aligned with your chosen research area to discuss the application process further.
Students will have at least one formal meeting with their supervisors each month where progress will be discussed.
After three months students are expected to provide an outline of their research proposal, which will be evaluated.
The MSc by Research is awarded based on the quality of the students thesis and their ability to present and successfully defend their research to a panel of examiners.
They are expected to demonstrate how their research findings have contributed to knowledge, or developed existing theory or understanding.
Postgraduate Research Application Support
Find out more about the application process for research degrees and what you'll need to complete on our How to Apply page, which also features contact details for dedicated support with your application.
To find out more about postgraduate research study in life sciences, you can contact our postgraduate research leads Dr Jenny Dunn and Dr Tom Pike.
Both have broad research interests within animal behaviour and ecology.
Jenny's research mainly focuses on understanding the drivers and impacts of parasite infection, mostly in wild birds.
Tom is primarily interested in the evolution and maintenance of visual and olfactory signals, from the perspective of both the signallers and the receivers.
Make an Enquiry
To support your experience within the postgraduate research community, new students are encouraged to enrol in October or January.
In addition to meeting peers across the University who are starting their research programme at the same time, there is access to a central training programme designed around the first three months of study, and targeted support aligned to each stage of the postgraduate research journey.
However, applications are welcome at any point throughout the year, and enrolment can also take place at any relevant point.
Alternative enrolment dates should be agreed with your supervisors on an individual basis.
First or upper second class honours degree in a relevant subject.
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages for information on equivalent qualifications.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/
Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element.
For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-session English and Academic Study Skills courses.
These specialist courses are designed to help students meet the English language requirements for their intended programme of study.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
Non-exempt nationals  who are subject to time-limited immigration permission (e.g.
Student visa, dependent visa, refugee status) will be required to obtain an ATAS (Academic Technology Approval Scheme) certificate to enrol on this programme.
For guidance on ATAS please visit https://www.gov.uk/guidance/academic-technology-approval-scheme
You can view the breakdown of fees for this programme below.
Research students may be required to pay additional fees in addition to cover the cost of specialist resources, equipment and access to any specialist collections that may be required to support their research project.
These will be informed by your research proposal and will be calculated on an individual basis.
Programme  Fees
A research programme provides the opportunity to become a true expert in your chosen field, while developing a range of valuable transferable skills than can support your career progression.
A research-based degree is also the most direct pathway to an academic career.
Research degrees are a great chance to expand your network and meet diverse people with similar interests, knowledge, and passion.
The University’s Doctoral School provides a focal point for Lincoln’s community of researchers, where ideas and experiences can be developed and shared across disciplines.
It also oﬀers support and training to help equip you for both academic and non-academic careers.
Doctoral School
Working with regional, national, and international partners, our academics are engaged in groundbreaking studies that are challenging the status quo.
We also understand the importance of providing the best possible environment for pursuing research that can support our communities and make a tangible difference to the world around us.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/gepresms:
Understanding the physical processes governing the earth surface and climate and how they are changing over time can help us plan for the future and react to global challenges facing the world, such as climate change and biodiversity loss.
Through independent research, supervisory meetings, and departmental seminars, conferences, and research workshops, this research programme provides the opportunity to conduct an in-depth research project in an area of physical geography, and aims to build key skills for positions in academia, research, spatial planning, and environmental consultancy and management.
Subject areas may reflect the Department's current research strengths and specialisms.
These include geoarchaeology and environmental history; quaternary environmental change; ecosystem and human health; floods, droughts and climate change; GIS and remote sensing; glaciology and climatology; coastal and marine environments; and large river systems and deltas.
Lincoln's physical geographers are working on projects exploring soil science and geochemistry; quaternary environmental change; ecosys-tem and human health; flooding and climate change; GIS and earth observation; glaciology and climatology; fluvial and coastal geomorphology; and deltaic and estuarine river mouth systems.
Supervision and support from academic staff
Due to the nature of postgraduate research programmes, the majority of time is spent on independent study and research.
In addition, students are expected to attend School, Department, and research group seminars and confercences, and engage in training opportunities in support of their studies provided by the Department, School, and the wider University.
Students will regularly meet with their academic supervisors, however, the frequency of this will vary depending on study mode, individual requirements, subject area, staff availability, and project progress.
Potential areas of work are aligned with the Department's current research strengths and specialisms and include (but are not limited to):
You can also find out more about current student research projects .
Catchment and coastal processes affect billions of people across the globe in the most diverse ways.
This group addresses the physical, social, environmental, and political causes and drivers of climate variations over a range of temporal and spatial scales in the Global North and Global South.
We are pleased to offer a bursary to study for an MSc by Research Geography, under the supervision of Dr Daniel Magnone.
This exciting opportunity will enable the successful applicant to study as a member of the Project Groundwater Greater Lincolnshire research team.
The project is a multi-million-pound investment by Defra into Greater Lincolnshire of which the University of Lincoln is the academic partner.
The objective is to produce the ﬁrst map of groundwater salinity across the whole of the Greater Lincolnshire region building on the work of Moulds et al.
It is anticipated that the successful applicant should seek to publish the work undertaken.
Project Groundwater Greater Lincolnshire is a multi-million-pound investment by Defra into Greater Lincolnshire of which the University of Lincoln is the academic partner.
Engaging with the wider project will enable the student to network in public and private environmental sector.
- Moulds, M., Gould, I., Wright, I., Webster, D.
and Magnone, D., 2023.
Use of electrical resistivity tomography to reveal the shallow freshwater–saline interface in The Fens coastal groundwater, eastern England (UK).
Hydrogeology Journal, 31(2), pp.335-349.
Skills/experience required
Offer
A £5,000 bursary will be awarded to the successful applicant.
Research costs will be provided by Project Groundwater Greater Lincolnshire research project.
Students will still be subject to fees and will need to meet the course entry requirements .
Students are expected to start in summer/autumn 2025.
How to apply
A single document of three sides of A4 should be submitted to dmagnone@lincoln.ac.uk.
You should include the following information:
1 - A single page CV
2 - A research statement from the information
i.
How you will deliver the objectives in one year.
ii.
How you meet the essential criteria outlined.
3 - An example piece of writing on a topic of your choosing in Physical Geography, Environmental Science or similar.
This may be a section of an essay or an abstract.
Closing date: 6 April 2025
The MSc by Research involves the writing of a Master's thesis under the supervision of a member of academic staff on a topic to be agreed with the course supervisor.
The MSc by Research is usually awarded based on the quality of the students' thesis alone.
An oral examination (viva voce) may be may needed in some circumstances.
Once you have identifed a research topic, you are invited to contact the supervisors that you feel are best suited to your research area to discuss the process further.
We have wide areas of expertise in the Department spanning environmental health, fluvial and coastal process, biogeography, and climate change alongside social, political, cultural, historical, and economic geographies.
Applications should include a CV and a research proposal (not exceeding 3000 words, including references) with an indicative structure as follows: Names of proposed academic supervisors, aims and purpose of the research, overview of the academic literature relevant to your field, proposed methodology, and expected outcome/impact of your research.
Upon positive evaluation of your proposal, you will be invited for an interview to discuss your personal/academics skills and your research project.
Alternative enrolment dates may be agreed with your supervisor and Programme Leader on an individual basis.
First or second class honours degree in Geography or related discipline.
For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements pages.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills
For more information about this course, please contact:
Dr Mark Schuerch mschuerch@lincoln.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/researchatlincoln/doctoraltrainingpartnership:
The University of Lincoln is proud to announce its involvement in the South and East Network for Social Sciences (SENSS) Doctoral Training Partnership, funded by the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) to train the next generation of social scientists.
Fully funded ESRC studentships are available to research students via this partnership, across eight SENSS partner universities.
The studentships cover tuition fees at the appropriate rate and an annual maintenance grant (also called stipend).
The competition for studentships starting in October 2025 is now open.
For further information, visit the SENSS website or email us at senss@lincoln.ac.uk .
There are a variety of flexible routes for research and training, depending on your background and the research you are planning to undertake.
SENSS positively encourages applicants from talented students whose highest qualification is an undergraduate degree, who may be funded to undertake a Master's programme.
Details about eligibility and guidance, including links to applicant webinars and applicant portal, can be found on the SENSS website .
The structure of the studentship offered will depend on your personal training needs.
However, the minimum duration of a SENSS-funded studentship will be 3.5 years – this covers a PhD and a mandatory placement of approximately three months.
The maximum duration of a studentship will be 4.5 years – this covers a Master's degree followed by a PhD, as well as the mandatory three-month placement.
The following Schools are currently involved in supporting applications.
Applications for interdisciplinary projects are welcomed, as long as the PhD project is led by researchers in these discipline areas.
Prospective applicants are asked to identify and liaise with potential supervisors by following the links to the School pages below.
The School of Psychology, Sport Science and Wellbeing has a strong and growing reputation for excellent fundamental and applied research with international impact and fosters a vibrant and outward-facing culture in its partnerships and collaborations.
The School of Social and Politcal Sciences has a reputation for research excellence and its academic staff are engaged in cutting-edge research that is not only pushing the boundaries of our subjects but is also having real life impact.
The School of Health and Social Care Sciences works with a range of communities, services, and researchers to design and deliver projects that are beneficial to service users and which influence policy, practice, and procedures in health and social care.
University of Lincoln students who are undertaking social science-led research or interdisciplinary research that crosses arts and humanities and social sciences can apply for funding to pursue research aligned to one of our interdisciplinary thematic pathways.
The pathways are set out below and under each are listed the Schools that are considered eligible for that pathway.
In order to apply for SENSS funding in one of the thematic pathways, you must first have applied for a place to study for a research degree in one of the participating subject areas at Lincoln.
Psychology
Psychology; Social and Political Science; and Health and Social Care
Social and Political Science

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/researchatlincoln/researchfeatures/sustainablefutures:
The agri-food sector is a key driver for the UK economy, but it is also responsible for a significant proportion of greenhouse gas emissions and biodiversity loss.
The UK has committed to achieving net zero by 2050 and this means there is a huge push to make the sector sustainable while also ensuring that everyone in the UK has access to food that is nutritious, delicious, affordable, and safe.
Enter Artificial Intelligence (AI), which can help the sector achieve the rapid transformation needed to meet this challenge.
The University of Lincoln is at the forefront of agri-tech research, and thanks to £10.9 million funding from UK Research and Innovation will be training the scientists who can help make this transformation happen.
In collaboration with the University of Aberdeen, Queen’s University Belfast, and the University of Strathclyde, Lincoln will be using the funding to establish SUSTAIN, (UKRI AI Centre for Doctoral Training in Sustainable Understandable agri-food Systems Transformed by Artificial INtelligence), a transformative Centre for Doctoral Training.
It will provide a cross-disciplinary, multi-institution doctoral training programme to support innovative research in the application of AI to sustainable agri-food, covering technical and social science aspects of AI, alongside training in plant, animal and/or biosciences, tailored to individual students’ needs and interests.
We are offering range of fully funded studentships in the application of Artificial Intelligence (AI) to sustainable agri-food, which will take place in the new Centre for Doctoral Training, SUSTAIN.
Bringing together the expertise and resources of four academic institutions, SUSTAIN will span the entire landscape of UK agriculture, critical AI research areas, and the national geography of England, Scotland, and Northern Ireland.
Alongside this, the students will have access to the Global Innovation Institute of Queen’s University Belfast, which is a nexus for co-innovation between researchers and industry in data security to realise the benefits of digital technologies within health and agri-food sectors; the Rowett Institute at the University of Aberdeen, including a clinical investigation unit, a metabolic research facility, a body composition suite and extensive state-of-the-art laboratories; and the Hyperspectral Imaging Lab at the University of Strathclyde, a suite of HSI sensor equipment for applications in the agri-food domain.
SUSTAIN will help to transform the agri-food sector in the UK through the deployment of safe, responsible, and understandable AI.
Its commitment to diversity, inclusivity, and environmental sustainability will ensure a comprehensive and impactful approach towards training the next generation of AI scientists dedicated to sustainable agriculture.
Professor Simon Parsons
SUSTAIN Lead
Professor Elizabeth Sklar, who is a Co-Deputy Director for SUSTAIN, added: “This new interdisciplinary, cross-cutting centre bridges significant gaps in sustainable AI: from farm to fork in the agri-food pipeline, from algorithm to deployment in the AI development pipeline, from researcher to end-user in the AI dissemination pipeline, and from England to Scotland and Northern Ireland in the education pipeline.”
SUSTAIN will also feature Co-Deputy Director, Professor Georgios Leontidis from the University of Aberdeen, and Co-Investigators Professor Ilias Kyriazakis, from Queen’s University Belfast, and Dr Christos Tachtatzis, from the University of Strathclyde.
SUSTAIN students will benefit from expert supervision and world-leading facilities, such as the University of Lincoln’s Riseholme Campus, which features a diverse range of resources including a working farm, robotics and plant labs, and the UK’s first agri-tech incubator, Barclays Eagle Lab.
Prof Simon Parsons research interests are in the area of Artificial Intelligence looking at data-backed decision making, explainable artificial intelligence, market-based systems, and mobile robotics.
Elizabeth Sklar is Professor of Agri-Robotics and Research Director at LIAT.
Her research investigates the implementation of AI-based methods in multi-robot teams, human-machine teaming, data-backed decision making, and behaviour mining.
Read the latest news and find out more about the innovative and impactful research that is taking place at the University of Lincoln.
Work has started on a new research and development facility at the University's Riseholme Park Campus, enabling new industry collaboration and research opportunities for the UK’s food and farming sector.
The University of Lincoln has been awarded the prestigious Queen’s Anniversary Prize for its work supporting the success and sustainability of the UK’s food and farming industries.
An Agri-tech collaboration led by the University of Lincoln has secured vital research funding to develop a truly global Agri-tech cluster in the Greater Lincolnshire and East Anglia region.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/servicesforbusiness/ourexpertise/consultancyservices:
A gateway for innovation.
Work with us to utilise our expertise, capabilities and resources to generate new insight, ideas, solve problems and, together, generate valuable solutions.
Our industry-leading academics and specialists cover a wide range of disciplines and can tailor their approach to address your business challenges and goals.
We work with industry in many ways, from simple advice and guidance through to strategic development projects, we seek to work with business to develop and grow innovative new solutions and possibilities.
Providing technical and creative solutions to industrial problems
Expert analysis and interpretation of data, research, trends, and legislation
Advising on process to deliver a project or improve productivity
Impartial advice, guidance, and acting as expert witness
Carrying out viability investigations on development projects
Advising on government / industry policies
Our experts cover a wide range of disciplines and offers public and private industries a chance to tap into a wealth of leading expertise, experience, and access to university facilities.
Intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance, professional leadership training.
Business research, business planning, marketing and communication strategy’s, digital marketing, creative branding, business training and professional development, tourism evaluations.
Historic interiors interpretations, conservation of historic interiors, object conservation, 3D scanning, digital heritage, climate change and historic buildings, easel paintings conservation, heritage and tourism, consultant historians, historical advisors for film and TV.
Agri technology and robotics.
Dedicated food processing training facility.
Farming and food research and innovation working closely with the regions industry.
Set design and production for theatre, festivals, and events.
Community arts, role play and re-enactments, music, theatrical and special events, Role play for incidents, accidents and health & safety.
Creative communications design and development.
Communications strategies, PR and social media, working with the media, creative writing, film, TV, photography, audio, radio, music, and podcasting.
Public, rural and community health, clinical trials unit, healthy ageing, forensic and crime research, autism research, sleep research.
Research and toolkits for young dads, and more…
Engineering, manufacturing, materials analysis & testing, chemical innovations, sports science, motion capture, environmental science, sustainable energy, industrial digitisation, and more…
Design for low carbon infrastructure projects, embodied carbon calculations, sustainable architecture and technologies, environmental buildings performance, methods of modern construction.
Digital twins, 360-degree immersive filming and training environments, virtual and augmented reality, app development and interactive communications.
Expertise, research and evidence-driven analysis of tourism-related data with the aim of supporting the Lincolnshire visitor economy, informing policy debates, assisting local stakeholders, and more…

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/servicesforbusiness/ourexpertise/specialistcentres:
The University of Lincoln’s group of consultancies represents a consortium of specialist centres where each centre provides a range of services and support geared to meet the needs and challenges of their respective sector or industry.
Each of our specialist centres are made up of consultants, analysts, researchers, advisors, problem solvers, creative's, technicians, academic experts and specialist facilities.
Our centres work with a wide range of industries and organisations.
We seek to provide advice, to be impartial, to solve practical and strategic business problems.
We also seek to experiment, test ideas and produce new and original solutions.
We champion new technologies and look to devise new methods to create an innovative solution for a new product, process or a new approach to solve a business or societal problem.
Lincoln Conservation is one of the UK’s leading centres for research and conservation of interior and exterior decorative schemes and have helped to reinstate many iconic buildings, historic interiors, royal palaces, maritime heritage, military vehicles, historic artefacts, easel paintings and historic paint analysis.
We help our clients create that centrepiece showcase event or, help create and stage an immersive training scenario.
Whether it’s a festival, live event, a product launch or a simulated training environment, we have the expertise, creativity and production facilities to turn ideas into a memorable moment.
Visit Stagelinc
We are a digital innovations agency creating immersive digital experiences for people to explore spaces and places in new and novel ways.
We seek to augment environments with digital content, information, audio, objects, avatars and animations.
We help to tell stories, play games, learn things, discover, communicate and reveal hidden histories.
We work with architects and developers to calculate and reduce the environmental impacts of new building, retrofit and infrastructure projects.
We work with varied industries and professionals on materials science, research, and innovation.
At our advanced facility, we analyse, test, and evaluate materials, driving business innovation.
A dedicated industry training facility that helps employees advance their careers via a range  of flexible courses.
Our partnership with industry is at the heart of our research agenda.
One of the UK’s leading centres for agri-food technology, working with organisations seeking to innovate and enhance the future of food and agriculture through research, education, and technology.
We evaluate the impact and outcomes of new services, initiatives, and projects.
We analysis the enablers and barriers to new project implementation and work with hard-to-get-to demographics.
We bring together a range of creative design expertise and digital fabrication technologies to champion the value of design as a tool for creativity, innovation and business growth.
Consultancy Services
Who We Work With

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/servicesforbusiness/ourexpertise/knowledgetransferpartnerships:
Access Our Expertise
KTP is a world-leading Innovate UK initiative that helps businesses succeed by connecting them to the UK's rich academic resources.
It's a dynamic three-way partnership between an organisation seeking expertise, a university, and a graduate.
The cost of a KTP project is shared by the business and by Innovate UK and other government based funders who contribute 50-75% of the project cost via a grant to the academic or research organisation.
The business makes a cash contribution for the remaining project cost with third sector parties covering 25% of the costs, small-to-medium business contributing 33% and a large business or public sector organisation 50% per annum.
Applications for KTPs enjoy a high chance of being successful, with around 90% of applications being accepted.
The cost to the business is comparable to employing a well-qualified graduate, but includes so much more:
We are proud to partner with Princes Group Ltd.
on a KTP project, bringing in expertise from our National Centre for Food Manufacturing (NCFM).
Academics Dr Essam Hebishy, Senior Lecturer in Food Science and Technology, and Dr Bukola Onarinde, Associate Professor have been working on the project with KTP Associate and Food Scientist, Arianna Ortali, and the product development and innovation team at Princes.
The University of Lincoln's Biomechanics team, led by Dr Franky Malloy, is working with Arktis Endurance Textiles Ltd.
on a Knowledge Transfer Partnership project which applies scientific principles and biomechanical analysis techniques to enhance the research and development process for police, military and outdoor load bearing equipment.
Running until Autumn 2024, this KTP between the School of Engineering and Physical Sciences and Eminox Ltd.
aims to develop a combined emission after-treatment and exhaust heat recovery system for hydrogen and/or ammonia fuelled combustion engines, in particular for heavy-duty applications, in order to achieve clean emissions and high engine efficiency under zero carbon emissions.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/servicesforbusiness/businessfunding:
Enabling Growth
Growing your business is not always straightforward and financial constraints can hinder innovation and expansion.
Working with the University of Lincoln can enable you to access a specialist service, expertise or capability that may not have otherwise been available to you.
It can also support innovative partnerships between your business, the University and public and third sector organisations.
Within the Research and Enterprise team, we have a broad range of expertise in the development of collaborative funding proposals.
This is designed to support innovative partnerships between the University and private, public and third sector organisations.
We will work with you to identify appropriate funding mechanisms, then support you through proposal development and submission as well as managing IP and contract negotiations.
We aim to support you throughout the life-cycle of your project.
There are a range of funding opportunities available for new and established businesses and working with a university can enhance and strengthen your application.
Current opportunities include European funding, Research Councils UK, Innovate UK and a range of charities.
Productivity Programme for Greater Lincolnshire
The Productivity Programme for Greater Lincolnshire is funded by the ERDF and is delivered by the University of Lincoln.
It is designed to enable SMEs to advance and develop their innovation and productivity ambitions through a programme of grant funding, events, Continuing Professional Development (CPD) and support.
Collaboration with the academic capacity of the University delivers technical knowledge and expertise, while a dedicated internship programme seeks to provide businesses with graduate-level skills.
For more information email productivity@lincoln.ac.uk .
Innovate UK
Innovate UK is part of UK Research and Innovation, a non-departmental public body funded by a grant-in-aid from the UK government.
They drive productivity and economic growth by supporting businesses to develop and realise the potential of new ideas, including those from the UK’s world-class research base.
Working in collaboration with research funding councils, business, and academia, Innovate UK provides grants to UK companies of all sizes to stimulate business led-innovation.
The government has set an ambition for the UK to become the most innovative country in the world, and as part of the modern Industrial Strategy, has committed to raise investment in research and development (R&D) to 2.4% of GDP by 2027.
For more information about how the University of Lincoln can support your business growth with Innovate UK funding, email enterprise@lincoln.ac.uk or call 0800 915 5278.
Grants and Funding
Funding your business can sometimes be quite daunting but Sparkhouse can offer support with developing your business plan and financial forecast.
These are vital to secure funding from banks, angel networks or investors.
Sparkhouse also offers a range of workshops that outline what investors/banks are looking for.
Visit the Sparkhouse website for more information or contact the Sparkhouse team on 01522 837200 or at sparkhouse@lincoln.ac.uk .
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships
The University of Lincoln has a wealth of experience with part-funded Knowledge Transfer Partnership schemes.
It has conducted more than 60 projects with with organisations of many different sizes from a range of sectors.
If you would like to find out how your business could benefit from a KTP, contact the Research and Enterprise team on 0800 915 5278 or email enterprise@lincoln.ac.uk .
Further information on the scheme can also be found on our KTP webpage.
Graduate Internship Scheme
The University is pleased to be able to offer our highly-successful Graduate Internship Scheme.
The scheme allows us to offer businesses a £1,000 bursary to recruit one of our talented graduates for a minimum three-month period.
If you have never recruited a graduate, this is an ideal scheme to explore their potential, with minimal risk for you as an employer.
To find out more contact a member of the Careers team on 01522 837828 or email careers@lincoln.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/servicesforbusiness/whoweworkwith/heritage:
The University of Lincoln is one of the UK’s leading centres for heritage expertise, research, and hands-on practical support for a range of conservation and restoration projects.
The technical expertise of our accredited conservators, researchers, and historians, paired with our first-class laboratories enable the University of Lincoln to work on some of the UK’s most iconic buildings and heritage projects across the four corners of the UK and beyond.
Our expertise with architectural paint research helps many of our UK wide clients to rediscover the decorative history of many iconic UK buildings and structures.
We have accredited paintings conservators.
We help conserve historic interiors including historic materials analysis, and objects conservation.
Our academics also offer extensive services related to digital and creative heritage such as 3D scanning and replication, digital archiving, and the creation of heritage archives and networks.
We have provided historical advisors for film, television, and set design, facilitated historic re-enactments for heritage festivals and events, and offered insight into climate change and its impact on the historic built environment.
Over recent years our clients have included English Heritage, The National Trust, The National Army Museum, The National Museum for the Royal Navy, Historic Royal Palaces, Landmark Trust, Historic Environment Scotland, churches, numerous local authorities, preservation trusts, leading architectural firms, and building contractors.
Rediscovering our decorative past
Lincoln Conservation is one of the UK’s leading centres for research and conservation of interior and exterior decorative schemes and has helped to reinstate many iconic buildings, historic interiors, royal palaces, maritime heritage, military vehicles, historic artefacts, easel paintings, and historic paint analysis.
Lincoln Conservation were commissioned to undertake architectural paint research to define the original colour scheme for the iconic clock face of Big Ben.
The team’s contribution to the redecoration of the famous clock-face featured in numerous news stories including Channel 4’s programme Big Ben: Restoring the World-Famous Clock.
Read about the project
Lincoln Conservation in collaboration with the University’s Designblok team undertook the challenge to digitally record and remanufacture the late 19th-century ceiling panels at the Grade I listed Buxton Crescent, following the original design and materials as closely as possible.
Lincoln Conservation have been commissioned numerous times by the NMRN to carry out a programme of research and analysis of the historic paint schemes and other materials for several iconic warships including HMS Victory, HMS Trincomalee, HMS Caroline, HMS Warrior and other maritime vessels.
Invisible Worlds is an exciting new digital installation project for the National Trust at Alderley Edge.
The project is a collaboration between an interdisciplinary team of researchers including the University of Lincoln’s heritage and creative app development teams.
The team are working with the Diocese of Lincoln, Lincoln Cathedral, and Historic England to standardise measurements of bioreceptivity (how likely surface growth is to develop on stones) and biodeterioration, as well as investigating eco-friendly alternatives to the chemical biocides currently used on stone to control biological growth.
If you are interested in finding out how the University of Lincoln could help your business or organisation, feel free to contact us.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/servicesforbusiness/whoweworkwith/digitalandcreative:
Our team of creative professionals, researchers, innovators, technicians, and academic experts utilise a wide range of new digital technologies to create innovative solutions for a diverse range of industries.
We help design new products and use digital fabrication tools to build prototypes.
We create and build new digital immersive environments, events, and experiences and we help clients communicate in new and novel ways to reach new audiences.
In the digital and creative sector, we have a broad range of expertise including around virtual augmented environments and experiences, app development, interactive solutions, and virtual immersive training.
Our staff are experts in new product design, service and user-centred design, digital fabrication and prototyping, 3D scanning, replications, and reverse engineering.
We also yield excellent results in content creation, storytelling and production, events design and production, and strategic business communications analysis.
Our creative expertise and our digital worlds have a host of applications for many industries including tourism, manufacturing, corporate communications and marketing, health and wellbeing, architects, museums, heritage, and facilities management.
A new augmented reality (AR) and geolocation powered history hunt aimed at enhancing the visitor experience in Mablethorpe is available to download and explore.
The Mablethorpe Histories AR app has been developed by the University of Lincoln's Emmersive team, commissioned by Lincolnshire County Council through the coastal communities fund.
The StageLinc team have been approached by the Lost Village Festival team to build a bespoke bar installation for the brewery Beavertown.
The Emmersive team developed an AR app to help celebrate 100 years of the Royal Air Force (RAF).
Users can create their own flypasts, capture and collect aircrafts, view them in scaled AR and learn more about their technical specifications and history.
Contact Emmersive
Conservation of three replica Terracotta Warriors from the Shaanxi province in Xian, China.
This included the digital replication of a new head for one of the warriors including 3D printing and detailed finishing to replicate terracotta.
Please feel free to contact us to begin learning how we could help develop your business.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/abouttheuniversity/sustainability/netzero:
We are proud to integrate the net-zero agenda into every aspect of our operations, including teaching and learning, impactful research, industry partnerships, and our day-to-day estates operations.
We are dedicated to empowering our students to become informed global citizens and agents of change by integrating sustainability into the curriculum.
We believe that by embedding net-zero thinking into our teaching and learning, we can inspire our students to become innovative problem solvers, capable of designing sustainable solutions for real-world challenges.
We work closely with businesses and cluster networks to co-create solutions that reduce carbon emissions, promote sustainable practices, and drive innovation in our region and beyond.
Our industrial partnerships range from collaborations with SMEs like Saga Robotics, to large-scale projects with multinational large organisations, such as Tesco.
We’re also the proud educational partner to the Yorkshire Energy Park, a next generation energy and technology business park that will drive economic growth, support the local community, and help position the Humber at the forefront of the global transition to net zero.
Based in our School of Architecture and the Built Environment, this team of specialist architects, building physicists, BREEAM assessors, and experts can offer a range of support to business undertaking low carbon construction projects.
Our National Centre for Food Manufacturing (NCFM) is proud to partner with Princes Group Ltd on a Knowledge Transfer Partnership, bringing in expertise to develop a more fundamental scientific understanding of the canning process of legumes and seek better yield, product weight control, and reduction in water usage.
The Refrigeration Research Centre is the first facility of its kind in the world.
Harnessing cutting-edge technology, it precisely models the essential dynamics of a typical supermarket and is the location for pioneering research being carried out in collaboration with global retailer Tesco, in a bid to tackle the impact of mass refrigeration.
Refrigeration Research
The University of Lincoln has been announced as the principal education partner of the £200m Yorkshire Energy Park.
The University will establish a campus and aim to upskill and reskill those based in the park, retaining and bolstering talent and skills in key industries within the Humber region.
Yorkshire Energy Park
Our research is also firmly focused on the net-zero agenda.
Our research portfolio spans a wide range of disciplines, including renewable energy, sustainable agriculture, law and social policy, and the circular economy, among others.
The University of Lincoln is committed to embedding sustainability as a core value running throughout all its activities and to demonstrate leadership in the transition to net zero.
We are working towards a target to reach Net Zero by 2040 and have committed to supporting other organisations in order to collaboratively address the Climate and Ecological Emergency we are facing.
A Sustainable Campus
Read more about our Environmental Sustainability strategy at https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/strategicplan/environmentalsustainability/ .
You can also view our latest sustainability report and follows news and updates at https://estates.lincoln.ac.uk/sustainability/ .
The University maintains the internationally recognised ISO14001 standard for Environmental Management, the ISO5001 standard for Energy Management, and the EcoCampus Platinum award.
The new thermally efficient building is designed to minimise energy consumption.
It is designed to produce 15% of its electricity use and is heated and cooled by a Hybrid VRF Heat Pump system.
Natural daylighting and ventilation has been maximised.
The building achieved BREEAM ‘Excellent’ and an Energy Performance Certificate ‘A’.
Our wider sustainability strategy includes three key strands, which categorise the multitude of work taking place within our institution to tackle the climate and ecological emergency.
These are: Sustainable Campus; Sustainable Culture; and Collaboration for Change.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/servicesforbusiness/whoweworkwith/santanderpartnership:
As a member of the Santander Universities Global Division, the University of Lincoln forms part of an international network of more than 1,200 higher education institutions in over 20 countries which share three common goals; internationalisation, transfer of knowledge, and fostering of entrepreneurial skills.
At Lincoln, Santander provides funding support for students, giving them access to mobility awards as well as a programme to help develop business and entrepreneurial skills.
Mobility scholarships aim to help undergraduate and postgraduate research students gain experience at another institution in the international Santander Universities network, while entrepreneurs are also supported in a variety of ways, including an annual business pitching competition which gives student and graduate business ventures a financial boost.
If you'd like to find out more about the University of Lincoln's partnership with Santander, please get in touch.
Development Communications, Development and Marketing University of Lincoln Brayford Pool Lincoln LN6 7TS
+44 (0)1522 835835

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/engphys:
The School of Engineering and Physical Sciences brings together a range of related fields, giving students the chance to explore some of the key scientific fields that are driving forward the latest technologies.
Teaching is underpinned by the latest academic research, and our students can benefit from a wealth of opportunities to gain practical experience in their field.
Explore our subject hub to find out more about Computer Science and Games Computing at Lincoln.
Explore the Subject
Explore our subject hub to find out more about Engineering at Lincoln.
Explore our subject hub to find out more about Mathematics at Lincoln.
Explore our subject hub to find out more about Physics at Lincoln.
Explore our subject hub to find out more about Robotics and AI at Lincoln.
Explore our staff list to find out more about their specialisms and expertise.
View School Staff List
The University of Lincoln maintains an Industrial Advisory Board to utilise their perspective and experience to enhance the School’s position, as a centre of excellence for teaching, learning, and research with a view to maximising employability, opportunities for graduates, and to promote relevant activities and the ethos of the School.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/servicesforbusiness/whoweworkwith/gleam-network:
The Greater Lincolnshire Engineering And Manufacturing (GLEAM) Network is an initiative founded by the School of Engineering and Physical Sciences , Greater Lincolnshire Local Enterprise Partnership (GLLEP) , and Business Lincolnshire .
The GLLEP Manufacturing Strategy identified greater alignment between the manufacturing sector, the University of Lincoln, and the wider community.
The GLEAM Network aims to bring all of these together to solve sector-wide challenges and establish a community for our region's manufacturing businesses to connect.
Having already delivered a range of successful virtual events, the network works to support the growth and development of SMEs and large organisations by promoting best practice, innovative solutions, partnership opportunities, and showcase technological advances, cutting-edge thinking, and act as a knowledge-transfer vehicle between academia and industry.
GLEAM provides a knowledge-intensive business corridor locally at the heart of the manufacturing business in Greater Lincolnshire and is open to all manufacturing businesses in Greater Lincolnshire.
Members are able to join free of charge and gain access to a range of benefits, including Affiliate Partner Membership with Make UK .
To express an interest in membership or for more information please email the GLEAM Network team via gleam@lincoln.ac.uk .
If you work for a manufacturing business in Greater Lincolnshire or the Rutland, we'd love for you to join our network.
Compete our registration form to gain membership to GLEAM, free of charge.
Business Lincolnshire hosts a Growth Hub – a single place to go to for business experts and mentors, support and guidance, grants and finance.
The purpose of the Greater Lincolnshire LEP is to drive economic growth and to be the voice of the local business community, ensuring that the economic interests of the area are properly represented.
Make UK are the voice of British manufacturing and will work with GLMN to deliver the best business environment for our sector.
GLMN members are entitled to Affiliate Membership of Make UK, offering access to a range of sector events, resources and discounted products and services.
The University of Lincoln is home to NCFM - a hub of innovation, product development and educational opportunities for the Food and Drinks sector, located in Holbeach.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/servicesforbusiness/ourfacilities/brayfordpoolcampus:
Conferences and Events
The University's Brayford Pool Campus is located in the heart of our historic city, set on the picturesque Brayford Pool waterfront.
From 100-500 person capacity, our state-of-the-art lecture theatres spread across our Brayford campus can accommodate a number of set ups, whatever your event.
For smaller events, we have a number of meeting spaces and seminar rooms available.
Like our lecture theatres, all are equipped with the latest AV and projection facilities.
Our atrium spaces in the heart of our city campus offer unique, stylish, and spacious settings, perfect for hospitality, drinks receptions, informal presentations, and exhibitions.
For BBQs and drinks receptions to exhibitions and sporting activities, our outdoor space can host a variety of events and activities.
To enquire about our range of spaces or to see how we could help you, please contact us through our email address below, or by completing the contact form .

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/servicesforbusiness/ourfacilities/riseholmepark:
Take your meeting outside in our tranquil green spaces.
Whether it's team building, an outdoor exhibition, or a wedding reception, the possibilities are endless.
Surrounded by woodlands and close to the lake, the conference centre is perfect for hosting larger events and conferences.
Built in 1780, this Grade II listed hall has event space overlooking Riseholme lake, perfect for smaller meetings and events.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/holbeach:
The National Centre for Food Manufacturing (NCFM) is a satellite campus of the University of Lincoln, situated in Holbeach in South Lincolnshire.
NCFM is leading progress across the food sector, offering part-time study options for food industry employees and partnering with employers to drive innovation.
Our part-time apprenticeships and distance-learning provision are designed to enable employees to study flexibly, acknowledging the demands of working within a fast-moving, dynamic industry.
To help the sector innovate, we offer employers access to our outstanding range of specialist facilities, laboratories, and cutting-edge automation.
This industry-driven MSc in Food Manufacturing has been developed with leading food and drink industry experts.
The programme is designed to enhance students expertise and practical skills in food manufacturing, sustainability, sustainable technologies, and innovation, empowering graduates to lead and manage initiatives within the food and drink sector.
We are committed to partnering with employers to develop and deliver apprenticeships to meet their needs.
We aim to provide the best experience for apprenticeships through flexible delivery and innovative teaching.
Apprenticeships
The NCFM supports food industry businesses with a variety of consultancy services, opportunities to work with our academic scientists utilising specialist facilities, and training courses to advance employees' careers.
Services
With sector links and close academic collaborations, our multidisciplinary research for the food industry has expanded quickly to support the sector's growth.
Research at NCFM
Work-based distanced learning alumnus, Shane Rawlings, delivered an inspirational alumni speech at our September graduations.
He was already in the world of work when, at the age of 25, he decided he needed a career change to find something he was passionate about.
Shane graduated from the University of Lincoln's National Centre for Food Manufacturing in 2021.
This session updates on all Learning and Development provision from the National Centre for Food Manufacturing.
It would be useful for those with responsibility for L&D and early careers within the food and drink and agri-food sectors.
Program leaders will briefly update you on changes to apprentice rules such as the removal of mandatory functional skills, career pathway programs in technical, operations and engineering, short courses and bootcamps  and answer your questions.
All are welcome.
The University of Lincoln's Holbeach Campus is home to the National Centre for Food Manufacturing (NCFM).
This hub provides specialist facilities and industry-standard equipment, including analytical laboratories with a test kitchen and sensory testing suite, a technician training centre, and processing facilities.
The NCFM campus is situated on the South Lincolnshire Food Enterprise Zone (FEZ), a specialist business park designed to advance the food-tech and food manufacturing sectors.
The £10m NCFM campus includes a Digital Food Manufacturing Technologies Centre, part of the Lincolnshire Institute of Technology , complementing the Food Automation, Robotics and Processing Research Centre on Park Road.
The Institute aligns with the national initiative to enhance the employment potential of young people and adults.
The programmes have been designed with employers, colleges, and universities to provide the best preparation for workplaces with clear career progression.
At Lincoln, we specifically aim to play a role in building a dynamic, technology-driven economy.
To this end, we also have an archive of webinars where we have shared masterclasses, apprenticeship overviews, and thought-provoking lectures from academic experts.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/liat:
The Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology (LIAT) based at the University’s Riseholme Campus is home to a working farm with specialist research facilities.
LIAT’s multi-disciplinary team brings together sector-leading expertise in a diverse range of areas such as; artificial intelligence, robotics, engineering, crop science, environmental sustainability, food manufacturing, product development and supply chains.
Our goals include supporting and enhancing the future of food and agriculture productivity, efficiency, and sustainability through research, education, and technology.
Find out more about the latest news and events happening at Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology, Lincoln Agri-Robotics and AgriFoRwArdS.
The campus comprises of a mixed farm including arable, woodland, watercourses, livestock, and teaching and research facilities.
Find out more about our range of industry partnerships and commercial activities.
The Queen’s Anniversary Prize is the highest National Honour in UK further and higher education, recognising outstanding work by UK colleges and universities showing excellence, innovation and benefit to the wider world.
First awarded in 1994, the Prizes are granted every two years by the Sovereign on the advice of the Prime Minister following a rigorous independent review process by The Royal Anniversary Trust, an independent charity.
The University of Lincoln is one of 22 winners in the 15th round of the scheme.
LIAT offer a range of study options from short courses including BASIS and FACTS, Level 6 Apprenticeship, Masters, PhD and research opportunities focused on agricultural technology and innovation.
Postgraduate student Roopika Ravikanna talks about her research into improving how autonomous agricultural robots can collaborate with human workers at the Centre for Doctoral Training.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/virtualevents:
Virtual Events are a great way to discover what it is like to live and study at the University of Lincoln.
The events, which are hosted by staff from across the University, are also designed to help you find out more about the steps you need to take before starting your studies with us.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/eventsandconferences/upcomingevents/geography,conference,-,17th,sept,2025.html:
9.00am
University of Lincoln
Brayford Pool
Lincoln
LN6 7TS
Please join the Department of Geography (University of Lincoln) and Geographical Association Lincoln Branch for a full programme of talks and activities at the Annual Sixth Form Geography Conference 2025.
Attendance is free to all sixth forms including staff.
The day will include a series of talks spanning Physical and Human Geography delivered by members of the Department of Geography, interactive engagements using some of the equipment and facilities held at the University of Lincoln and an informal session where students can receive answers to their geographical questions from experts in the field (there will be opportunity for students and teachers to submit questions ahead of the conference, as well as during, using a digital survey to be shared in due course)
Draft Programme:
Optional Tour for early arrivals: Critical Geographies of the Brayford Campus
Prof Edward Hanna
The Cryosphere in Crisis: Snow and Ice as Planetary Health Indicators
Dr Edward Hanna
Working with Water: How Nature-based Solutions will shape future flood risk
Bart Hill
12:00 –13:00
Lunch break including placement poster showcase in INB Atrium and optional critical geographical tour of Brayford Campus (see overleaf)
Lunch break including placement poster in INB Atrium and optional critical geographical tour of Brayford Campus (see overleaf)
13:00 – 13:30
The Politics of Nature: More Than Just the Environment
Dr Anna Bedenk-Smith and Dr Jess Marah-Jones
13:30 – 14:15
Your Geography Questions Answered
Staff and Students, Dept.
of Geography, University of Lincoln
14:15 - Close
Closing remarks and any follow-up questions

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/eventsandconferences/upcomingevents/future-entrepreneurs-day.html:
10.15am
Brayford Pool Campus, Lincoln, LN6 7DQ
On Wednesday 19 November, Year 12 and 13 students with a passion for entrepreneurship are invited to the University of Lincoln for an inspiring and interactive day focused on developing entrepreneurial mindsets and skills.
This event will empower students to think creatively, take initiative, and explore the world of innovation through hands-on activities and expert-led sessions.
Students can also discover how to make the most of opportunities outside their academic studies, gaining valuable experiences and enhancing their personal and professional growth.
Whether they dream of launching a startup or simply want to learn new skills, this event is a great next step in their journey.
Expected timetable:
If you have any questions about this event, please contact educationliaison@lincoln.ac.uk .
Book your place

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studentlife/graduation/graduationtermsandconditions:
It is the responsibility of graduands to read and understand these Graduation Terms and Conditions.
Graduands must also advise any guests to familiarise themselves with these Terms and Conditions.
1.
Definitions
1.1 The following definitions will be used in this document
Graduand/Student/You : The graduating student
University/We/Us : The University of Lincoln
Graduation : This refers to the ceremony and the reception
Ceremony : This refers to just the ceremony and not the reception
Venue : Lincoln Cathedral and Lincoln Castle
2.
2.1 Registration
Registration to attend Graduation will open on Friday 16 May and closes at midnight on Thursday 24 July 2025 .
Registration is for the ceremonies taking place from Monday 8 September 2025 to Thursday 11 September inclusively and Monday 15 September .
Graduands who register before the deadline of Thursday 24 July 2025 will be entitled to initially purchase two guest tickets and, subject to availability, there will be further opportunities to purchase additional guest tickets after initial registration has closed.
The University will notify all registered students via their registered email regarding the availability of tickets.
When booking your place to attend graduation, it is your responsibility to check that all details relating to yourself, or your award are correct throughout the booking process.
If the incorrect award is stated this will be reflected in the ceremony brochure and the award read out within the ceremony.
It could also affect the robe you have booked for your ceremony.
Please contact the Graduation Team as soon as possible if anything is incorrect.
After the booking deadline it may not be possible for any amends to be reflected in the ceremony programme.
Graduands are invited to register for Graduation directly via their student email address and will only be invited to the ceremony in which their department and course is scheduled.
2.2 Late Registration
Graduands need to register to attend graduation ceremonies no later than Thursday 25 July 2025.
Registration after the closing date will be considered at the discretion of the University.
Allocation of guest tickets to purchase, including extra guest tickets, for graduands who register after the deadline stated in 2.1 cannot be guaranteed and will be allocated at the discretion of the University based on availability.
In the event that graduands miss the registration deadline, please contact the Graduation Team at graduation@lincoln.ac.uk
3.
3.1 To be eligible to attend a graduation ceremony graduands must have:
3.2 Resits
Graduands with resits will not be eligible to attend the graduation ceremonies taking place in September as final results will not have been conferred by a Board of Examiners or End Point Assessor and released in time to attend.
Graduands will be invited to attend the next available ceremony series taking place in 2026, subject to an award being conferred by a Board of Examiners or End Point Assessor.
3.3 Extensions
Graduands with extensions and where an award has not been conferred by a University of Lincoln Board of Examiners or End Point Assessor by the 31 July will not be eligible to attend the September 2025 graduation ceremonies.
Graduands will be invited to attend the next ceremonies taking place in 2026, subject to an award being conferred by a Board of Examiners or End Point Assessor.
3.4 Extenuating Circumstances
Graduands with approved extenuating circumstances and where an award has not been conferred by a University of Lincoln Board of Examiners or End Point Assessor by the 31 July, will not be eligible to attend the September graduation ceremonies and will be re-invited to the next available ceremony that they are eligible for.
Please note; where extenuating circumstances, resits or extensions are approved, the University will assume you wish to resubmit.
In this instance, if you do not wish to resubmit and instead wish to attend the September ceremonies, you must notify the University in writing no later than the 24 July 2025 by emailing assessments@lincoln.ac.uk confirming your intention not to resubmit and instead accept any final award to which you are eligible.
Where notification is not received by the Thursday 24 July the University will assume you intend to make a re-submission, your eligibility to attend the University’s upcoming graduation ceremony will be rescinded and you will instead be invited to attend the University’s next graduation ceremony that you are eligible for.
3.5 Debtors
Students with debts to the University will not be eligible to graduate, please arrange to pay all outstanding debts to the University before the end of your studies to ensure you are eligible to attend.
4.
Ticketing
The University of Lincoln graduation ceremonies are ticketed events.
Graduand and guest admittance to the ceremony and celebration reception is subject to graduands and guests producing a relevant ticket for the event upon entry.
The University reserves the right to refuse entry without a ticket.
All tickets must be collected by the graduand on the day of the ceremony that they are registered to attend from the location stated by the University of Lincoln.
4.1 Graduand Tickets
Graduand tickets are available on a first come, first served basis and could sell out before the booking deadline of Thursday 24 July at midnight.
If there are no places left you will be invited to the next available ceremony series in 2026, as long as you contact the Graduation Team in advanced to ask to be deferred.
4.2 Guest Tickets
All graduands who register before the deadline of the Thursday 24 July are entitled to purchase two guest tickets at the time of booking.
Children aged 1 or under can attend the ceremony free of charge, providing that they sit on a guest's lap .
In order to monitor capacity, graduands will be asked to indicate when booking if they will be bringing any children aged one or under with them.
They will then be issued a special ticket on the day.
4.3 Extra Guest Tickets
Extra guest tickets over and above the guest ticket allocation stated in 4.2 will be subject to availability.
The number of extra tickets available for each registered graduand to purchase will be calculated for each ceremony after the initial registration has closed on the Thursday 24 July.
If extra tickets are available, these will be limited in number and sold on a first come, first serve basis.
All graduands who have registered to attend a ceremony will be notified by email of any details regarding extra tickets.
Extra ticket prices are as follows:
4.4 Ticketing and late registration
Allocation of tickets, including graduand, guest and extra tickets, to graduands who register after the deadline of the Thursday 24 July will be at the discretion of the University and will be subject to availability as stated in 2.2.
4.5 Registered carers
Graduands may request a complimentary ticket for a registered carer at the discretion of the University.
Proof of carer status will be required before.
Please contact graduation@lincoln.ac.uk with confirmation of the registered carer name and registration number/confirmation letter.
4.6 Special requirements including accessibility
If any graduand or guest has a specific health requirement regarding seating arrangements in theCathedral, please provide details through the William Northam booking system.
The Graduation team will then be in touch should they need to confirm any arrangements.
Any information provided, is held securely and only shared with those involved in the running of the ceremony, such as the graduation ushers.
Please note, animals are not permitted with the exception of service dogs.
It is the responsibility of students to inform the Graduation Team of any accessibility requirements for if a student fails to register accessibility requirements for themselves or guests in advance of their ceremony the University cannot guarantee they can be met.
Students should contact the Graduation Team as soon as possible if they have not indicated special requirements on the online registration form.
5.
Attendance
5.1 Arrival times
All graduands and their guests must be seated in the Cathedral at least 30 minutes prior to the start of the ceremony.
Graduands who arrive after this time will be not permitted.
5.2 Late Graduands
Graduands who arrive late will not be permitted as per timings giving in 5.1.
5.3 Late guests
Late arriving guests may not be permitted entry once the ceremony has commenced.
5.4 Children
Children are welcome at Graduation ceremonies; however, the University of Lincoln advises that the Graduation Ceremonies are not wholly suitable for babies or young children as they are long, formal occasions.
Any children in attendance must have a ticket and any under the age of 16 must be always accompanied by an adult over the age of 18.
We reserve the right to ask any adult to take their child out of the Cathedral if the child becomes distressed or behaves in a way which is disruptive to the proceedings or to other guests.
The ceremony will be live streamed on our website so you will still be able to watch the ceremony.
5.5 Behaviour
Instructions from staff both verbally and on screens about behaviour should be adhered to at all times.
Failure to do so risks removal from the ceremony.
5.6 Ceremony Length
All graduands and their guests should remain until the ceremony ends to minimise disruption and to ensure that each graduand’s achievements are honoured in the same way.
The University aims to keep ceremonies approximately to 1 hour and 30 minutes long.
The start and the end of the ceremony is announced by the academic procession.
On completion of the ceremony, our new graduates are invited to join the academic procession and we ask that guests join the procession behind our graduates as it is led out of the Cathedral.
5.7 Mobile Phones
Mobile phones and other electronic devices must be turned off or put on silent mode.
You must refrain from making or taking phone calls during the graduation ceremony.
To maintain the dignity of the ceremony and ensure a smooth experience for all, we kindly ask that graduands do not use mobile phones while crossing the stage.
6.
Non-Attendance
6.1 Defer
Graduands will need to email the Graduation Team graduation@lincoln.ac.uk by Thursday 24 July.
6.2 Do not wish to attend a ceremony
Graduands who do not wish to attend a graduation ceremony may notify the Graduation Team of their intention not to attend by emailing the Graduation Team graduation@lincoln.ac.uk.
The Graduation Team will assume that graduands who do not complete the online registration process or contact the Graduation Team regarding their attendance or future attendance, do not wish to attend a ceremony, nor one in the future.
Graduands with resits, extensions or approved extenuating circumstances will be automatically invited to attend a future ceremony once their award has been conferred by a Board of Examiners.
6.3 Certificates and Transcripts
Certificates and transcript will be posted to the permanent home address that we hold for you on our records.
Graduands are responsible for ensuring the University holds the most up to date contact details against their records.
To update your contact details please email studentrecords@lincoln.ac.uk
7.
Refunds
7.1 Guest Tickets
We encourage graduands to only buy the number of tickets that they require for Graduation as tickets are non-refundable.
If guests cannot attend following purchase and it is felt that extenuating circumstances apply, please contact the Graduation Team who will review on a case-by-case basis.
If successful, the University will contact William Northam and ask them to refund you.
The refund deadline for September 2025 ceremonies is 24 July 2025.
Guest tickets are non-transferable to any other ceremony or to another student.
The University will not accept any tickets that have been transferred between students at Graduation.
7.2 Gown Hire
If students are unable to attend and require a refund for gown hire, they must contact the gowning company, William Northam by emailing student@williamnortham.com.
Refunds for gown hire which are requested less than seven days before the ceremony series starts are subject to review and are offered at William Northam’s discretion.
7.3 Travel and Accommodation
We recommend not booking travel or accommodation until you know you have completed your award.
We recognise that this is not always possible in the case of international travel, but the University does not accept liability for any costs or expenses incurred by those due to attend the ceremony.
8.
Gown Hire and Dress
8.1 Requirements
It is a requirement that all graduands attending their graduation ceremony wear the appropriate University of Lincoln academic dress.
This can be hired or bought from William Northam, the University academic gown hire company via - http://www.williamnortham.com/Northams/Index.aspx.
Graduands with concerns regarding this requirement, should contact graduation@lincoln.ac.uk for further guidance.
8.2 Recommended attire for students
Graduation is a formal occasion and, as your clothes can be seen under your gown, we recommend that you wear smart, formal dress.
Graduands are very welcome to wear national dress.
8.3 Recommended Attire for Guests
There is no dress code for guests but as the ceremony is a formal occasion, we recommend that all guests wear smart dress.
9.
Graduation ceremonies as a Public Event
9.1 Publications
The University of Lincoln’s bi-annual graduation ceremonies held in April/May and September are public events.
This means that the names and award titles, but no classifications, of all graduands (including those graduating in absentia) are published in the graduation brochure.
9.2 Filming and Photography
The University of Lincoln film and photograph the graduation ceremonies.
These images are to be used by the University for use within marketing materials and on the University website (including social media).
By attending graduation, graduands, and guests give their consent to the recording and transmission of their images.
A professional film recording is taken of all graduation ceremonies.
These are streamed onto the University of Lincoln website and on selected screens on campus as a live broadcast.
By registering to take part in the graduation ceremony, graduands, are confirming that they and their guests have given permission for their image to be recorded.
Other professional photography and videography takes place within our Graduation venues and on campus on behalf of the University during graduation which may be used for University of Lincoln marketing purposes.
Graduands and their guests may also take photographs and film at Graduation.
You must not use flash photography or obstruct the view within the Cathedral which may impact professional filming or the experience of other guests.
If you are asked to move for this reason, failure to comply may result in removal from the ceremony.
The use of phones or cameras on stage is not permitted.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/alumnicommunity/orderacertificate:
Requests for replacement certificates and transcripts are processed by the Student Administration team.
The certificate the University issues is proof of the conferment of your award and is a unique and valuable document.
Under no circumstances will the University issue additional or duplicate copies of your certificate if you still have within your possession the original certificate.
Replacement certificates can only be issued if your original certificate has been lost or damaged, and the University reserves the right not to issue a duplicate nor specify the reasons for its decision.
Replacement certificates are issued in what was your official name at the time of study.
The University is only able to issue replacement certificates for awards made by the University from 1993 onwards.
Awards before this date were made by the Council for National Academic Awards (CNAA), the Open University is now responsible for these records.
Further information can be found on the Validation Services page of the Open University .
Please complete the application form and ensure that you have attached a copy of your proof of identity (e.g.
passport, driving licence).
If you have changed your name since you were enrolled at the University please also provide proof of your name change (for example your marriage certificate or change of name deed).
Cost and Payment
All replacement certificates will be posted by DHL and the costs will be as follows:
You can download the application form and make payment via the University’s online shop.
If you have any questions about ordering a replacement certificate please contact assessments@lincoln.ac.uk
Delivery
Completed forms will normally be processed within 2 weeks, however you should allow up to 4 weeks during peak periods (June – Sept).
Forms not completed fully will not be processed and will be returned.
The Certificate will only be posted via the method you specified when placing your order to the address on the application form.
We are unable to scan and email replacement certificate to you.
Your University transcript supplements your University certificate by providing a breakdown of the modules you studied, the marks and credits you achieved and the degree date and classification.
A confirmation of Award letter can also be requested to confirm the dates you attended your University programme and the award you achieved.
If you completed your course within the last 3 months and have access to your OneUni account, please submit an online letter request through the ‘Support’ section of your account (Student Support Letter Requests).
If you no longer have access to OneUni, or you completed you course prior to this academic year, please complete the request form .
We aim to process most requests within 2 weeks, however requests for courses completed prior to 2000 please allow up to 4 weeks.
Please note that it may not be possible to produce a full transcript for students who studied prior to 2000, as transcripts were not produced by the University as a matter of course.
We cannot guarantee the completeness of records for students who studied at the University prior to 2000 or at one of our partner institutions due to system changes and institution mergers.
There is currently no charge for this service.
All students awarded a Certificate in Education prior to 1980, can now request an Honorary Degree: Bachelor of Education 'Honoris Causa'.
This honorary degree recognises the academic work undertaken to achieve the Certificate in Education.
Unfortunately, the University no longer has complete records for awards made prior to 1980, therefore any student wishing be awarded the honorary degree will need to complete the form below and send proof of their qualification, such as a copy of their certificate, transcript, or confirmation of award letter.
Currently, it may take between 4-6 weeks to process an application and issue a certificate to those who are eligible.
Certificate of Education Honorary Degree Form

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/financialposition:
The University of Lincoln, like universities across the UK, is responding to financial pressures facing our higher education sector.
This page explains more about these pressures, our University's financial status, and the steps we are taking to continue to thrive now and in the future.
Last updated: 1 May 2025
The University of Lincoln is not in financial deficit.
We returned a small surplus in the last financial year and we expect to achieve financial breakeven this year (2024/25).
We have ample liquidity to satisfy banks and regulators.
As a charity, any surplus we make is invested back into the University.
To ensure we are well-placed to respond to financial pressures facing the UK higher education sector, we are taking practical steps to balance income and expenditure.
Our latest Financial Statements can be found on our Finance Department’s microsite .
Home undergraduate tuition fees, which have not increased since 2017 and will remain frozen at £9,250 until the 2025/26 academic year, are now worth a third less in real terms compared to a decade ago.
This is the lowest real terms rate of student funding since the 1990s.
On average, universities now lose money on teaching UK undergraduate students and undertaking government-funded research.
In recent years, they have relied on other sources of income to offset these loss-making activities, the main source being enrolments of international students who usually pay higher tuition fees than domestic students.
The number of international students coming to the UK fell substantially in 2024 due to government changes in immigration policy.
Meanwhile, universities' costs are going up, from energy bills to employer pension contributions.
Universities UK, the body which represents university leaders, warned 40% of universities expected to be in deficit in 2023/24, rising to 80% in the coming years.
Analysis by the higher education sector's regulator, the Office for Students, forecast almost three quarters of universities could be in deficit in 2025/26.
For more on the financial pressures facing UK universities, see the Universities UK and PwC report, Financial Sustainability of the UK Higher Education Sector (January 2024) .
The University of Lincoln is a university of, and for, the 21st century.
The benefits we bring to our students and local communities are too important to let external pressures deter or distract us.
Our sense of purpose remains as important as ever: to transform lives and communities.
We have been meeting the needs and aspirations of our region for decades.
Our focus is to ensure that we are the right shape and size to be sustainable and successful now and as we move forward: to be fit for the future.
The vision and plan set out in our refreshed strategy can be found on our strategy page .
The University is taking prudent, practical steps to balance our income and expenditure so we can deliver our strategic priorities for the benefit of students and the communities we serve.
These measures include reducing non-pay budgets, lowering management costs, and streamlining departmental structures, as well as growing other sources of income.
The University set a balanced budget for 2024/25.
In spring 2025, we launched a voluntary exit scheme and a consultation with staff on several departmental restructures which could result in potential redundancies.
Information on what this means for staff can be found on the University's intranet .
Where any changes affect students directly, we will keep the relevant student groups informed, and engage with the University's Students' Union.
We are fortunate to be in a stable financial position, having returned modest surpluses in recent years.
This is not the norm: around 40% of universities forecast a deficit in 2023/24.
Some universities have been in deficit for three consecutive years or more.
As we look at the environment for higher education, it is difficult to see how, or when, the international student market will return to recent levels.
The increase in the undergraduate fee cap announced by the new government in November 2024 has been largely offset by the pending increase in employers' National Insurance contributions.
While we expect to achieve a financial breakeven position this year (2024/25), we must continue to carefully manage our costs and increase income from other sources so we can balance budgets, return surpluses and invest in the University.
Most universities’ main source of income – the Home undergraduate tuition fee – has been frozen by the UK government at £9,250 since 2017 and will not be increased until the 2025/26 academic year.
High inflation in recent years means the fee is now worth about two thirds in real terms compared to a decade ago.
A 3.1% increase in the fee cap in 2025/26, which the new government announced in November 2024, will not remedy almost a decade of real-terms cuts to per student funding.
Increases to employers' National Insurance contributions will also add millions of pounds in extra costs to universities.
On average, universities lose money on most undergraduate teaching (although this varies at subject and institutional level).
Until recently, universities have partially covered the cost of these loss-making activities with the higher fees paid by international students but changes to immigration policies have seen a sudden decline in the attractiveness of the UK as a study destination.
Universities UK (UUK) and various other sector bodies have made the case to government that the UK higher education funding system is no longer sustainable.
A report was released by PWC, commissioned by UUK, in January 2024 making it clear to government the challenges facing the sector, titled Financial sustainability of UK universities: PwC findings.
Prior to the UK General Election on 4 July 2024, the University published its first ever manifesto calling on Lincolnshire's parliamentary candidates to support higher education in our region and recognise the role of universities in creating opportunity, enhancing productivity, and stimulating economic growth.
The University has been reviewing how efficiently we deliver our teaching, including our portfolio, assessment methods and student-to-staff ratios.
Protecting the student experience is an absolute priority and where any changes could have a material impact on students, we will consult locally and engage with the Students' Union.
We are also looking at how we deliver our Professional Services, across central services and colleges, more efficiently so that we can continue to support and enhance the student experience.
For staff
More information for colleagues can be found on the Department of People, Performance and Culture microsite or the Strategy Hub intranet site .
For students
Support and contact information can be found on the Student Services microsite , or through the Students’ Union.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/abouttheuniversity/governance/chancelloroftheuniversity:
Hon Professor Lord Ajay Kakkar KG KBE PC, the distinguished surgeon, scientist, and crossbench member of the House of Lords, was installed as Chancellor of the University of Lincoln in September 2023, replacing Lord Victor Adebowale CBE who held the role for almost 15 years.
Lord Kakkar is Emeritus Professor of Surgery at University College London and an independent crossbench member of the House of Lords, having been created a life peer in 2010.
He is Chairman of King’s Health Partners Academic Health Science Centre.
He was appointed as Chairman of the House of Lords Appointments Commission from 2013 to 2018 and, at the same time, was UK Business Ambassador for Healthcare and Life Sciences.
From 2016 to 2022 he served as Chair of the Judicial Appointments Commission.
Lord Kakkar completed his medical degree at King’s College London and received his PhD from Imperial College London and has been a Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons since 1992.
In 2008 he was appointed Director of the Thrombosis Research Institute in London.
His research interests include prevention and treatment of venous and arterial thromboembolic disease, and cancer-associated thrombosis; and development of novel anticoagulant drugs.
He served as Chairman of UCLPartners Academic Health Science Partnership between 2014 – 2021.
In 2020 he became Chairman of The King’s Fund, and Chairman of the board of trustees of UK Biobank.
He was appointed Chairman of the Office for Strategic Coordination of Health Research in 2021 and was recently appointed as Chairman of the Royal Commission for the Exhibition of 1851.
The Chancellor is assisted in his ceremonial duties by two Pro Chancellors, Ms Diane Lees CBE, and the immediate past Chair of the Board of Governors, Mr Haydn Biddle, who preside over the University’s graduation ceremonies.
Ms Diane Lees CBE is the current Chair of the Board of Governors.
She is Director-General of Imperial War Museums and is a Trustee of 14-18NOW, the Centenary’s Cultural Programme, as well as acting as a Trustee of the IWM Development Trust, the Gerry Holdsworth Special Forces Trust, and the Army Museums Ogilby Trust.
She is a member of the Women Leaders in Museums Network (WLMN), and also serves as Vice President of the American Air Museum in Britain.
Mr Haydn Biddle chaired the University governing body from 1 August 2012 to 31 July 2018.
He is currently Chairman of George Bateman & Son Ltd, brewers and retailers, having previously been Chief Executive.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/abouttheuniversity/governance/vicechancelloroftheuniversity:
Professor Neal Juster is Vice Chancellor of the University of Lincoln, UK, having assumed the role in October 2021.
As part of this role, he is a Director of UL Learning Resources Ltd, Riseholme Park Farms Ltd, ULEX, and UoL Services Ltd.
Neal is also a Chair of the Members Committee for the University of Lincoln Academy Trust.
A graduate of the University of Leeds, where he obtained a BSc in Mechanical Engineering and a PhD in Computer Aided Design, Neal has gained extensive experience in university management across his career.
He was a Senior Vice-Principal and Deputy Vice Chancellor at the University of Glasgow, having been initially appointed as Vice-Principal (Strategy and Resources).
Previously, he was Pro Vice-Principal, Dean of the Faculty of Engineering, and Head of Department in the Department of Design, Manufacture and Engineering Management at the University of Strathclyde, and Senior Lecturer in the Department of Mechanical Engineering at the University of Leeds.
Across his academic career, Neal's research interests were in the broad area of computer aided design, including rapid prototyping and use of virtual reality in design and manufacturing processes.
He is a Fellow of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE) and a member of the QAA Advisory Committee on Degree Awarding Powers.
Vice Chancellor Neal Juster Email: njuster@lincoln.ac.uk
Senior Executive Assistant to the Vice Chancellor Rachel Chrispin Email: rchrispin@lincoln.ac.uk Phone: 01522886100

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/abouttheuniversity/governance/financialreportsandinformation:
To view the University of Lincoln's Financial Statements please visit our Finance Department's microsite .
A PDF of the University of Lincoln's annual board remuneration report can be viewed online .
The University produces infographics to help students, staff, and other stakeholders better understand the University's income, expenditure, staff numbers, and investments.
To view the University’s Gender Pay report, please visit our Equality & Diversity microsite .
Finance Department University of Lincoln Brayford Pool Campus Lincoln LN6 7TS
finance@lincoln.ac.uk
+44 (0)1522 886705

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/abouttheuniversity/governance/charitablestatus:
The University of Lincoln is a Higher Education Corporation and, as such, is an exempt charity.
It has the charitable objectives of providing higher education and further education, and of carrying out research and publishing the results.
The University is regulated by the Office for Students as the principal regulator of English Higher Education Institutions as charities.
The members of the University's Board of Governors, who include the Vice Chancellor, staff, and students, are the trustees of the charity.
The University has one linked charity, UL Learning Resources Limited (PDF) .
The principal object of this charity is to promote the advancement of education by the provision of learning facilities, other like facilities, and services and funds for the educational and charitable needs or purposes of the University of Lincoln.
The charity is a wholly owned subsidiary of the University and the results are consolidated in the University’s financial statements.
Financial statements of UL Learning Resources Limited (PDF) .
Read More
Secretariat University of Lincoln Brayford Pool Campus Lincoln LN6 7TS

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/collegeofartssocialsciencesandhumanities:
We offer contemporary and relevant programmes across a range of sectors including Architecture, Design, Media, Journalism, Performing Arts, History, English, Business, Education, Law and Social Sciences.
People are at the heart of what we do – from exploring the roots of society and how we interact as individuals, to developing socially responsible business leaders, inspiring artists and globally driven architects.
We use curiosity, critical thinking, and creative methodologies to challenge preconceptions and forge new understandings of who we were, who we are, and who we can be.
We want to inspire you in your pursuit of success and support you to build your skills in preparation for your future.
Under the guidance of our expert team, we’ll give you opportunities to work with leading professionals and provide access to industry-standard facilities and dedicated learning spaces.
Employability is key and working collaboratively with partner organisations and businesses we’ll encourage you to gain real life experience, and teach leadership that empowers you to be ambitious, to challenge, and to innovate.
We aim to provide learning opportunities that develop our students’ curiosity, creativity, and critical thinking.
We question fundamental concepts in human society, develop business skills, and find solutions that enhance the contribution of arts, social science, and humanities to society.
Lincoln International Business School is committed to responsible management practices and aims to develop socially responsible leaders ready to meet the challenges of 21st century.
We aim to provide our students with an educational experience that is intellectually rigorous, practically playful, internationally relevant, and culturally diverse.
Our programmes are designed to equip students with the understanding and skills they will need to operate effectively within a globalised, innovation-driven economy.
Our vibrant academic community is transforming areas of education such as practice, theory, and policy, as well as institutions themselves on both a local and national scale.
I‌deally located in the heart of a historic city, the School of Humanities and Heritage offers dynamic approaches to studying human life and culture in the global 21st century.
Our School brings together industry-experienced practitioners and academic experts to deliver high-quality undergraduate and postgraduate courses as well as conduct exciting research.
‌The School of Social and Political Sciences is a hub of expertise where our academics are conducting policy shaping research in areas including criminology, international relations, and politics.
Short Courses and Professional Development
Our suite of flexible programmes include specialist short courses, online Master's degrees, and work-based learning and professional development programmes.
These are currently available across the College of Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities, in areas such as management, languages, education, and equality, diversity and inclusion.
Our Arts Foundation Year provides an alternative entry route into some of our creative degree-level programmes.
As the first of a four-year learning journey, it suits students who are unsure of their creative direction, need time to adjust to degree-level study, or do not meet the standard entry requirements, opening up an exciting world of opportunities in a range of subjects.
Our Moot Court simulates the environment of a working court room, where you can explore the key principles of modern legal practice in a variety of roles.
It features a judges' bench, witness stand, clerk desk, and benches for prosecution and defence solicitors.
Students have access to TV and radio studios, audio production, a multi-track recording studio, video editing, animation and multimedia suites, and industry specification cameras, lights, and audio recording equipment.
Explore the magnificent Lincoln Cathedral, medieval castle, archives at the International Bomber Command Centre, and Roman ruins around the city.
Or read the works of Tennyson at the Tennyson Research Centre and delve into medieval manuscripts at the Wren Library.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/collegeofhealthandscience:
Explore our diverse range of undergraduate, postgraduate taught, and postgraduate research programmes.
The College of Health and Science offers a wide range of exciting research-informed and industry-relevant programmes.
Each of our programmes is designed to provide students with a solid foundation in their chosen field, equipping them with the necessary theoretical knowledge and practical experience to excel within the industry.
Across the College, staff are working at the forefront of new discoveries, undertaking world-leading or internationally excellent research, providing students with the opportunity to learn from some of the finest thinkers in their field.
Explore the Schools within the College of Health and Science to find out more about our courses, research, facilities, and expertise.
Lincoln Medical School delivers the University of Nottingham’s Medicine and Medicine with Foundation Year degree programmes, supporting the development of the next generation of practising doctors.
Our teams are engaged in impactful research designed to make a difference across the food chain, with a clear focus on improving productivity, safety, quality, efficiency, and sustainability.
We aim to equip our graduates with the knowledge, skills, and competencies needed to pursue their ambitions and have successful and sustained careers in this dynamic field.
Health and social care practitioners can make a profound difference to the lives of vulnerable people, working in a variety of settings, including healthcare, education, and public health.
The School brings together the whole of the life, environmental, and chemical sciences and prepares students for exciting careers in industry or research.
With a range of industry and academic experience across the school, our programmes are designed to equip students with the skills they need for future careers in both research and industry.
In addition to our standard undergraduate and postgraduate programmes, the College of Health and Science also offers a range of specialist programmes including Foundation Years in a variety of science subjects, and flexible learning options across our academic schools, which are becoming an increasingly popular way for busy professionals to stay ahead in their chosen field.
Short Courses and Professional Devleopment
These are currently available across the College of Health and Science, in areas such as health and wellbeing, agri-food technology, and food manufacturing.
Our Science Foundation Year aims to prepare students for degree-level study, by equipping them with the skills and knowledge needed to be successful in science, healthcare, or engineering related subjects.
These courses are designed to open up an exciting world of opportunities within these disciplines for students who do not meet our standard entry requirements.
The Multi-Professional Hub (occupying the ground-floor of 179, facing the high street) is a collaborative space especially developed for student-run clinics.
Teaching in the College of Health and Science is delivered in purpose-built facilities, providing innovative spaces for study and research.
All of our students have access to specialist facilities across our campuses, with the aim of providing the best possible learning environment and a strong foundation to help you achieve your goals.
Psychology students have access to equipment such as a dynamic 3D body scanner, an eye-tracker, Psychophysics, Molecular lab, and driving simulator to use in their both their own research as well as at a postgraduate level as part of one of the many research groups in the School.
The clinical suites in the Sarah Swift Building are used to simulate real hospital and home environments, and feature the latest in patient simulation technology.
The suites are located in the new Sarah Swift building and are available as learning environments for students on our Nursing, Social Work, Physiotherapy, Midwifery, Paramedic Science, and Occupational Therapy courses.
The Human Performance Centre is used by the School of Sport and Exercise Science.
These specialist laboratories, feature modern equipment in order to undertake physiological and biomechanical assessments.
Our 200-hectare Riseholme Campus is located just north of Lincoln city centre and is home to the Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology (LIAT), Lincoln Agri-Robotics, and Lincoln’s Centre for Doctoral Training in Agri-Food Robotics.
The campus also has a working farm, woodlands, grasslands and watercourses making for another picturesque location to learn.
Our researchers are striving to advance knowledge in areas such as healthcare, biomedical sciences, psychology, sports science, and more.
They are working on relevant research projects that are tackling important societal issues, collaborating with experts, and generating impactful discoveries that are making a tangible difference to communities around the world.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/decolonisingatlincoln:
As a university, we are committed to upholding and recognising the five principles of our One Community Values: equality, understanding, listening, kindness, acceptance.
The institution-wide project of decolonisation at Lincoln flows from and embeds this commitment.
We hope that these pages help you to understand not only the basics of what decolonialisation means, but also helps you to find resources to ensure that we can start breaking down some of the myths around decolonising to enrich and add to our current systems of knowledge here at Lincoln.
What are the benefits?
What do we gain?
Decolonising our university means working together to reimagine our scholarship, interpersonal relations, teaching, learning, and professional practices by actively including previously marginalised knowledge and ways of knowing.
Explore the sections below to find out more about how we are approaching decolonisation across the University, from our research practice and taught curriculum, through to academic procedures and the University's working culture.
You can also find out more about how our staff and students are getting involved, and what our library is doing to support the project.
At Lincoln, we are calling for the re-imagining of different ways of knowledge inquiry and production.
To emphasise consulting, shared responsibility, and making research inquiry representative of different cultures, languages, identities, regions, and histories.
Research Practice
As a university recognise that we need to rethink, reframe, and reconstruct the current curriculum to make it better, and more inclusive.
We need to expand our notions of knowledge, so it does not always elevate one voice, one experience, and one way of being in the world.
Our Curriculum
The Lincoln Academy of Learning and Teaching (LALT) is championing the work of decolonisation through project work and staff development.
From Higher Education Academy Recognition (HEA) and programme delivery, through to student engagement opportunities, decolonisation is an integral part of reimagining our support for teaching and learning.
Procedures and Process
Decolonising at Lincoln aims to be an inclusive process, taking everyone along on a transformative journey.
That means reviewing our processes and procedures outside of curriculum and pedagogy to include colleagues in professional services.
HR Practice
Decolonisation has become an important global debate in libraries and archives, and is stimulating librarians, archivists, and library users to question existing policy and practice, and see their collections in a new light.
Library Resources
The University supports the Reimagining Lincolnshire project which seeks to uncover hidden and neglected stories, to showcase those whose contributions to the county of Lincolnshire, country, and internationally have largely been forgotten.
External Community
To find out more about the Decolonisation at Lincoln project and the work we are undertaking, please contact us at decolonisation@lincoln.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studentfuturesmanifesto:
The Student Futures Manifesto aims to create a set of actions and commitments to enhance the student experience at the University of Lincoln.
The project has built upon the work of the UPP Student Futures Commission, which identified a baseline of students who had low confidence, who were potentially behind in academic progress, and had increased anxiety and a loss of social skills following the Covid-19 pandemic.
The Commission wanted to increase support for students, to help prepare them for successful careers.
The Commission argued for a move towards knowledge economy values being central in institutions, with environments that are built in partnership with students.
This practice emphasises the move towards physical and digital spaces, an environment that promotes learning over teaching, and fosters a model of co-creation, creating community, rather than surface level engagement.
The project outlined six key themes in which to strive for development.
The Student Futures Manifesto is guided by these themes to best support students and develop provision for the future.
The Manifesto aims to commit to the actions outlined in the final report and develop a communications strategy to champion the work done.
The University of Lincoln aims to deliver on these commitments within five years.
The project is now progressing into its second phase, and a new round of student consultants have been recruited to support the next steps.
In February 2022 the UPP Foundation Student Futures Commission launched the New Student Futures Manifesto (SFM).
This manifesto aims to connect universities and the Student Futures Commission as joint partners in developing support offered to their students, to build students' sense of belonging following the Covid-19 pandemic.
Based upon six key themes, the manifesto is a commitment to enhance and create a series of support mechanisms with the aim of making positive contributions to the student experience.
The manifesto commitment is student led and ‘owned’, from start to finish, and is firmly established as a collaborative process, supplementing the University's partnership approaches with student engagement.
Student Futures Commission Website
Our Phase One Student Consultants:
Two student consultants were recruited to champion and lead the Student Futures Manifesto project at the University of Lincoln into its second phase.
Both students interviewed for their specialised theme and showed a passion for bringing improvements to student life and academic progress.
I'm Shukria, a first-year medical student and a student consultant focused on improving access to higher education and increasing opportunities for current Lincoln students.
I’m Allison, a postgraduate taught student at the University of Lincoln enrolled in an Agri-food Technology programme.
I'm particularly passionate about supporting our international student community.
Each of our student consultants, paired with an academic member of staff in their field, developed key questions to target their insight into their theme which created the Student Futures Survey.
The survey collected data, gathered from the student population, and informed focus groups which could then further explore the themes and target areas for development to support the project's aims.
A Student Futures Manifesto oversight group was also set up to guide and oversee the student consultants.
This group included the Dean of the Lincoln Academy of Learning and Teaching (LALT), with representation from the Students' Union, student consultants, and staff mentors.
Working with my student consultant gave me greater insight into the student experience and allowed me to see and appreciate how a student views the way in which we promote support services across the University.
Jacqueline Drury
Student Mentor and Director of Student Services
Our student consultants have provided a range of recommendations for each of the themes identified by the work of the UPP Foundation.
These recommendations were informed by the data collected during the project, and provide guidance on where our student population want the University to commit to targeted development.
These developments should empower the values of community, ensure digital learning enables wellbeing and social development, and embody the knowledge economy.
For each of the overarching themes, the commitments and actions are proposed.
You can now download and read the full report on the final recommendation of the project.
The next steps are for task and finish groups to be created to progress with actions and operationalise the findings of the project.
To create a series of microcredential programmes to allow prospective and incoming students to build up their understanding of the expected knowledge, identify gaps in this knowledge, and potentially allow academic staff to establish a baseline of academic knowledge of a cohort.
To provide a pair of centralised ‘hubs’ to prepare for commencing university study.
These hubs would be prominent on the University's website with links to student life, course pages, students’ union, online prospectus, and official University social media accounts.
To provide further information, in the form of a booklet for each course/School containing further information regarding course structure, nature of study, and assessments.
These would ideally be a physical document with an online version available.
Provide an opportunity within Welcome Week for students to meet and informally chat with students about their own experiences so that students have another way to ask questions.
Ensure that resources provided during Welcome Week are accessible all year round, so students are able to appropriately access the resource they need easily.
Students should complete a project within their first week in the form of a scavenger hunt, which would help them orientate themselves around the University and provide them with necessary knowledge about what support is available.
To reinstate self-certification for extensions in the 2023/24 academic year.
This would support students in need of additional time due to mental health conditions and concerns.
Channels of communication need to be developed when advertising services or supporting students who have reached out for help.
Students need to be made more aware of the services available to them as they start their university experience in their first year of study.
All new students during Welcome Week need to be made aware of the support offered by the Wellbeing Centre and how to contact them.
The flipped classroom is an instructional approach that typically involves students engaging with pre-recorded lectures or materials before the class session, allowing for more interactive and collaborative activities during in-person class time.
It encourages active learning, student engagement, and peer-to-peer interaction.
It is also key to ensure students are well-informed about the available teaching methods and their benefits, and it is recommended to improve communication and resources regarding teaching approaches.
Enhance information provision to improve the clarity and depth of information provided to prospective students during the decision-making process, particularly regarding teaching methods, expectations, and make the learning curve a bit easier.
To address the desire for more practical sessions, The University of Lincoln should focus on integrating hands-on experiences and real-world applications into learning experience.
This can include incorporating case studies, simulations, or collaborative projects.
This has been a key area that was highlighted in the focus group, and evident with the low number of responses to the survey.
There is uncertainty as to why student engagement and participation is low when opportunities are given.
Suggested solutions could be through the use of incentives to encourage participation.
Student-led groups within the curriculum to enable collaboration between staff and students and truly ensure learning has a student-focused approach, supporting students to achieve the best outcomes.
Based on the survey results and comments made in the focus group, students are either not aware of opportunities or feel as though they are unable to participate.
A recommendation to provide more exposure of these within the curriculum is to have College-specific announcements released monthly, so that students are aware of what is available.
Training opportunities to be offered to students alongside their degree to support them in their future careers.
This could include academic skill support such AWS training for business students, Excel, and Word certificates.
Non-academic skills could include first aid training, British Sign Language, formal writing, or team-working and confidence building courses.
To integrate careers and employability further into teaching with courses and modules to take career readiness seriously and better prepare their students for the future.
Ensure that students know what activities and services are offered and how they can get access to them.
This could include featuring these events within student timetables.
Actions for Phase Two continue to proactively respond to some of the challenges students may face in their student experience.
They focus on building a sense of belonging and community, and enhancing the student journey.
Two student consultants have been recruited to support the second phase of the project.
These students will be:
Our student consultants will be supported by a team of staff mentors.
The staff mentor team for Phase Two is made up of Jacqueline Mayer (Head of Student Services and Deputy Academic Registrar), Harpaul Dhindsa (Head of the Careers and Employability Team), and Claire Randerson (Dean of International and Postgraduate Taught students).
Find out more about the experiences of our Student Consultants and Staff Mentors, including what they learned from their experiences while collaborating on the project.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/abouttheuniversity/governance/universitypolicies/studentcharter:
This includes the University’s commitment to delivering a high-quality learning experience to all of our students.
Whether you are an undergraduate or postgraduate student, home or international, we welcome, listen to, and respond to your views and opinions.
In turn, the Charter captures your contribution to your own university experience and journey through Higher Education.
Jointly created by the University and the Students’ Union, the Charter is reviewed every year to reflect the developments and changes of the University.
We hope that this is a valuable document for referral at all stages of your university education.
This Charter sets out how the University of Lincoln is committed to delivering a high-quality student experience that not only meets, but hopefully exceeds your expectations, enabling you to realise your hopes, aspirations, and ambitions.
Vice Chancellor of the University of Lincoln
We actively work to create a community where, whoever you are, and wherever you come from, you are part of our University.
Founded on the values of our One Community , the Charter reflects who we are and helps us to ensure that in everything we do, we always have our students’ best interests at heart.
Through our One Community, we work together to support both the University’s and the Students’ Union’s strategic plans .
This includes creating a net-zero university, with sustainability reflected both in our campus and culture.
The Students’ Union is extremely proud to form part of the Student Charter.
Our commitment will always be to make sure that the student experience in Lincoln is the best it can be.
We build communities for students to be a part of, and offer professional support and advice when students need it.
Through our team of elected student officers, we pledge to listen to students on the issues that matter to them most, and take action on their behalf.
University of Lincoln Students' Union
Lincoln Students' Union has a team of elected Student Leaders who aim to ensure that your student voice is heard.
They are here to make sure all students feel represented on campus.
Lead Officer, Student Communities Officer
Student Representation Officer
Student Support and Development Officer
As part of the Charter, the University, our students, and the Students' Union have made a number of commitments, which are detailed below.
We want to keep you up to date on all the support, events, benefits, and other useful information that you can make use of to create the best university experience.
Keep an eye out for these key channels:
The Students’ Union is a democratically run, charity organisation who empower students to fulfil their potential through a community that innovatively represents, supports, and creates opportunities.
An elected team of full and part-time student representatives work alongside a professional staff team to deliver opportunities, events, and initiatives to improve student experience.
At all levels of decision-making within the Students’ Union, there is a mechanism for the student voice to be heard.
When you graduate, you become part of our global alumni community.
We are committed to providing you with a wide range of support and benefits , even once you have graduated.
We recognise that the value of your award depends on the reputation and esteem of the University, so we will continue to strive to be a reputable and respected institution.
The University offers a host of support services from mental health and expert advice in money matters, to guidance in academic writing and preparing for your ﬁrst graduate job interview.
More information is available on our dedicated Support at Lincoln page, or the team can be contacted using the telephone number: +44 (0)1522 837080.
Read more on our Equality of Opportunity page.
Information on the University Regulations and Policies, including the Student Complaints Procedure, Personal Tutor Policy, Extenuating Circumstances etc.
can be found on our University Policies page.
Information on the support available to International Students, including how to apply, virtual events, accommodation, and live chats with current students can be found on the International Students page.
Information on the support provided by the Careers and Employability team can be found on the dedicated Careers and Employability pages .
Information on the support provided by the Libraries and Learning Skills team can be found on the Libraries and Learning Skills page.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/abouttheuniversity/governance/auditcommittee:
The Board of Governors has established a Committee of the Board called the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee and its Chair shall be appointed by the Board of Governors, from among its own members, and must consist of members with no executive responsibility for the management of the University.
There shall be no fewer than three members.
The Chair of the Board of Governors should not be a member of the Committee.
Members should not have significant interests in the University.
A quorum shall be 50% of the total membership plus one member.
The Committee currently has five members, therefore a quorum will be three members.
At least one member should have recent relevant experience in finance, accounting or auditing.
The Committee may, if it considers it necessary or desirable, co-opt members from outside the Board of Governors with particular expertise.
Members of the Committee should not also be members of the Finance Committee (or equivalent where such a committee is established by the Board of Governors).
Attendance at Meetings
The Vice Chancellor, Chief Finance Officer (or equivalent), and representatives of both the internal auditors and external auditors shall normally attend meetings where business relevant to them is to be discussed.
However, at least once a year the Committee should meet with the external and internal auditors without any officers present.
Where a member cannot attend a meeting, then they can submit any comments on reports to either the Clerk or Chair of the Committee in order that their comments can be raised.
Meetings shall normally be held four times each financial year.
The external auditors or internal audit engagement lead may request a meeting if they consider it necessary.
The Committee is authorised by the Board of Governors to investigate any activity within its terms of reference.
It is authorised to seek any information it requires from any employee, and all employees are directed to co-operate with any request made by the Committee.
The Committee is authorised by the Board of Governors to obtain outside legal or other independent professional advice and to secure the attendance of non-members with relevant experience and expertise if it considers this necessary, normally in consultation with the Vice Chancellor and/or Chair of the Board of Governors.
However, it may not incur direct expenditure in this respect in excess of £50,000 without the prior approval of the Board of Governors.
The Audit Committee will review the audit aspects of the draft annual financial statements.
These aspects will include the external audit opinion, the statement of members’ responsibilities, the statement of internal control and any relevant issue raised in the external auditors’ management letter.
The Committee should, where appropriate, confirm with the internal and external auditors that the effectiveness of the internal control system has been reviewed, and comment on this in its annual report to the Board of Governors.
The Audit Committee and its members are subject to the Standing Orders of the Board of Governors in respect of all aspects of the committee’s operation.
The Audit Committee will review its Terms of Reference at least every four years.
Amendment of the Terms of Reference requires approval of the Board of Governors.
The duties of the Committee shall be to:
(a) advise the Board of Governors on the appointment of the external auditors, the audit fee, the provision of any non-audit services by the external auditors, and any questions of resignation or dismissal of the external auditors
(b) ensure the independence and objectivity of the external auditors
(c) discuss with the external auditors, before the audit begins, the nature and scope of the audit
(d) discuss with the external auditors problems and reservations arising from the interim and final audits, including a review of the External Audit Report, incorporating management responses, and any other matters the external auditors may wish to discuss (in the absence of management where necessary)
(e) consider and advise the Board of Governors on the appointment and terms of engagement of the internal audit service (and the internal audit engagement lead if applicable), the audit fee, the provision of any non-audit services by the internal auditors, and any questions of resignation or dismissal of the internal auditors
(f) review the internal auditors’ audit risk assessment, strategy and programme and approve the annual programme of work on behalf of the Board of Governors; consider major findings of internal audit investigations and management’s response; and promote co-ordination between the internal and external auditors.
The Committee will ensure that the resources made available for internal audit are sufficient to meet the institution’s needs (or make a recommendation to the Board of Governors as appropriate)
(g) keep under review the effectiveness of the risk management, control and governance arrangements, and in particular review the external auditors’ management letter, the internal auditors’ annual report, and management responses
(h) monitor the implementation of agreed audit-based recommendations, from whatever source
(i) ensure that all significant losses have been properly investigated and that the internal and external auditors, and where appropriate the funding council’s accounting officer, have been informed
(j) oversee the University’s policy on fraud and irregularity, including being notified of any action taken under that policy
(k) on behalf of the Board of Governors, periodically consider the University’s Whistleblowing (Public Interest Disclosure) Policy, including being notified of any action taken under that policy, and as appropriate recommend revisions to the Board
(l) satisfy itself that suitable arrangements are in place to promote economy, efficiency and effectiveness
(m) satisfy itself as to the effectiveness of the University’s arrangements for the management and quality assurance of data submitted to the Higher Education Statistics Agency, Student Loans Company, Office for Students and other funding or regulatory bodies
(n) receive any relevant reports from the National Audit Office (NAO) and its equivalents in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, the funding councils and other organisations
(o) monitor annually the performance and effectiveness of the external and internal auditors, including any matters affecting their objectivity, and make recommendations to the Board of Governors concerning their reappointment, where appropriate
(p) ensure that contracts for externally provided audit services are subject to competitive tender at least every five years, in accordance with and subject to procurement rules
(q) ensure outgoing external or internal auditors are able to report their work at an appropriate meeting of the Audit Committee
(r) consider elements of the annual financial statements in the presence of the external auditors, including the auditors’ formal opinion, the statement of members’ responsibilities and the statement of internal control, in accordance with the funding councils’ accounts directions
(s) on behalf of the Board of Governors, scrutinise the detail of the content and format of the draft financial statements and, as appropriate, raise any queries with the Executive prior to their presentation to the Board
(t) in the event of the merger or dissolution of the University, ensure that the necessary actions are completed, including arranging for a final set of financial statements to be completed and signed.
The minutes (or a report) of meetings of the Audit Committee will be circulated to all members of the Board of Governors.
The Committee will prepare an annual report covering the University’s financial year and any significant issues up to the date of preparing the report.
The report will be addressed to the Board of Governors and Vice Chancellor, and will summarise the activity for the year.
It will give the Committee’s opinion of the adequacy and effectiveness of the University’s arrangements for the following:
This opinion should be based on the information presented to the Committee.
The Audit Committee annual report should normally be submitted to the Board of Governors before the members’ responsibility statement in the annual financial statements is signed.
The Audit Committee will undertake a form of self-assessment of its effectiveness on an annual basis (normally at its July meetings).
Every three years the Committee will consider utilising external input in assessing its effectiveness.
A member of the Governance Team will undertake the role of Officer to this Committee.
(The Audit Committee Terms of Reference was approved on 27 March 2025)
Return to the list of Committees

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/abouttheuniversity/governance/apprenticeshipsandskillsoversightgroup:
The Board of Governors has established a Sub-Group of the Board called the Apprenticeships and Skills Oversight Group.
On behalf of the Board of Governors, the Apprenticeships and Skills Oversight Group provides Board level oversight of the University’s apprenticeships provision.
The Apprenticeships and Skills Oversight Group membership shall be appointed by the Board of Governors and must consist of members with no executive responsibility for the management of the University.
The membership of the Group may comprise of a combination of independent and co- opted members.
The Staff and Student Governors will be members of the Group.
The maximum membership of the Group shall be six members.
A quorum shall be 50% of the total appointed membership, plus one member.
Attendance of members is mandatory.
Where a member cannot attend a meeting, they must arrange to send a Deputy and inform the Officer accordingly.
The Dean for Executive Education and Skills (and Nominated Ofsted Lead), Heads of
School and representatives from each area of provision covered within the scope of Ofsted, the Education and Skills Funding Agency and Office for Students shall be invited to attend meetings of the Group.
Representatives from other departments e.g.
planning, will be invited if appropriate.
Meetings will be scheduled three times each academic year typically in November, March, and July.
The Group is authorised by the Board of Governors to investigate any activity within its duties.
It is authorised to seek any such information it requires from any employee, and all employees are directed to co-operate with any request made by the Group.
The Group and its members are subject to the Standing Orders of the Board of Governors in respect of all aspects of the Group’s operation.
The Group will review its Terms of Reference at least every four years.
The Apprenticeships and Skills Oversight Group fulfils its role primarily by receiving and considering reports at a strategic level relating to all aspects of the University's apprenticeships provision, including the quality of the learner and employer experience, the outcomes for learners, and the overall financial management and sustainability; and reporting back to the Board of Governors as appropriate.
The duties of the Group shall be to:
Receive and consider reports relating to the University's compliance with its statutory responsibilities relating to the apprenticeships and adult skills provision within inspection scope including, but not limited to:
Receive and consider the Annual Self-Assessment Report (SAR) and associated Quality Improvement Plan (QIP) on behalf of the Board of Governors.
Receive and consider reports relating to the institutional governance structure for the University’s apprenticeships and skills provision in the context of Ofsted, Education and Skills Funding Agency and Office for Students requirements.
Review the strategic plan for apprenticeships and skills provision and monitor progress against its objectives.
E.
Receive assurance that the University complies with the requirements of the Register of Apprenticeship Training Providers and Register of End Point Assessment Organisations (for integrated degree apprenticeship programmes).
The minutes of meetings of the Group will be circulated to all members of the Board of Governors.
A systematic evaluation will take place at the end of each academic year aimed at assessing the efficiency and impact of the group in achieving its objectives.
This will involve collecting and analysing data to provide insights for improvements to assist attendees with decision making, accountability, and continuous development activities.
A member of the Governance Team will undertake the role of Officer to this Group.
(The Apprenticeship and Skills Oversight Group Terms of Reference was approved on 27 March 2025)

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/abouttheuniversity/governance/financeinfrastructureandinvestmentcommittee:
The Board of Governors has established a Committee of the Board called the Finance, Infrastructure and Investment Committee.
The Finance, Infrastructure, and Investment Committee provides the Board with assurance on potential significant and strategic investment decisions.
It provides oversight of delivery of the financial, estates and digital infrastructure objectives of the University Strategy.
The Finance, Infrastructure and Investment Committee and its Chair shall be appointed by the Board of Governors.
The Committee membership shall comprise of:
At least one member should have recent relevant experience in finance and/or accounting.
A quorum:
Members of the Committee should not also be members of the Audit Committee.
Attendance of Officers
The Chief Operating Officer, Chief Finance Officer, Director of Estates and Director of Planning and Strategy (or their equivalents) shall normally attend meetings of the Committee.
Additional Officers of the University, members of the Board of Governors and relevant University of Lincoln Students’ Union colleagues may attend the Committee according to the needs of its business, at the discretion of the Chair.
The Committee shall normally meet formally four times each financial year, but it is expected the Committee shall meet ad hoc to consider relevant significant or strategic proposals as they develop.
The Finance, Infrastructure and Investment Committee is authorised by the Board of Governors to scrutinise proposed expenditure, such as business change, capital and digitalisation projects, property and other investment decisions which are due subsequent Board of Governors approval, as per the limits outlined in the Financial Regulations.
The duties of the Committee shall be:
(a) to review and recommend the University's annual budget for Board approval;
(b) to review and recommend the University’s five-year financial plans for Board approval;
(c) to scrutinise the University estate and digitalisation project pipeline, reviewing the financial evaluation of significant and strategic projects and make recommendations to the Board of Governors as appropriate;
(d) to review and recommend any appropriate funding arrangements to underpin financial sustainability (i.e.
borrowing, the appointment of bankers or other financial advisors) to the Board of Governors;
(e) to review and recommend the University's Treasury Management Policy for Board of Governors approval;
(f) to review requests for investment funds for subsidiaries and spin-out companies and make recommendation for Board of Governors approval as appropriate;
(g) to monitor the exploitation of the University’s intellectual property;
(h) to monitor the University’s fundraising activities, including its use of donated funds and endowments via annual report on fundraising.
The minutes of meetings of the Finance, Infrastructure and Investment Committee will be circulated to all members of the Board of Governors and recommendations of the Committee will be reported to the next meeting of the Board.
At all meetings, the minutes of the previous meeting and a report on actions from the previous meeting/matters arising will be received.
Members will be asked whether they have any declarations of interest to make, and members will consider whether there are any significant issues of interest requiring future consideration by the Committee under a horizon scanning discussion.
October:
Terms of Reference, Membership and Business Plan
Forecast YE Position
Treasury Review and Strategy
Review of Digital Project Pipeline
Review of Estates Project Pipeline
November:
Five-Year Financial models and OfS Financial Return
Update on Forecast 23/24 YE Position (in line with External Audit)
Annual Report on Fundraising
Annual Report on Commercialisation/IP Exploitation/EIG
Review of Digital Project Pipeline (by exception)
Review of Estates Project Pipeline (by exception)
February:
Budget-Setting Principles
Mid-Year Forecast
May:
Budget and Five-Year Forecast (pre-Board approval)
Effectiveness Review
(The Finance, Infrastructure and Investment Committee Terms of Reference was approved on 27 March 2025)

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/abouttheuniversity/governance/universityhonourscommittee:
The Board of Governors has established a Sub-Committee of the Board called the University Honours Committee.
The role of the Honours Committee is to ensure, on behalf of the Board of Governors, that the Board has oversight of the honorary awards framework and process.
Honorary awards are made jointly in the name of the Academic Board and the Board of Governors.
The Committee is quorate if at least three members are present, with at least one from each aforementioned senior represented body.
The following invites will attend the meetings of the Committee:
Meetings will be scheduled twice each academic year typically in January and July.
The Committee is authorised by the Board of Governors to investigate any activity within its duties.
It is authorised to seek any such information it requires from any employee, and all employees are directed to co-operate with any request made by the Committee.
The Committee and its members are subject to the Standing Orders of the Board of Governors in respect of all aspects of the Committee’s operation.
The Honours Committee has the following responsibilities:
The minutes of meetings of the Committee will be circulated to all members of the Board of Governors.
(The University Honours Committee Terms of Reference was approved on 27 March 2025)

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/abouttheuniversity/governance/nominationscommittee:
The Board of Governors has established a Sub-Committee of the Board called the Nominations Committee.
The role of the Nominations Committee is to ensure, on behalf of the Board of Governors, that the Board has sufficient skills, knowledge and independence to enable it to discharge it responsibilities.
A quorum shall be 50% of the total appointed membership, plus one member, of which at least one of whom must be an independent member of the Board.
The Head of Legal and Compliance Services/Secretary to the Board shall be invited to attend meetings of the Group.
Meetings will be scheduled three times each academic year typically in October, March, and May.
The Nominations Committee has the following responsibilities:
The minutes of meetings of the Sub-Committee will be circulated to all members of the Board of Governors.
(The Nominations Committee Terms of Reference was approved on 23 January 2025)

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/abouttheuniversity/governance/remunerationcommittee:
The Remuneration Committee is a sub-committee of the Board of Governors with delegated authority to determine the remunerated terms of employment for the Vice Chancellor and the Senior Leadership Team.
(a) To determine the remuneration and reward packages, including but not limited to basic salary and pension arrangements and any other elements of reward as required, for the roles of Vice Chancellor and the Senior Leadership Team prior to appointment and subsequently throughout employment.
Giving due consideration to a variety of components including such items as gender and other equal pay matters related to this group.
(b) Review the performance of the Vice Chancellor and the Senior Leadership Team against set objectives determined by the Chair, for the Vice Chancellor and the Vice Chancellor for the Senior Leadership Team and determine annual performance-related pay awards for these individuals.
Reviews will be undertaken within a context of proportionality to the reward offered to other university colleagues.
(c) Consider proposals for severance payments to all employees earning in excess of £100,000, or where the total cost to the University of the payment, including compensatory pension fund payments, exceeds £100,000; and, where satisfied of the appropriateness, approve payments to individuals.
(d) Agree the expenses policy for the Vice Chancellor and the Senior Leadership Team; ensuring the policy is appropriate, fair and requiring expenses to be wholly associated with university business.
The policy subsequently to be operationalised by the Vice Chancellor in respect of the Senior Leadership Team through the management structure and the Chair of the Board of Governors in respect of the Vice Chancellor’s expenses.
(e) Consider and keep updated on senior staff remuneration guidance issued by relevant bodies such as the Office for Students (OfS) and the Committee of University Chairs (CUC).
(f) Maintain overall awareness of the significant general issues relating to the reward offering for all university staff, such as pensions.
Reporting any recommendations to the Board of Governors as appropriate.
(g) Ensure due regard, in the committees activities, to discharging the University’s equality, diversity and inclusion duties.
(h) Maintain awareness on external matters relative to remuneration and equality in the context of reward.
(i) To undertake other such duties as may be appropriate to assign to the committee by the Board.
(a) The Board of Governors shall appoint the committee Chair.
The Chair of the Board may also serve on the committee as an additional independent member but shall not be Chair of the committee.
(b) The committee shall comprise a minimum of three members, whom should be members of the Board of Governors or where co-opted are independent of the institution, and represent a diversity of knowledge of sector remuneration governance.
(c) Members of the committee shall be appointed by the Board of Governors, on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee and in consultation with the Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
(d) The Vice Chancellor will not be a member of the committee or involved in the discussions of the committee related to their performance or remuneration, however they may be invited to attend part of any meeting, as and when appropriate and necessary.
Invitations to attend committee meetings may also be extended to other colleagues such as the Chief People Officer or External Advisers as and when appropriate and necessary.
No attendee from the University staff shall be involved in any discussions as to their own remuneration, reward or compensation.
(e) Appointments to the committee shall be for a period of up to three years extendable by no more than an additional three-year period, provided independent members continue to be members of the Board of Governors.
(f) The University Secretary (or equivalent) shall attend meetings.
The quorum necessary for the transaction of business shall be three members of the committee.
In the absence of the Chair of the Committee one of the remaining members of the committee, with the exception of the Chair of the Board of Governors, may deputise.
The committee shall evaluate the performance, on the advice of the Chair of the Board of Governors, and any reward of the Vice Chancellor and on the advice of the Vice Chancellor the performance of and reward recommended of the Senior Leadership Team at one of these meetings annually (normally October).
(g) The Department of People, Performance and Culture will provide University data and market intelligence as required for the committee to consider.
This will include an oversight of both benchmarking and fair pay.
(h) The Chair of the committee shall provide an annual remuneration report to the Board of Governors on its proceedings, decisions and any recommendations beyond its remit.
(i) In the interests of transparency the Remuneration Committee will also publish the annual remuneration report on the external University of Lincoln webpages.
Meetings will normally be held three times annually.
An Officer will be provided by the Governance team.
The Officer will attend meetings, take minutes (notes of key discussions, actions and decisions), and send the draft minutes to the Chair for approval normally within 5 working days.
Once the Chair has approved the draft minutes, the Officer will circulate unconfirmed minutes to members approx.
a week following the meeting.
The agenda and supporting papers will be sent to the committee no later than five business days before the date of the meeting.
The Officer will send a paper call out to members of the committee approx.
three weeks prior to the meeting, and deadline for papers will usually be two weeks prior to the meeting.
The committee will have an action log to monitor actions effectively.
Members/action owners will be expected to progress and provide status updates on their actions associated with the business of the committee (tracked via the Workplan) throughout its operation.
It is the responsibility of all to ensure equality impact is understood and monitored and that the consequences of decisions and actions are fair and equitable.
The principles and terms outlined are consistent with the Higher Education Senior Staff Remuneration code, as determined and published by the CUC, Committee of University Chairs, November 2021.
The Committee’s terms of reference will be reviewed and revised as appropriate, annually.
(The Remuneration Committee Terms of Reference was approved on 27 March 2025)

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/strategicplan/wecollaborate:
Lincoln is known for its strong focus on, and pioneering approach to collaboration: from working with students to co-create learning environments and student experiences, to working cooperatively with wider communities in our research.
Partnership working with other organisations, commerce, and industry, both nationally and internationally, will be key to our future success in growing the economic, social, and cultural life of the city, county, and wider region.
We will create a purposeful community that is committed to making a positive difference.
Building a diverse and inclusive culture where we attract, develop, and retain the best people.
Engaging meaningfully with our students, both within and beyond the curriculum, to ensure an inclusive, diverse, and accessible educational experience.
Creating a caring and collaborative environment for staff and students that is also stimulating, challenging, and ambitious.
Our teaching, research and knowledge exchange will be permeable, removing barriers to interaction between disciplines, institutions, and people across the world.
Addressing global challenges through regional research and knowledge exchange that employs co-creative, “living laboratory” approaches.
Flexible delivery of co-developed, research-informed, and industrially relevant curricula that is able to highlight the interconnectivity between work and learning opportunities.
Forging key strategic partnerships, nationally and internationally, that significantly enhance our teaching and research.
We will grow a collaborative network of civically engaged organisations that work to address regional inequalities.
Working in collaboration with our partners to raise the educational ambition and attainment of those who live and work in the region.
Delivering knowledge, capabilities, and skills into those industries and organisations that are essential to the region’s prosperity.
Expanding the University’s global reach, by collaborating with others to address local challenges that have global impact.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/strategicplan/wechallenge:
We have a key role to play in thought leadership, leading-edge research, and collaboration with business and commerce.
Through our teaching and learning, we need to prepare our students to be challenged, and to provide them the confidence and skills to challenge others in an ever-changing global society.
Through addressing regional issues that resonate with global challenges, our research needs to push the frontiers of knowledge and practice.
We will develop our students into highly skilled and employable graduates, and adaptable, socially responsible citizens.
Exposing students to a wide variety of experiences and opportunities that develops them into confident and creative graduates, hungry for knowledge, and unafraid of questioning assumptions.
Ensuring that our curriculum is up to date and industry relevant, preparing our students with the skills they need to meet the challenges of an increasingly global and digital world, and to work for others or create their own businesses.
Ensuring that our delivery mechanisms are sufficiently flexible and agile to meet the diverse needs of students, employers, and other stakeholders.
We will focus on and invest in impactful, challenge-led research, and knowledge exchange that addresses regionally relevant and internationally significant priorities.
Establishing world-leading excellence across all our areas of research, including regionally relevant areas such a Agri-food Technology, Rural and Coastal Health, and History.
Increasing and diversifying our research funding to increase critical mass and achieve greater impact.
Supporting regional and global development by addressing UN Sustainable Development Goals and the Greater Lincolnshire LEP Local Industrial Strategy.
We will create an environment in which we can challenge each other, strive for excellence, and embrace difference.
Setting clear expectations and developing clear pathways for our staff so that they are able to achieve their full potential in order to ensure the University meets its challenges and the high expectations demanded by ourselves and our partners.
Encouraging purposeful conversations that allow us to challenge, inspire, and develop each other.
Embracing and embedding new working practices and promoting and encouraging equality and diversity.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/strategicplan/wetransform:
Through teaching and learning, research and knowledge exchange, we will enhance and enrich and better the lives of our students, staff, city, and communities across the world.
As we go on this journey, we must also transform our own outlooks and working practices, expanding our horizons and embracing new digital technologies.
We will be people-centred, transforming the lives of those who learn, work, and engage with us.
Enhancing the opportunities, experiences, and outcomes of our students regardless of their background.
Creating an intellectually stimulating environment where our staff are empowered to be ambitious and successful.
Creating an ethos of entrepreneurship in our students and staff.
We will transform society through impactful and relevant teaching, research, and knowledge exchange that address both regional and global challenges.
Engaging in innovative, cross-disciplinary, and research-informed teaching that changes the way our students think.
Delivering research that has relevance and impact regionally and across the globe.
Sharing knowledge and co-creating opportunities that will help businesses to grow and transform.
Through our regionally-embedded civic mission, we will transform the city, region, and wider world in which we operate.
Catalysing economic growth and investment in the city and region, working in collaboration with our partners to resolve inequalities and create pride in place.
Collaborating with students, partners, and the public to develop our reputation as a creative cultural powerhouse that enhances lives, communities, and economies.
Supporting our international partners and others to address their own priorities.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/strategicplan/implementation:
We are clear that everything we undertake must be:
- Done with Quality
- Efficiently Delivered
- Focused on Delivering Our Vision and Ambition
To enable this to happen the success of our strategy will be underpinned by nine supporting strategies.
Led by our Teaching and Student Experience and Research and Knowledge Exchange strategies that are our raison d’être, our other strategies will create the culture and infrastructure that is needed for the University to achieve its ambitions.
Our students are our partners and we will co-create meaningful, challenging, and life-enhancing educational experiences that empower them to grow into creative graduates with global, inclusive mindsets, a strong sense of personal and social responsibility, and the ability to thrive in an ever-changing world.
Read the Strategy
We will address global challenges that are grounded in regional priorities by adopting a permeable, challenge-led, impactful, co-created and partnership-based approach to research and knowledge exchange.
Through learning about and experiencing different cultures, perspectives, and organisations, we will promote a global mindset and cultural empathy among staff, students, and our wider community that will enable them to thrive in an international context.
Our digital strategy and roadmap are designed to empower students and staff to fulfil their potential, and to support the delivery of the University’s Strategic Plan by providing services that are simple, connected, and powered by insights.
People are central to our success.
They embody our university and realise our ambitions.
We will harness the benefits of an inclusive and diverse team of staff, embracing a high-performance culture where staff are supported and enabled to thrive and develop.
We are passionate about our civic mission.
We will shape and transform our city and region by catalysing economic growth and investment, working collaboratively with partners to develop educational opportunities, and supporting innovation through research and development.
Through our rich cultural assets, our vibrant programming, and our collaborative approach we will develop our reputation as a creative cultural powerhouse that transforms lives, communities, and economies throughout Greater Lincolnshire and beyond.
We will develop a vibrant campus that is working towards net zero that is both inclusive and accessible whilst ensuring a safe learning and working environment for our students, staff, and the wider community.
As we pursue our ambitions to grow and diversify, we will need to build financial resilience, sustainability, and flexibility through targeted investments and developing effective and collaborative partnerships.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/abouttheuniversity/sustainability/campus:
As a rapidly growing University with over 14,000 students and 1,500 staff, we know that our activities will have an impact on the environment.
This is why we’re working to reduce the negative impact of our operations, whilst also finding opportunities to make a positive impact.
In 2019/20, the University was directly responsible for 5753 tonnes of carbon emissions, a 34% reduction from our baseline year of 2009/10.
The most significant contributor to the University’s carbon footprint is the use of energy in our buildings.
In 2019/20, this accounted for 48% of our total carbon emissions (CO2e).
Our Sustainability team, based in the Estates Department, is working hard to reduce energy consumption and utilise our estate as a resource to improve biodiversity and support environmental sustainability projects.
This team supports the University to maintain the internationally recognised ISO14001 standard for Environmental Management, the ISO5001 standard for Energy Management, and the EcoCampus Platinum award.
Key achievements in 2021/22:
Approval of two new and ambitious carbon reduction targets: to reduce carbon emissions by 60 per cent by 2030 against a 2009/10 baseline and to achieve Net Zero carbon emissions by 2040 .
Commissioned a Heat Decarbonisation Study for Riseholme.
Supported the development of specifications for Lawress Hall (energy strategy) and Barbican (sustainability specification), including ongoing development of a net zero plan for Lawress Hall.
Continued to develop the Environment and Energy Management System, with a combined surveillance audit.
Developed and achieved sign off for a new Parking Policy aiming to reduce single-occupancy car travel.
Explored energy saving Opportunities with Digital Services, culminating in appointment of external consultant to develop plan for data centres to be more energy efficient.
Achievement of the Hedgehog Friendly Campus Gold Award.
Development of waste management in the Minerva Building, with introduction of food waste collection and trial of new bins with the aim to roll out in other catering outlets.
The Lincoln Medical School Building, completed in 2021, is the most sustainable building across the University's estate, featuring solar panels on the roof and front of the building.
It also features a 'living wall', consisting of 15 varieties of plants.
Living walls can help insulate buildings, aid biodiversity locally, and benefit the mental health of staff and students.
The landscaping around the building has been reseeded with grass seed and wildflowers, which, once established, will support our campus wildlife, including birds, bees, and small mammals such as hedgehogs.
The building has been extensively energy modelled to ensure that the equipment running the heating, cooling, and ventilation takes into account how our university buildings are used.
This includes seasonal changes such as term time teaching, maximising natural ventilation to reduce the requirement of mechanical ventilation.
Daylight dimming is also in place in many areas of the lighting across the building - when natural daylight levels are high enough, the lighting inside the building will adjust to suit or switch off altogether.
The building is also fully run on electricity as the grid is naturally being de-carbonised.
The building is extensively energy metered and our Estates team have support from a consultant for the next 3 years in monitoring the energy use in spaces and working with the building users to improve this where possible.
The University of Lincoln is split over three campuses; our Brayford Pool Campus in Lincoln, our Riseholme Campus just north of the city, and our Holbeach Campus in the south of the county.
Our Riseholme Campus is set in the countryside with grounds that have established woodland and wildlife.
There are a variety of green space specific projects ongoing at our city centre Brayford campus at present, including a kitchen garden, herb garden, urban bee garden, a hedgehog friendly campus campaign, the Joseph Banks Laboratories Wildflower Meadow, and the Observation Hive.
You can find out more about these spaces and the specific projects on our Estates website.
Mute swans are an important symbol of the city of Lincoln, dating back to the rebuilding of Lincoln Cathedral in 1185.
Historically, large juvenile groups would over-winter on the Brayford, but recent surveys suggest that these numbers are declining.
Many environmental factors may drive this apparent decline, such as a decreased food availability, aggression between swans for territory, or fishing lines or lead weights in the waterways.
In 2017 we started a programme of colour ringing swans on the waterways in and around Lincoln, funded by the University of Lincoln and with assistance from the Wildfowl and Wetlands Trust and the Yorkshire Swan and Wildlife Rescue Hospital.
We have now ringed over 200 swans in and around Lincoln and are starting to get some great data on resightings.
In 2020, we developed a community science project using a phone App to allow members of the public to register with the project and submit their swan sightings.
Explore Visit Lincoln's top tips for living eco-friendly and find out more about what the city of Lincoln and its businesses are doing to reduce their carbon footprint.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/jobopportunities/benefitsandwellbeing:
At the University of Lincoln, we see our colleagues as individuals, and we offer a range of benefits to help enrich your life and support your specific needs during your time with us.
We can help you with all aspects of your wellbeing, offering rewards and flexible ways of working that can sit more comfortably alongside your family life and other commitments.
We also offer generous annual leave packages, closure days, and parental leave.
Our lifestyle benefits include:
We make sure we recognise the exceptional contribution that our staff have made to University successes.
Personalised certificates are sent to colleagues upon completion of one of our UL Programmes, we present the specialist teaching excellence awards with honours at our graduation ceremonies, and colleagues have access to a host of eRecognition cards that they can send to their fellow colleagues to recognise when someone has gone that extra mile or by just making the university a nicer place to work.
Here at Lincoln, we offer a range of health and wellbeing benefits and activities.
These include on-site heart health checks and flu vaccinations.
The University also gets involved in community events such as the Lincoln 10k.
The University provides colleagues with access to a 24/7 Employee Assistance Programme, including specialist phone line support, interactive online sessions, and an app to monitor your own wellbeing at home.
We promote an open culture at Lincoln, prioritising mental health by increasing awareness, encouraging two-way conversations, and highlighting the support available at all stages of your employment.
Colleagues also have access to mental health first aiders for instant help and guidance.
Education is at the core of our provision, and we encourage our colleagues to develop and grow.
We have invested in our Brayford Pool Campus over the last two decades to create the best possible learning and teaching environment.
Our buildings feature modern office spaces, scientiﬁc laboratories, state-of-the-art clinical suites, workshops, specialist arts studios, a 450-seat theatre, advanced research facilities, and a range of lecture theatres.
You also have access to our on-campus sports centre and activity programmes to support your physical and mental health.
Community is central to the way that we work and support each other here at the University of Lincoln and we encourage connectivity through a range of groups and activities including leisure, environmental, volunteering, and social activities.
We also support each other and bring together new knowledge, skills, and approaches through our One Community values.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/jobopportunities/learninganddevelopment:
The University offers a range of training and development opportunities, designed to support your skills, knowledge, and behaviours, as well as enhancing your wider career aspirations.
Opportunities may include:
As well as offering in-person training opportunities covering key transferable skills and knowledge sharing, you also have access to a wide range of online learning modules and video tutorials through LinkedIn Learning, which can help you to further develop and strengthen these skills.
Whatever your new role here at the University of Lincoln, be it working in one of our professional services teams, as an academic, or as a researcher, we are here to help you achieve your full potential.
We are committed to developing your skills, knowledge, and behaviours to help build a diverse, inclusive, and high-performing culture, while promoting and supporting staff health and wellbeing.
Staff Development
Whether you are new to teaching, or just new to Lincoln, we can provide you with an overview of key teaching and learning information and signpost you to additional resources and support that you may need.
Read Our Guide
At Lincoln, we understand the importance of providing staff and students with the best possible environment for pursuing research that can support our communities, improve lives, and change the world.
Research Environment
Please note, some schemes will have a set of criteria/guidance/application process to support prioritising staff and associated budgets.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/alumnicommunity/newgraduates:
Welcome to our global alumni community, which is made up of more than 130,000 graduates from across more than 150 countries.
We have a dedicated Alumni team to help you stay in touch with the University and make the most of everything on offer.
This includes careers support, discounted membership of the University gym, and associate membership of the University library.
Please find below our welcome checklist for new graduates detailing information about your transition to the alumni community and steps you need to take, including reviewing your University accounts, exploring your exclusive alumni benefits, and more.
Upon completion of your course (not graduation), you will have a limited 3-month window to access your student account and associated Digital Services, such as Emails, Office 365, Blackboard, H: Drive Storage, and more.
Further information about steps you need to take to ensure any work you want to keep is not lost can be found below.
Review Your University Accounts
To keep in touch and stay up to date with university news, updates and events as alumni, make sure to regularly update your contact details with the alumni network.
You can update your details via the button below.
Don't forget you are eligible for bespoke Careers and Employability support for two years after graduation.
Make sure to use the service for any support you may need; you can book a one-to-one appointment , access online resources such as our CV review and mock interview tools, and explore graduate vacancies on CareerLinc, our job board.
Additionally, there are tailored workshops and career events available.
Access resources and learn more about how the Careers and Employability Team can assist you below.
Explore Careers Support
Don't forget there is a dedicated Alumni Team to help you get the most out of the benefits and services on offer to you and to help you keep in touch with the University of Lincoln.
Take a look at all the benefits and services on offer to you as alumni of the university.
If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to contact the team at alumni@lincoln.ac.uk.
View Your Alumni Benefits
If you haven't already created an account, register on LinkedIn, ensure you update your profile and connect with the University to stay in touch and expand your professional networks.
Connect With Us on LinkedIn
You may be contacted by the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA) 15 months after completing your studies as part of the Graduate Outcomes Survey.
By taking part you’ll be joining over 700,000 fellow graduates to make your voice heard.
It gives you the power to influence the future of higher education.
Find Out More About the Survey
Click below to go to our frequently asked questions about the alumni community.
If you need any assistance don't hesitate to contact your dedicated Alumni Team at alumni@lincoln.ac.uk.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/alumnicommunity/alumnifaqs:
Please find below some answers to our frequently asked questions about the alumni community.
We hope that you find the answers you are looking for, but if you need any assistance don't hesitate to contact your dedicated Alumni Team who will be happy to assist.
Contact the Alumni Team
If you are attending our September 2024 Graduation Ceremonies, you should receive your certificate during your ceremony.
For those students who are not able to attend, your certificate and transcript will be posted to the permanent address which is recorded on your One Uni record.
For students who complete their studies after the deadline for conferment at our September 2024 ceremonies, your certificate and transcript should be posted out to you in due course.
You must therefore ensure that these details are accurate ahead of us sending your certificate to ensure safe postage.
You can update your details in the “My Details” area of your One Uni account .
Please ensure that your permanent address, email address and phone number are up to date.
If your address details are incorrect at the point of posting, and your certificate is returned to us, there may be a charge for redelivery to your new address.
If you have not received your graduation certificate, please contact the Alumni Team at alumni@lincoln.ac.uk in the first instance.
If the team is unable to advise on your case, they will pass your email on to the certificates team.
Please include your full name, student ID, and the correct postal address in your email.
Replacement certificates can only be issued if your original certificate has been lost or damaged.
The University is unable to issue duplicate copies.
You can order a replacement certificate below.
Order a Replacement Certificate .
Your University transcript supplements your University certificate by providing a breakdown of the modules you studied, the marks and credits you achieved, and the degree date and classification.
You can request a copy of your transcript .
For more information see our Order a Certificate page .
A confirmation of award letter can be requested to confirm the dates you attended your University programme and the award you achieved.
You can request a confirmation of award letter .
If you require an academic reference, please get in touch with the Alumni Team at alumni@lincoln.ac.uk who will be able to advise the best way to request this.
Find out more about access to your University accounts .
If you have any questions at all, please contact the Digital Services team at dt@lincoln.ac.uk .
As a recent graduate of the University of Lincoln, you can access support with career planning, development, and applications, for up to two years after you finish your studies.
Further details of this support and additional support for alumni further into their careers can be found on the alumni careers page or you can get in touch with the Careers and Employability Team at careers@lincoln.ac.uk .
The Alumni Network is a global community of over 130,000 University of Lincoln alumni and we have a dedicated Alumni Team who are on hand to support you.
Please see our main alumni page for full information about the benefits and services on offer to you as alumni of the University.
If you have any questions at all, please don't hesitate to get in touch with us at alumni@lincoln.ac.uk .
When you complete your award, you student record is transferred to the Alumni Team who then create your alumni record.
After graduation, you should receive a formal welcome to the Alumni Network via email with more information.
You can register and update your details held on your alumni record via the button below.
Register and Update Your Details
When you graduate, you remain a valued part of the university community.
As alumni, you have a unique insight into what is it like to be part of the University of Lincoln and you can continue to support us by registering to become an Alumni Ambassador or by sharing your story.
To find out more about how you can support us, please see our Get Involved page.
You can also support us by donating to one of our campaigns or sharing details of our fundraising with your networks.
Please do keep us up to date with your achievements and successes as we always love to hear from you!
Yes, we have an Alumni LinkedIn Group which you can join in order to stay in touch with the University and fellow graduates.
We hope that it is a place that you can expand your professional network and find opportunities being advertised by other alumni in the group.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/alumnicommunity/alumnicareers:
The University of Lincoln is here to provide careers support to all of our alumni.
The Careers and Employability Team can provide more in-depth and bespoke careers support up to two years after graduation more information on resources can be found below.
Other vacancies and opportunities relevant to alumni who graduated more than two years ago are hosted on our jobs board further down this page, in addition to information about opportunities both at the University of Lincoln and with Lincolnshire-based employers.
The Student Enterprise Team can also offer support to alumni who are wishing to start their own business or become a freelancer, find out more on the Student Enterprise webpage.
Graduates can access bespoke careers support and resources provided by the Careers and Employability Team to strengthen their applications and career confidence for up to two years after graduation.
To find the right support for you, take a look some of the options below or visit the Careers and Employability website for full resources.
The Careers and Employability Team run a range of events, workshops, and careers fairs to support all aspects of your career.
Meet employers, explore career paths and opportunities, and better understand the recruitment process!
See Careers Events
For support with career planning, development, and applications, as well as access to appointments for part-time work, placements, and global opportunities, you’ll be able to find the right option for you on the Careers & Employability website.
Find the Right Support
CareerLinc, our job board exclusive to University of Lincoln graduates, advertises numerous local, national, and international roles.
For support accessing CareerLinc, please email careers@lincoln.ac.uk.
Access CareerLinc
Contact the Careers and Employability Team
Please find below details of current vacancies, volunteer, and work experience opportunities shared with us by employers and companies looking for University of Lincoln alumni who graduated more than two years ago.
Ever thought about becoming a school governor and supporting education for children in your local community?
Our charity partner Governors for Schools helps volunteers with diverse skills and backgrounds get into governance and develop their professional skills by placing them as governors and trustees on school and academy boards.
To find out more and submit your application, please visit the Governors for Schools website .
Here at the University of Lincoln, we aim to provide a vibrant community of staff and students, where all of us can share new knowledge, skills, ideas, and approaches.
We offer a range of exciting career opportunities, with competitive salaries, generous benefits packages, training and development programmes, and health and wellbeing support, giving you the chance to reach your full potential.
You can sign up to our free Jobs by Email service, which will alert you to any vacancies in the future.
If you would like to advertise any job opportunities, vacancies and placements at your place of work or your own business, please get in touch.
>Please note personal data is processed in accordance with the University's Alumni, Donors and Supporters Privacy Notice .

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/alumnicommunity/events:
As a member of the alumni community, you will receive special invitations to events such as networking opportunities, reunions, receptions, exhibition openings, and guest lectures.
You are also able to attend a wide range events across the institution such as public lectures, business support workshops, careers events, and productions run by the Lincoln Arts Centre.
For Alumni
Details of upcoming alumni-specific events will be posted below.
In the meantime, please take a look at the other University wide events that you can attend as alumni.
To ensure you receive information about these kinds of events, update your details with the Alumni Network.
Take a look at the wide range of events taking place across the institution that our alumni can attend.
From careers and business incubation workshops to networking, reunion events, and academic lectures.
Graduates can attend a range of events run by the Student Enterprise Team for aspiring business founders and freelancers for up to three years post graduation.
Enterprise Events
Take a look at our University public events or join our public events mailing list by emailing development@lincoln.ac.uk.
Upcoming Lectures
Find out more about the variety of upcoming events taking place at the Lincoln Arts Centre such as exhibitions, shows, plays, and more.
What's On
Graduates can access careers workshops, careers fairs and other bespoke sessions for up to two years after graduating.
Careers Events

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/alumnicommunity/honorarygraduates:
Each year the University recognises individuals who have made significant achievements in their fields or profession at national or international level.
Honorary Degrees are the University's way of recognising exceptional people and the things they've done to make a difference in the world.
Every year, we award a small number of people with a University of Lincoln Honorary Degree at our graduation ceremonies.
We welcome all honorary degree nominations made by anyone within or outside the University.
Please submit your nominations via the button below.
Make a Nomination
Please find below further guidance on how to make a nomination for an honorary degree, including the purpose, criteria, and process.
If you have any questions at all, please contact development@lincoln.ac.uk .
The University makes honorary awards to persons of eminence, excellence, and leadership to celebrate their personal and professional standing, and to engage them in its long-term development as an institution of quality and distinction.
The University sees its honorary graduates as key ambassadors for enhancing its reputation in the wider world, and expects recipients to develop a continuing relationship with those faculties and departments in which they have an interest.
The University sees its honorary graduates as enhancing its reputation and as key ambassadors for the University in the wider world, and wishes to honour outstanding achievements, or distinction in a field or activity that aligns to the values and commitments of the University.
The honorary degree awarded by the University is an honorary doctorate.
Nominations can come from anyone within or outside the University.
Individuals cannot nominate themselves for an Honorary Award.
Listed below are the criteria against which nominations can be supported by the University Honours Committee.
Honorary doctorate degrees are an academic award celebrating excellence in a recognised field.
These fields might include:
Persons nominated should be active in an area of activity that is relevant to the University of Lincoln, such as our Strategic Plan or areas of research expertise .
Awards should reflect the values of the University.
To protect the integrity and independence of the honour, the University does not make honorary awards to:
PROCESS
Step 1: Identify who you’d like to nominate and why.
Have a few good, clear reasons as to why you’re nominating them, and complete the nomination form .
Step 2: Submit your nomination at any time during the year.
It will then go to the University Honours Committee of the Board of Governors, which normally meets twice a year to review submissions.
Step 3: The University Honours Committee of the Board of Governors will approve/decline nominations.
Please note, if a nomination is unsuccessful, no feedback is provided as the process is confidential.
Step 4 : Following approval, the Vice Chancellor will write to your nominee and invite them to receive their Honorary Degree at one of our upcoming graduation ceremonies.
CONFIDENTIALITY
The process for nominating and approving honorary awards is confidential and should not be discussed with the proposed honorand or made public in any way before the Vice Chancellor has invited the honorand to accept the award and the award has been accepted.
CONFERMENT
Honorary awards are conferred at the University’s graduation ceremonies.
John Sergeant is one of the nation’s most distinguished journalists.
He has reported from more than 25 countries for ITV and the BBC, for whom he was Chief Political Correspondent for 12 years.
An early pioneer of computing, she is one of the country's most celebrated entrepreneurs and philanthropists.
The Shirley Foundation is now one of the top 50 grant-giving foundations in the UK.
Dr Candice Pellett is an inspirational District Nurse and Practice Teacher.
She has been recognised as a Queen's Nurse and was awarded OBE in 2014 for her services to healthcare.
The famous American actor, writer and comedian is well-known for his appearances in various TV shows such as Have I Got News For You and The Unbelievable Truth.
Born in Lincolnshire, Robert Webb is a comedian, actor, and writer.
He wrote and starred in the comedy sketch show Peep Show which was the longest running sitcom in Channel 4 history.
Willi Meixner is the Chief Executive Officer of the Power and Gas Division at global engineering giant Siemens AG.
Sophie Wells MBE is a Lincolnshire-born dressage rider and Paralympic gold medallist.
She became the first para rider to compete on an able-bodied championship at the Young Rider Europeans.
John is widely considered one of the most influential voices in the advertising industry, having been a founding partner of creative partnership, Saatchi and Saatchi.
David Ross is best known for co-founding the Carphone Warehouse and is also a prolific philanthropist, having set up the David Ross Foundation which makes charitable donations to various industries.
Air Chief Marshal Sir Stuart Peach is the 32nd Chairman of the Military Committee of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO); the most senior military structure in the Alliance.
Michael is the founder and CEO of the Lincs FM Group.
Formed in 1991, the radio station quickly became the local market leader.
He is recognised for his commitment to local news and information.
The following list provides the names of all of our distinguished honorands, whom we congratulate and welcome as an integral part of the University of Lincoln Alumni community.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/alumnicommunity/giveyourtime:
There are plenty of opportunities for our alumni to get involved in a range of activities to give their time to support the University.
Some of activities that you can get involved in are detailed below, but if you have any questions or would like to discuss giving your time with a member of the Alumni Team, please email us at alumni@lincoln.ac.uk .
Please register your interest in becoming an Alumni Ambassador via the button below and a member of the team will be in touch.
As the role of Alumni Ambassador is voluntary, we are always very grateful for any support you may be able to offer, no matter how small.
Talk to students and share your advice
Share your story and inspire the next generation of students
Provide opportunities such as work experience and placements
Share your insights to support curriculum development or join a board
Our Alumni Ambassadors often support careers events or guest lectures as part of either academic or extracurricular events where they can share their advice and expertise of their chosen industries with current students.
Taking part in an alumni panel event allows our graduates to showcase their strengths, experiences and advise alongside fellow graduates.
These panels often illustrate the wide range of careers and industries that our students can enter upon graduation.
Offer your expertise and advice to prospective students by taking part in a visit to a school.
Talking to students at a younger age helps us to inform them about higher education and how this can help them achieve their full potential.
Offer career support, advice and industry insights to current students through informal mentoring on our dedicated university platform.
It provides a great opportunity for you to give back and connect with our diverse and talented community.
Mentoring experience is a sought-after attribute which is transferable into your own place of work.
This rewarding experience will offer you the chance to inspire new graduates, but also develop your own professional and personal skills-set.
Furthermore, you will:
Mentoring is a relationship in which a more experienced person helps to guide a less experienced person.
Successful mentoring relationships should provide both parties with opportunities for growth of knowledge and expertise in their chosen area.
As well as the satisfaction of helping others you can gain experience in leadership, communication, and management skills.
Mentoring should not be:
It is important to recognise that many of our students will lack confidence and may not feel they are able to make the first interaction with mentors.
Whilst the team will try to manually match students with mentors, we do ask that mentors share posts on the main feed of the platform and ensure their profile is up to date to encourage students to reach out.
While some students will seek a greater level of mentoring, you may also find that others will reach out to only ask one or two questions with little further interaction.
Please do not feel disheartened if this happens.
Your response to that question will likely have already helped that student.
However, should you have any worries or concerns please do get in touch with a member of the team.
Lincoln Connect is the University of Lincoln’s exclusive online community, connecting students with alumni and employers to seek career support, advice, and industry insights.
Join now to start mentoring current students and fellow alumni.
For Lincoln Connect we use a secure, online platform called Graduway that allows students, graduates, and employers to network virtually.
The site is easy to sign up to and functions in a very similar way to LinkedIn, the main difference being that all users are associated with The University of Lincoln.
We are also looking for volunteer Lincoln Connect Champions to support us to increase engagement with the diversity and inclusion groups on the platform.
The groups include:
We are looking for Mentors who can commit to posting on a group of their choice a minimum of once per month.
The posts should be related to the group topic and include insights into your own experience, advice, useful resources, and reflective questions.
Please contact Freddie Copson ( JCopson@lincoln.ac.uk ) if this is an opportunity you are interested in.
Thanks for your interest in becoming a mentor.
Please sign up directly via www.lincolnconnect.co.uk , speak to a member of the Careers and Employability team, email careers@lincoln.ac.uk , or call us on 01522 837828.
We can then discuss your requirements and help you to get signed up to the site.
We look forward to hearing from you!
As a Lincoln Connect mentor, you are encouraged to join us for one of our informal online training sessions; Lincoln Connect - How to make the most out of being a mentor.
You can find more information about any upcoming sessions by contacting the team at alumni@lincoln.ac.uk .
In October 2024 we launched our  Professional Mentoring Programme.
This pilot programme is designed to raise career confidence by linking mentors with second year students with a disability, and will provide a structured framework designed to develop skills, widen professional networks, and raise commercial awareness.
We believe that help and guidance from our community can make a significant difference in the lives of our students.
If you would like to participate in this scheme as a mentor, please contact alumni@lincoln.ac.uk.
What’s Expected
One of the things that we often hear from prospective students is that they are inspired by the stories of successful graduates like you.
The testimonials of alumni who have used their experience at Lincoln to go on to make an impact on the world around them are extremely persuasive with those who are thinking about studying at the University.
We would encourage you to tell your story by sending us a short “vlog” that we can use on our website and on social media channels.
We want the videos to be as natural as possible but it is important for you to include certain pieces of information:
If you have already completed our become an ambassador form, a lot of what you have included in that can be used as the basis of your video.
The vlogs should ideally be around one minute, and certainly no longer than five minutes, and at least HD720p quality (a standard smart phone will produce this quality or higher).
If you choose to film via a mobile phone, you will need to position your camera to film horizontally, rather than portrait.
Once you have completed your video you should upload this to YouTube or vimeo and send the link along with the original video document to alumni@lincoln.ac.uk.
Your video might be used on our website, by our Careers and Employability Team and for various marketing materials.
By uploading and sending us your video you are giving consent for us to use it how we feel best suited.
Should you have any other questions about the recording or use of your video please contact the Alumni Team on alumni@lincoln.ac.uk.
University of Lincoln alumni are uniquely placed to write about their experiences at Lincoln, their course content and how this has shaped their journey post-graduation.
They are also the perfect person to offer advice to current and prospective students on their choices and offer insights into their chosen careers.
Are you keen to share your experiences or are you the expert in something from your chosen field?
For example, if you undertook a work placement or received support from your lecturers or the careers service, is what you learnt something you wish to share with other alumni, current and prospective students?
Make sure that the topic is accessible to all and will provide a good insight that many can learn from.
Some good topics may relate to your decision-making process when applying or choosing your course, work placements, study abroad experiences, how you overcame any issues, any support you received, work experience, an internship or graduate scheme you took part in.
You may also have insight into your chosen industry, be able to offer advice on networking or how to get into this field.
Above all else, your valuable experiences can offer advice and support to fellow alumni and students.
The main audience for you blog post will be fellow alumni, current students from across the institution, not just your course, and any prospective students who may be interesting in the University of Lincoln.
Therefore, please do explain any jargon that you use that might not be common knowledge and use language that is appropriate for students younger than 18.
An idea blog post will be approximately 500 -750 words and can include links to website and any images you wish to share.
Please bear in mind that if approved, it will be posted on our Alumni Success Stories Blogsite so will be read online.
If you could please send your blog post and any images to the alumni team at alumni@lincoln.ac.uk .
It will then be reviewed by the team and if we deem it appropriate, we will share this to our blog site or any other places that may be of benefit to our audiences.
If you would like to run an initial topic by the team before you start writing, please do feel free to drop us an email and we can advise on the topic or angle you wish to take.
Equally, if you have any questions at all, please get in touch.
If you can support with any of the activities detailed below or can provide additional opportunities that are not listed, please get in touch with the Alumni Team who can liaise with you or your employer, as well as linking you with the Placement, Academic, and Careers and Employability Teams as necessary.
Provide work experience or placement opportunities for students at your place of work.
These are invaluable for our students to gain experience in industry which supports their employability.
Support our graduates by linking us with your employer or share your graduate vacancies with the Careers and Employability team which can be listed on our CareerLinc platform.
Supporting fellow alumni in progressing in their careers by contacting the Alumni Team with opportunities and vacancies for alumni with more than two years experience which can be listed on our alumni jobs board.
Sharing your experiences of the course content and the skills you developed whilst at university, as well as how it has supported your career means you can provide unique insights into our curriculum development and by extension can support future graduates in the skills and knowledge they will need to succeed in their chosen careers.
You can also go one step further and join our Industry Advisory Board which meets a few times a year and provides more structured feedback.
If you would like to share your insights or join the advisory board, please get in touch with the Alumni Team.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/alumnicommunity/supporttheuniversity/supportourstudentcost-of-livingcampaign:
The University of Lincoln provides a range of bursaries, scholarships, and support funds to ensure students do not miss out on the life-changing benefits degree-level study can bring due to their family background or financial circumstances.
Successive below-inflation increases in Maintenance Loan amounts have reduced real-terms financial support from government to students from the poorest backgrounds in recent years.
Analysis by organisations including the Institute for Fiscal Studies, the Sutton Trust and the Higher Education Policy Institute (HEPI) suggest universities and families are increasingly filling this gap and many more students now balance part-time work alongside their studies to cover living costs while at university.
More than half of undergraduates (55%) now work part-time jobs, compared to around a third (35%) a decade ago, according to HEPI's Student Academic Experience Survey 2023 .
A survey by the Sutton Trust (Cost of Living 2023) found that more than a quarter (27.8%) of students reported skipping a meal to save on food costs in the last academic year.
The so-called ‘cost of learning crisis’ risks rolling back years of progress on widening participation for young people from communities around the UK, dividing ‘haves’ from ‘have-nots’ both in access to higher education and the experience of it.
At Lincoln, where more 97% of our new undergraduate students are from state schools and around one in five are from low participation neighbourhoods, we are determined to keep meeting the needs and aspirations of those wanting to excel in higher education.
We believe students from all backgrounds should have the same opportunities to succeed in their studies and enjoy the benefits of university life – from the campus social scene to the extracurricular activities valued by employers.
A gift to our cost-of-living campaign will help us to offer further financial support to those who need it most via our University of Lincoln Financial Assistance Fund (ULFAF) and other initiatives designed to support students with the costs of going to university.
Donate Now
Our Campus Job Shop helps students find quality, flexible part-time work they can fit around their studies, but extra financial assistance can reduce pressure to take on excessive paid hours.
At the University of Lincoln, we offer free breakfast sessions and discounted meals, so students always have access to quality, affordable meals.
We want all students to have the chance to be part of our ‘One Community’ – including the many social and sporting opportunities available – without finances being a significant barrier.
Our Hardship Funds can help students from disadvantaged backgrounds cover living costs, including meeting up with friends for fun.
Financial Assistance Fund (ULFAF) Recipient
"It was hugely helpful.
Coming to the end of the course, it was like a weight had lifted.
At a time where the pressure was building and my dissertation date was looming, it was one less thing I had to worry about.
I cannot thank you enough."
£10 can buy a care package of 3 days' food for a student
£50 can ensure a student can hire their graduation gown
£125 can cover society membership costs
£300 can provide hygiene products for up to 200 students
£500 can stock our food bank for one semester
Our fantastic Student Support and Advice Team are on hand to listen, guide and advise.
We also offer a range of bursaries and financial support for students facing rising living costs.
We extend our gratitude to the donors who have generously contributed to the campaign which has significantly enhanced our food bank and related services, allowing us to assist even more students facing financial challenges.
Last year alone, the Students' Union Advice Centre assisted 4,450 students, highlighting the urgent need for accessible support.
Your donations make a vital difference and ensure that no student faces these challenges alone.
Amelia Hinton
Student Support & Development Officer

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/alumnicommunity/supporttheuniversity/thejohnkellyprize:
It is with great sadness that we announce that John Kelly passed away on Thursday 7 th November 2024 after a short illness.
John worked at the University since 2009, and thousands of Lincoln students have benefited from his teaching and mentorship over that time.
Prior to joining the University, John had practised at the criminal Bar and brought substantial experience and expertise in criminal law and criminal evidence.
John taught and supported students in the skills of advocacy and courtroom etiquette, travelling with our students to many mooting competitions, and organising several internal mooting and mock trial events.
John was passionate about law and was module leader for Constitutional Law and The Law of Evidence for many years, also teaching many other modules in the School.
John was invariably friendly, kind and patient and had a wealth of knowledge and experience.
He will be greatly missed by his colleagues and the whole Law School community.
We would like to create a prize in memory of John which will be awarded to the student who achieves the highest mark in the module each year.
Gifts given below in memory of John will fund this prize and support students in Lincoln Law School.
The donation form to support the The John Kelly Prize should display below but if you have not accepted cookies, the donation form can also be accessed by URL here .

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/alumnicommunity/supporttheuniversity/lincolnswanproject:
The project has now ringed over 300 swans and we are currently gathering great data on resightings, thanks to a wonderful group of volunteer data collectors, University students and members of the public.
However, gifts to support our research into these symbols of our city are still needed.
You can give a gift towards the research project to help purchase the equipment to tag these swans so we can keep track of their movements, as well as fund research associated-costs.
You can become a data collector by downloading our app where you can submit your sightings of these swans to provide us with valuable data on their behaviour and breeding success.
You can spread the word about our project so that we can increase the number of people looking out for the health and welfare of Lincoln's iconic swan population.
A Symbol of Our City
Mute swans, scientific name: Cygnus olor, are an important symbol of the city of Lincoln, dating back to the rebuilding of Lincoln cathedral in 1185.
Many environmental factors may drive this apparent decline, such as a decreased food availability, aggression between swans for territory, or fishing lines or lead weights in the waterways leading to either a reduction in survival of adult or juvenile swans.
Get Involved in the Project
Your sightings are really valuable in helping us understand how swans use the waterways in and around Lincoln, as well as telling us where juvenile swans from Lincoln go when they disperse from their natal territories.
Sign up to report your sightings as a volunteer data collector and download our app or contact the team at swanrings@lincoln.ac.uk.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/alumnicommunity/supporttheuniversity/theandrewstevensonaward:
Andrew was Director of Research & Enterprise at the University of Lincoln and led the department that supported all research and enterprise activity across the institution, including: research grant support; business start-up & growth; technology transfer; funding partnerships; knowledge exchange; employer engagement and careers & employability.
He helped to nurture new businesses around the city of Lincoln through incubation centres, helped to combat a skills shortage and set up new communication channels to bring Lincolnshire organisations together.
Through setting up partnerships with companies like Siemens, he was able to help tackle the skills shortage in the region and loved the feeling of helping both businesses and graduates find the right positions.
He loved the variety.
He was hugely excited by the fact that he got involved with everything from the Science and Innovation Park and doing startup work on that for the university, through to careers and employability work that helped to get graduates into the careers they wanted.
He found it fantastically rewarding.
He also got to help the universities academics secure research grant income through to investor network projects.
He once said “the variety and the opportunities my work gives me, to meet with different people and to do different things, is what gets me up in the morning and keeps me going.”
Andrew sadly passed away when he suffered an acute Type A Aortic Dissection at the age of 47.
For more information on Andrew's story please visit Andrew's Aortic Dissection Patient Story .
More information on Aortic Dissections can be found at Aortic Dissection Awareness UK & Ireland | The Patient Charity
We believe that funding a prize in Andrew’s name is an extremely appropriate way to remember him and his dedication to the University.
It was said that if Andrew was a stick of rock he would have had Lincoln University written through him.
Terry and Glenys Stevenson
Andrew Stevenson's parents
The Andrew Stevenson Award was awarded to an exceptional student that had shown the spirit of Enterprise and Entrepreneurship.
Joshua Dale, who received the Award said "The Andrew Stevenson Award gave me peace of mind that the work I've done didn't go unnoticed and reassured me to continue with my projects"
We offer a range of prizes here at the University of Lincoln to recognise and celebrate our students achievements.
If you would like to discuss the opportunity to create or fund a prize to support students, please contact the Development Team.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/alumnicommunity/supporttheuniversity/givetothegreatestneed:
Support the University
The donation form to give to the greatest need should display below but if you have not accepted cookies, the donation form can also be accessed by URL here .

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/alumnicommunity/supporttheuniversity/singledonationpage:
The donation form to make a single donation should display below but if you have not accepted cookies, the donation form can also be accessed by URL here .

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/alumnicommunity/supporttheuniversity/recurringdonationpage:
The donation form to make a recurring donation should display below but if you have not accepted cookies, the donation form can also be accessed by URL here .

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/accfinub:
Clearing offers from 56 UCAS tariff points.
Subject-specific requirements still apply.
See the entry requirements section for details.
3 or 4 years
N400
Accountants play an integral role in the business world, providing the financial information needed to inform decisions at all levels of an organisation.
Our BA (Hons) Accountancy and Finance can help you to take on real-world challenges by applying critical thought in the accountancy and finance discipline.
You are able to gain a solid understanding of accountancy and finance and critically reflect on your learning, while developing the commercial awareness, problem-solving abilities, communication skills, and teamworking that are highly valued by employers.
The course features two different pathways, with one offering exemptions from elements of the professional qualification for ACCA, CIMA, ICAEW, and AIA.
Students can choose which route they would like to pursue at the end of the first year.
The content for both routes is the same with the main difference being the method of assessment employed.
For the exempt route there will be examinations as well as other forms of assessments, for the non-exempt route the assessments will be mainly non-exam based.
You can gain a solid understanding of accountancy and finance and critically reflect on your learning, while developing the commercial awareness, problem-solving abilities, communication skills, and teamworking that are highly valued by employers.
Our course is designed to align with exemptions from leading professional bodies, including the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW), the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA), and the Association of International Accountants (AIA).
You have the choice of two pathways at the end of your first year:
The Exempt Pathway includes a combination of exams and other forms of assessment designed to help you secure exemptions from professional body exams.
The Non-Exempt Pathway is predominantly coursework-based, focusing on assessments other than exams.
The proportion of coursework to exams in the second and final years will depend on your chosen pathway.
Access to industry-standard Bloomberg Terminal
Currently accredited by main UK professional accountancy bodies
Opportunities to gain individualised academic and career guidance
Hands-on experience during a professional practice year
Learn from academics with years of industry experience
Accounting at Lincoln is ranked in the top 20 in the UK for academic support*
*National Student Survey 2024 (out of 101 ranking institutions)
The course aims to provide a comprehensive grounding in accountancy and finance theories and practice, together with the business acumen needed in a complex global financial world.
The study of accountancy and finance progresses through the programme so that you can obtain a critical grasp of core theory along with a thorough knowledge and skills of application and analysis related to these disciplines.
During the programme, you will also explore key accounting and finance issues within the wider business context, and you can select from a range of options aligned to your own interests and career ambitions.
The exemptions pathway has been designed to support learners in becoming a professional accountant by obtaining a high level of exemption from professional body examinations.
The non-exemption route offers you opportunities to demonstrate a wide range  of skills, knowledge, and understanding during coursework assignments rather than written examinations.
While studying at Lincoln, you can learn from a dedicated team of enthusiastic lecturers and researchers who are experts in their fields.
The course aims to provide you with a comprehensive grounding in accountancy and finance theories and practice, together with the business acumen needed in a complex global financial world.
To help you pursue your own career ambitions, you can tailor your degree to your interests through the variety of optional modules.
These include pathways which exempt you from later professional body exams.
Students aiming to maximise exemptions may need to choose the exempt pathway.
Additional exemptions may also be granted upon successful completion of the entire course.
During your studies, you can apply accounting and finance issues to wider business contexts, and we also collaborate with industry professionals and invite guest speakers to share their insights.
These connections help bridge the gap between academic knowledge and real-world practice, offering you valuable opportunities to network and gain industry-relevant perspectives.
The aim of this module is to introduce the students to the legal, ethical, and governance systems that regulate business in the United Kingdom and with its trading partners and allies.
A working knowledge of law, regulation, and governance is essential in order to make any business and its management a success.
Students have the opportunity to learn by inquiry into the major issues in corporate governance and law through lectures and by investigating and discussing them in seminars.
Introduction to the black letter company law and application to everyday legal matters in business can give students an insight into how the law works and its role in decision making in business.
This module develops some quantitative techniques that underpin research and business analysis.
It promotes a critical awareness and understanding of some of the processes, techniques, and technology by which numerical information can be collected and analysed.
In addition to helping students become competent in relevant numerical techniques, it anticipates the requirements of later modules, such as independent study, that entail analysis of numerical information using statistical tests.
This module aims to provide the non-economist with knowledge of macroeconomic theory and contemporary comment.
There is a grounding in basic macro concepts such as inflation and deflation, growth and stagnation, and balance of payment issues and exchange rates.
These can be applied to contemporary issues both nationally and globally.
This module explores a range of economic concepts and basic analytical techniques.
The focus of the module is the Financial Times (FT).
The FT covers issues relating to operations management, accounting, HRM, economics, and finance, all of which are relevant to a business degree.
Students are encouraged to keep abreast of current events in the commercial environment, which can help when competing for placements and employment opportunities in the commercial world.
This module aims to introduce students to the nature and mechanics of financial information.
This is done in a manner which encourages a critical reflection upon the construction and uses of such information.
Fundamental accounting concepts are considered and their application in the maintenance of the ledgers and preparation of financial statements.
In particular, students can be introduced to the detail of double entry book keeping and the associated financial reports of sole traders, partnerships, limited companies (including those in a manufacturing environment) and simple not for profit organisations.
This is an accredited module which can improve students’ chances of gaining professional qualifications and hence improve chances of employability.
This module introduces students to the skills which will be required in the financial industry and those which will be developed as students progress to advanced levels of their studies.
Both management and financial accounting are considered.
The module aims to develop students' ability to produce and understand financial statements and the role of financial information for a variety of possible users and explore the different, often conflicting, needs of these groups.
These skills are highly sought after by employers.
This module is designed to introduce students to the principles and theories underpinning the discipline of organisational behaviour.
The module draws on multiple levels of analysis to explain how individual differences, group dynamics and processes, culture, leadership, and organisation design affect behaviour.
The module aims to develop students’ abilities to engage in critical analysis, evaluation, and argumentation through practical application of classic and contemporary research to a variety of work contexts.
This semester-long module introduces the basics of marketing theory and practice, aimed at students with little or no prior marketing knowledge.
It covers key marketing principles, providing a foundation for more advanced modules.
Students will learn essential
marketing concepts, both in business and within a broader social context.
Seminars focus on communication and collaboration, using specific marketing examples and case studies.
The course starts with guided learning, such as required readings and tutor-led discussions, and gradually shifts towards independent work, where students select their own readings and actively participate in seminars.
The coursework requires students to create marketing media assets and collaborate with peers.
The hands-on activities will also prepare students for future business modules, with skills in digital marketing that are valuable for career development.
Initiated from 2015 and officially founded in 2018, the LSMIF is set up with a structure similar to any other professionally run fund management company with students running every aspect of the fund, from CEO to analyst.
It is one of only few of this kind in the United Kingdom.
The fund uses money raised from donors to invest in shares of companies listed on London Stock Exchange.
It is organized, run and managed the same way as an investment company in the real world.
The fund has got sponsorship and advisory support from UK leading wealth management companies such as Brewin Dolphin and Mattioli Woods with senior officers from them joining the Board of Advisors.
This fund gives students the opportunity to work as analysts, investment managers, CFO, CIO, CEO etc.
Students also have the chances to meet, discuss and learn from experts in the field in Quarterly Investment Committee Meetings series.
Students are given additional training relating to their works.
This module provides students with an introduction to more complex areas of financial accountancy.
It commences with the concepts and principles of financial accounting, recognition, and measurement of non-current assets, impairments, revenue recognition concepts as well as accounting for government grants.
Students can gain a solid foundation in the application of conceptual and regulatory frameworks as well as International Financial Reporting Standards, which will help them prepare financial statements in the Financial Reporting module (ACC2022M or ACC2023M) and understand advanced financial accounting and reporting techniques in level 6.
The purpose of the module is to familiarise and develop students’ awareness and ability to command the various initiatives and tools within finance.
The focus will be the introduction of the regulatory environment and requirements to “practice”, which will enhance employability of students.
Sections of the learning schedule are kept open to ensure that the module is teaching the most current issues in financial developments.
Technical skills are taught with the aid of computer data sources and constructs of coding, and financial mathematics, through programming software.
Developments in financing methods and related articles will also be introduced and explored within sessions.
The module reinforces the importance of an ethical and professional approach, through the review and knowledge of codes of conduct and various external verification techniques and enforcement mechanisms.
The module is designed to give students technical ability and relevant knowledge and skills of real-world developments in finance, which is useful from an employability perspective.
This module aims to provide students with the opportunity to develop knowledge of the gains to be made from trading internationally.
It focuses also on the gains to be made from economic integration and the globalisation process.
The module also seeks to examine the main patterns of trade and exchange and aims to demonstrate how free trade can be influenced by government and the future risks of protectionism.
This module explores some key areas of microeconomic policy for business.
At its heart it is a consideration of competition theory and industrial structure.
This informs the analysis of competition policy in sectors, such as telecoms and airlines.
This is extended to a consideration of injecting competition into the state sector.
Other areas of state intervention are explored where activities are taxes; prices are regulated; or industry is incentivised to relocate.
Throughout, concepts and applications are made relevant to real world examples.
The aim of this module is to introduce the role of the financial manager and the impact of economic environment on financial management function.
The module can help students to develop abilities to evaluate, interpret, and discuss key issues surrounding investment, financing, and working capital management decisions.
The module begins by considering the financial management function and environment before introducing the time value of money and discounted cash flow allowing students to develop investment appraisal and business valuation techniques.
Business finance and capital structure theories will also be considered.
The module helps students to develop abilities to evaluate, interpret and discuss key issues surrounding investment, financing, and working capital management decisions.
This module is designed to make students aware of international financial markets and institutions.
The need for financial markets and institutions is the underlying scope of the module and students have the opportunity to investigate this importance for their own countries.
The module syllabus assumes knowledge acquired in ACC2021M Financial Accountancy and develops and applies this further and in greater depth.
The syllabus begins with the preparation of financial statements including Comprehensive Income Statement, Statement of Financial Position, Statement of Changes in Equity and Statement of Cashflows for single entities.
It then moves into the subjects of Ethics and Corporate Governance as well as calculation and interpretation of accounting ratios.
The main area of the syllabus is designed to give students with a solid foundation in the techniques of preparing single entity financial statements as well as sensitising students to the importance of Ethics and Corporate Governance principles in financial reporting.
This module gives students insight into the preparation of financial statements, including Comprehensive Income Statement, Statement of Financial Position, Statement of Changes in Equity and Statement of Cashflows for single entities.
The module also explores ethics and corporate governance with the ultimate aim of giving students a solid foundation in the techniques of preparing single entity financial statements as well as understanding the importance of Ethics and Corporate Governance principles in financial reporting.
The module aims to develop an understanding of the principles, concepts, and contemporary issues in modern audit and forensic accounting, within the dynamics of the rapidly changing accounting and business environment, under legal and professional rules.
The module will explore issues such as independence, auditor liability and the audit process from the initial engagement through planning, risk assessments to completion, review, and reporting.
The module will also explore the subject of countering fraud and financial crimes in today’s society.
Great emphasis is placed upon the application of counter fraud approaches, as well as audit and assurance evaluation and decision-making techniques to current situations, which consequently offer a practical, as well as a theoretical perspective, on the forensics, audit, and assurance subject.
Lincoln International Business School (LIBS) believes that an option to study overseas is a valuable educational opportunity for our students.
The optional year is intended to:
-	enable students to benefit from studying similar subjects within a cross cultural environment, by exposing  students to a wider academic and cultural experience;
-	facilitate reflexivity in learning and personal and professional development;
-	enhance their future employment opportunities by increasing their cultural and professional mobility.
This module is optional for all taught on campus undergraduate students within Lincoln International Business School.
Study Abroad is a year long module which enables students to spend time studying abroad at one of the University’s approved partner institutions.
During the year spent abroad, students share classes with local students and study on a suite of locally-delivered taught modules which have been approved in advance by the University.
As many partner institutions support internships it is anticipated that some students will elect to combine study (minimum one semester equivalent) with work and or a period of volunteering.
Eligible students must have completed their second year of study to a satisfactory standard (normally with an average of a 2.1 or above, dependent upon partner requirements) standard and successfully completed the application process.
Upon completion of the study period abroad, each student will be required to submit a portfolio including a reflection on the experience of living and studying in a different cultural environment and the skills acquired.
The LSMIF will be designed to provide students with the essential knowledge on the following main knowledge blocks - at intermediate level for Year 2:
- How stock markets work and how to read financial data
- Valuation techniques including cash flow projections, dividend growth modelling, and comparative analysis.
- Market timing and technical analysis.
- Asset allocation optimization
- Quarterly investment committee meetings with experts from the industry.
- Investment discussion meetings.
This module provides an opportunity for students to extend their understanding of macroeconomics.
It emphasises the role of macroeconomics as an applied discipline, focusing on issues facing the world’s economies featured in the Financial Times.
By the end students are expected to be able to use the techniques learned to interpret changing macroeconomic aggregates, events and policies.
This module builds on knowledge and skills developed in year one.
It will provide students with both a technical, and a critical understanding of key management accounting concepts and techniques.
This module includes an introduction to cost terms, concepts, cost assignment, process costing, joint by product costing and income effects of alternative cost accumulation system.
The module will prepare students for the compilation and application of relevant management information in the workplace.
Students will also have the opportunity to develop soft employability skills, through the content and style of the teaching and learning.
This level two module provides the major underpinning for Management Accountancy for Planning, Control & Performance Evaluation in semester 2 and for the level 6 module Strategic Management Accountancy.
This module builds on knowledge and skills developed in semester 1.
This module focuses on decision making, planning, control, and performance measurement, including activity based costing (ABC); budgeting processes; standard costing and variance analysis and the applications of quantitative methods to management accounting including the application of linear programming.
This level two module provides the major underpinning for the level 6 module Strategic Management Accountancy (exempt).
This module is aimed at those students who have decided to take a year out of formal studies to gain accredited work experience and are registered on a degree programme with an accredited professional practice element.
The Professional Practice Year aims to give students a continuous experience of full-time work within an organisation.
It should be a three way co-operative activity between employer, student and University from which all parties benefit.
Students can choose to pursue a variety of options including a placement year, a consultancy project or a work-based dissertation.
Potential costs relating to this module are outlined in the Features tab.
The aim of this module is to discuss concepts, theories, and issues in the accountancy profession.
The module has a practical focus and requires students to apply the knowledge and skills obtained throughout their programme to tasks which may be performed in a graduate role.
The module should enhance professional readiness and skills in order to maximise students career development.
Rather than focus exclusively on IFRS and large corporations, the module will consider different approaches to developing accounting rules and regulations, both in the UK and across the world.
Students will be introduced to a range of issues that affect small and medium sized enterprises, preparing them for working in a wide range of organisations.
This contrasts with financial reporting modules with professional exemptions which largely focus on large corporations who follow international financial reporting standards (IFRS).
As an innovative module, students will gain hands on experience of a cloud-based accounting tool as well as be exposed to other technological and reporting developments which have been recently implemented or are currently in discussion.
This module reinforces the importance of an ethical and professional approach and is designed to give students background knowledge and relevant skills of real world financial accountants, which is useful from an employability perspective.
The aim of this module is to equip students with the skills to review and analyse corporate actions, such as mergers and divestments, from a strategy and finance context.
The focus in this module will be technical and calculation based, building on knowledge gained in previous modules.
Beyond these elements of finance, the module will also focus upon elements drawn from Financial Management in level 5, specifically considering how the prices of derivatives are estimated.
A variety of models and wider applications will be reviewed, such as simulations and other computer-based techniques, with the intention of deriving solutions to firm-based problems.
This module recognises the many different types of decisions that managers are required to make and aims to increase awareness about the importance of social and environmental issues.
It explores how management accounting information can be used in support of business decisions and considers management accounting tools in planning, controlling, and supporting the implementation of the organisation’s strategies.
The module is designed to apply strategic thinking to management accounting, sustainability, investment appraisal, profitability, and costing.
It offers students opportunities to apply management accounting skills to develop strategic thinking, planning, and ability to evaluate and discuss environmental management accounting issues.
Academic journal articles, professional bodies publications, and case studies provide the conceptual basis for the module to understand specific management accounting techniques in action.
The aim of this module is to provide students with a solid foundation in the techniques of complex accounts preparation.
This module helps students to develop abilities to evaluate, interpret and discuss the concepts and principles of consolidated financial statements as well as apply their knowledge to numerical problems.
This module is part of the Financial Accounting & Reporting stream and builds upon the concepts and techniques of Financial Accountancy (ACC2021M) and Financial Reporting (exempt) (ACC2022M).
Students will prepare consolidated financial statements and focus on more complex financial reporting standards such as intangibles and financial instruments.
This module is part of the Financial Accounting & Reporting stream and builds upon the concepts and techniques of level 2 modules: Financial Accountancy and Financial Reporting.
This module reinforces the importance of an ethical and professional approach and is helpful for students who are pursuing a career in the accountancy and finance sectors.
It is designed to give students background technical knowledge and relevant skills of real world financial accountants, which is useful from an employability perspective.
This module aims to widen the concepts and motivations in understanding the economic activities of agents, and develops an appreciation of why these are different from standard/neo-classical economics.
The module draws on the recent research from the area of behavioural finance, biology and psychology to present a foundation, upon which to build a more critical understanding of the rational economics foundations.
The module covers alternative modus operandi for economic interactions, such as Prospect Theory and other models.
The module investigates situations and the assumptions about behaviour which gives rise to certain behavioural biases, which constitute observable phenomena.
These are then generalised to the “probable effects” on markets.
This module aims to: 
• promote an understanding of the taxation of corporate entities based on the latest Finance Act.
• develop analytical skills which can be utilised in the assessment of business planning opportunities.
The module is designed to provide an overview of corporate taxation including the implementation of tax through the planning process.
It is designed to give students the knowledge and skills to incorporate and assess the impact of corporate tax and VAT.
The module will examine in detail the practicalities of corporation tax and VAT to examine ways in which exemptions and reliefs can be used to defer or minimise tax liabilities.
The unit will be a blend of practical and theoretical analysis.
It will employ the use of case studies and the preparation of computations as well as considering the conceptual underpinnings of taxation as a subject.
The learnings throughout this module, from strategic analysis, modelling and challenge through to the corporate and financial analysis of organisations will be invaluable in whichever type of organisation a student is eventually employed.
The module aims to teach students to challenge and think into the future, whilst ensuring the vision has a firm financial and systems foundation.
The Final Independent Research Project, allows students to undertake a substantive piece of research in the context of both their chosen degree specialism and Lincoln International Business School's commitment to principles of responsible management.
Research areas will be framed by areas of research expertise existing with relevant departments.
Students will progress through guided research and workshops to supervised independent study.
Students can elect to undertake their final project as an enterprise project, culminating the development of a business plan for a new enterprise.
Planned ventures will be framed by Lincoln International Business Schools commitment to Principles of Responsible Management and as such prospective start-ups will need to evaluate their proposed venture in the context of sustainable development.
Student will be provided with appropriate academic support and business advice.
The Negotiated Client Based Project is an elective which  develops the skills and understanding of what makes a successful consultant, whilst reviewing industry sustainability issues and what is needed to support a company through change.
The Negotiated Client Based Project (NCBP) sits alongside other forms of independent study at Level 6 including (but not exclusively) Independent Research Project, or Independent Responsible Enterprise Project.
Students are encouraged to learn and understand the challenges, opportunities and skills required by organisations to make effective decisions on behalf of a client in a “live business” environment.
This module enables students to consider success and failure aspects of business and marketing within the context of LIBS commitment to Principles of Responsible Management and sustainable development.
The aim of the module is to introduce students to the wide variety of investment categories which provide savings and investment structures for individuals.
The content of the module addresses core financial needs of individuals, such as housing transactions [Mortgages, Equity withdrawal, etc.] and insurance products [not general insurance] that enable students to develop financial plans to solve individual client needs.
As well as product awareness, the module will review the super-structure and supporting institutions around individual financial services, with a view to enhance the support for ethical and robust financial services.
This module aims to:
- promote an understanding of the finances of the individual and the unincorporated business unit based on the latest Finance Act.
- develop analytical skills which can be utilised in the assessment of business planning opportunities.
The module is designed to provide an overview of personal taxation including unincorporated business and the implementation of tax through the planning process.
It is designed to give students the knowledge and skills to incorporate and assess the impact of tax in personal and business decisions.
The unit will also examine in detail the practicalities of the UK Tax system on income and capital and examine ways in which exemptions and reliefs can be used to defer or minimise tax liabilities.
Private Banking and Wealth Management is a module targeted at students who wish to build upon their previous knowledge of financial markets and products by analysing and evaluating the core financial service of wealth management.
The module aims to both broaden students’ knowledge and understanding of the financial services industry and further develop their intellectual and practical skills via the analysis and evaluation of the wealth management process.
The aim of this module is to provide the competencies needed to plan and control to support the implementation of the organisation’s strategies.
This module helps students to develop abilities to evaluate, interpret, and discuss management accounting issues.
This module recognises the many different types of decisions that managers are required to make and considers how management accounting information can be used in support of these decisions.
The module covers total quality management, pricing strategies, decision-making under risk and uncertainty.
It introduces how to manage and control the performance of various units of the organisation in line with both short-term budgets and long-term strategy.
The module consider how data analytics can help relieve pressures of doing more with fewer resources by evaluating the efficiency of budgeting.
Students will be given opportunities to apply and develop Excel skills as well as to increase awareness about ERPs (e.g.
SAP, Oracle) and specialist data analytics software used in industry (e.g.
Power BI, Tableau).
The application of analytics and visualisation with financial and operational data can provide insights into the operational planning decisions and create opportunities for advanced reports that enhance decision-making power.
The module considers how data analytics can help relieve pressures of doing more with fewer resources by evaluating the efficiency of budgeting.
† Some courses may offer optional modules.
The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved.
This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed.
Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
This module is intended for students who are interested in understanding the way people work, as individuals and as group members in firms.
The module explores essential topics in a clear, concise and informative manner, aiming to introduce students to the interpersonal perceptual processes in a work environment; the key behavioural factors determining effective and ineffective groups; the usefulness of theories on leadership/management styles; and the difficulties in implementing change in organisations.
As an accredited module, this can help improve your employability.
As an accredited module, this can help enhance your employability.
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study.
In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, and contact hours.
The way students are assessed on this course may vary for each module and will also be determined by which pathway is chosen.
Examples of assessment methods that are used include coursework, such as written assignments, reports or dissertations; practical exams, such as presentations, performances or observations; and written exams, such as formal examinations or in-class tests.
The weighting given to each assessment method may vary across each academic year.
The University of Lincoln's policy is to ensure that staff return assessments to students promptly.
The way you are assessed on this course may vary for each module and will also be determined by which pathway is chosen.
Examples of assessment methods that are used include coursework, such as written assignments, reports, or dissertations; practical exams, such as presentations, performances, or observations; and written exams, such as formal examinations or in-class tests.
The course offers two pathways, one of which provides exemptions from elements of examination for the following :
- Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) - Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) - Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW) - Association of International Accountants (AIA).
Students aiming to maximi s e exemptions may need to choose the exempt pathway.
Additional exemptions may also be granted upon successful completion of the entire course .
ACCA Exemption Calculator
CIMA Exemption Calculator
Students can use our Bloomberg Terminal, which is designed to help industry professionals make better-informed investment decisions by offering the latest market news along with historical data and an international network to communicate securely and reliably.
Bloomberg offers a practical resource for students to reinforce the theories they learn in lectures, and enable them to become familiar with the tools used by today’s financial services professionals.
All full-time students on this course have the opportunity to take a year-long professional practice placement after the second year.
A placement enables you to gain valuable experience and apply your knowledge in a real business setting.
A Placement Year Fee is payable to the University of Lincoln during this year for students joining in 2025/26 and beyond.
Students are expected to cover their own travel, accommodation, and living costs.
Students who complete the one-year professional practice placement will be awarded a BA (Hons) Accountancy and Finance (with Professional Practice).
Those who choose not to complete a placement will receive a BA (Hons) Accountancy and Finance, or equivalent exit award.
All full-time students on this course are able take an optional year abroad encompassing study at one partner institution (one term) with the option to work, volunteer, or continue your study abroad (second term).
A Study Abroad Tuition Fee is payable to the University of Lincoln during this year for students joining in 2025/26 and beyond.
No extra tuition fee is payable to the host university, but students are expected to cover their own travel, accommodation, and living costs.
Travel grants and an overseas rate maintenance loan may be available for eligible students from Student Finance.
The University’s Global Opportunities Team can provide further support and guidance.
A BA (Hons) Accountancy & Finance student and their teacher go head to head at a game of Take on the Tower.
But in between the tense moments, they also answer questions about the course so you can find out what it's REALLY like studying Accountancy & Finance.
Lincoln International Business School offers the Student Managed Investment Fund (LSMIF), which is an investment fund created, operated, and maintained by students within the school, with everything running within the real-world environment of finance.
One of only a handful of its kind in the UK, students will be managing real money with the objective of making positive returns while managing risk.
Industry veteran and long-time lecturer Hao Quach can help support the students throughout, utilising his years of experience in all aspects of investment banking and 20 years teaching in many countries.
Each year the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales awards prizes to second year students who have excelled academically or made significant progress in key areas and skills that are vital for future accountants and business leaders.
This award partnership is a recognition of how our degree is specifically designed to help our students develop the skills and techniques required by the accountancy profession, which can help them prepare for the workplace.
I’ve received great teaching and amazing support over my degree.
The lecturers make the content come alive by using real life examples and their own experiences.
Paige Robson
BA (Hons) Accountancy and Finance
Our BA (Hons) Accountancy and Finance degree is designed to open doors to a wide range of career possibilities, from traditional accounting roles to innovative opportunities in diverse industries.
With our two-pathway structure, we encourage students to think beyond the major accounting firms and explore exciting career prospects in various sectors and organizations.
Graduates can pursue roles such as accountants, personal financial managers, tax advisers, auditors, quality analysts, or even chief financial officers.
Many of our alumni have secured positions at prestigious organizations, including HMRC, PwC, Deloitte, Siemens, Grant Thornton, J.P.
Morgan, British Sugar, HM Treasury, Ernst & Young, and Santander.
With the flexibility and industry relevance of our program, you’ll be well-equipped to carve out your own career path in an ever-evolving financial landscape .
Lincoln International Business School works with students and organisations to enhance the contribution of business to society.
For students, that means developing their business skills and knowledge to improve their career readiness.The University of Lincoln is a member of AACSB, a global nonprofit association connecting educators, students, and businesses to achieve a common goal: to create the next generation of great leaders.
112 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent level 3 qualifications.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit.
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 112 UCAS Tariff points.
International Baccalaureate: 29 points overall.
GCSE's: Minimum of three to include a grade 5 in Maths, a 4 in English and one further GCSE graded at 4 or above.
Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.
We may consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications.
For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/ .
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
The University of Lincoln's International College also offers university preparation courses for international students who do not meet the direct entry requirements.
Upon successful completion, students can progress to Bachelor's study at the University of Lincoln.
Please visit https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/internationalcollege/ for more information.
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
104 to 112 UCAS Tariff points.
This must be achieved from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent Level 3 qualifications.
A Level: BCC to BBC
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction Merit Merit
T Level: Merit Overall
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 104 to 112 UCAS points to be achieved from 45 Level 3 credits.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall.
GCSE's:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English and a Grade 5 in Maths .
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, Extended Project Qualification (EPQ).
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications.
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element.
For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page
Going to university is a life-changing step and it's important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start.
A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.
Course  Fees
For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs.
To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from £1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees.
For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages .
We offer a range of opportunities across the year to help you to get a real feel for what it might be like to study here.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/eqsabwub:
Clearing offers from 48 UCAS tariff points.
3 years (4 years if taken with the optional sandwich year)
D790
The scientific study of animal behaviour and welfare furthers our understanding of why animals behave in the way that they do, and helps us learn how best to respond to the challenges that animals face when living in captive and wild environments.
This degree employs a multi-disciplinary, research-driven approach to the study of animal behaviour and welfare.
The course aims to help students develop the knowledge and skills needed to understand animal behaviour and welfare, working, for example, with insects, reptiles, birds, and mammals.
It is informed by academics who are considered to be at the forefront of their respective fields in welfare assessment, animal management, evolutionary biology, and animal cognition.
This includes leading experts Professor Daniel Mills, who specialises in clinical animal behaviour; Professor Anna Wilkinson, who specialises in animal cognition; and Professor Oliver Burman, who specialises in assessment of animal welfare.
Subject area ranked 1st overall in the UK*
Optional overseas field trip to locations around the world
Optional placement year
Subject area ranked 1st for student experience and teaching quality**
Fully-funded residential field trip in the UK
Taught by experienced research-active staff
*Guardian University Guide 2025 (out of 18 ranking institutions)
**Good University Guide 2025 (Out of 27 ranking institutions)
In the first year, students can develop a solid foundation in animal anatomy and physiology, cell biology, genetics, animal management, animal behaviour, and animal welfare.
These themes are developed further in the second year through the study of specialist subjects dealing with animal behaviour, animal health and disease, animal protection, and animal conservation.
In the final year, core modules focus on pure and applied aspects of animal cognition and welfare, with a specialist applied behaviour module involving applying your skills and knowledge to graduate careers.
Students also undertake a supervised, independent research project.
Animal Management will cover the contributions of animal scientists, welfare bodies, legislators, producers and consumers to the housing and management of captive animals.
There will be a focus on the animal’s biological requirements in captivity and the application of good husbandry practice to farm, laboratory, zoo and companion animals of a wide range of taxonomic groups.
Comparative Anatomy and Physiology of Animals is concerned with the principles of the diversity of anatomical form and function in animals using a comparative approach.
Anatomical adaptations will be explored across taxa within the animal kingdom in order to show how different types of organisms use their anatomy to solve the similar physiological problems.
Through this, an understanding will be developed of how organisms from different taxa address physiological aspects of their life histories.
Ecology is the scientific study of the interactions between organisms and their environment.
These interactions can be studied across different levels of biological organisation including individuals, populations, communities and ecosystems.
This module will examine how these different levels of organisation are interconnected and how the study of ecology allows us to better understand patterns in the natural world
This module aims to introduce the principles underlying animal behaviour and the welfare of animals in our care.
It will adopt approaches derived from Tinbergen’s levels of explanation of behaviour, such as control, lifetime development and adaptive value of behaviour.
Students will have the opportunity to be taught how to observe and record the behaviour of animals from a range of taxonomic groups.
The module will introduce approaches to animal welfare assessment and their application.
Introduction to the Life Sciences is designed to provide a foundation for students to develop their knowledge and understanding of fundamental cell biology, biochemistry and genetics in the context of life sciences.
Research methods for the Life Sciences aims to introduce the skills and knowledge necessary for students to assimilate and judge scientific knowledge.
Students will be introduced to the tools required to search and evaluate the scientific literature relevant to their studies, and some of the key philosophical constructs around which scientific knowledge is based.
They will be taught about hypothesis testing, experimental design, data collection, basic mathematical and statistical concepts, and data presentation, and gain hands-on experience of their application.
This module will deal primarily with the ethological and psychological concepts underlying our understanding of animal behaviour.
These frameworks will be supported by reference to key studies of domestic and wild animal behaviour from a wide range of taxonomic groups, but with an emphasis on recent developments in the field to reflect the modern synthesis of underlying theories.
The module will also focus on application of these concepts through practical work, workshops and seminars to build on core concepts delivered in lectures, through investigation of behavioural phenomena, discussion of alternative interpretations and application to wild and domestic animals.
This module covers some aspects about animal health and disease.
In particular, diseases of a wide variety of different animals, and the impacts which they pose to the animals, and humans.
This will also include some levels of disease treatments, and control, and discuss different methods of these.
Functional animal nutrition of various species to prevent disease and maintain optimal health, as well as how diseases can affect behaviour will also be included.
This module explores the regulation and enforcement of animal protection including the background and need for legislation relating to animals, the scientific, political and legal procedures involved in forming legislation and how citizens may become involved in that process.
Students develop critical analytical skills through the interpretation and application of legal frameworks as well as the evaluation of the research background underpinning the law.
Students also learn to develop and present arguments used in decisions regarding animal protection
This module provides a critical insight into the application of the principles of conservation biology.
It will give an overview of the nature, value and complex threats to biodiversity and will detail the biological problems faced by small populations of animals, in particular.
The module will also deal with the practice of population conservation and management, including methods to assess population size, survival rates and how to use this information to assess the viability of populations.
Data-centric skills are crucial for any life scientist undertaking any form of data collection, management, visualisation, and/or analysis.
This module introduces students to skills in data storage, handling, and manipulation; understanding different data types; visualising data; fitting statistical and analytical models; interpreting and reporting statistical and analytical results; and using these skills in experimental designs.
In the age of information, computational skills are becoming ever more relevant, and this module will hone different computational skills.
All these skills can aid students in undertaking future research projects, including the third-year honours project.
The Evolution module aims to introduce the fundamental concepts and theories that explain and predict how biodiversity evolves as a result of multiple factors emerging from both ecological and sexual interactions.
The integrative nature of this module guarantees that a broad diversity of the central topics in the field of evolution is covered.
This module provides an overview of the cellular and molecular basis of the immune response in health and human diseases.
The structure, function and complex mechanisms of host defence by B- and T-Cells will be discussed.
Students will evaluate the role of inflammatory mediators, soluble effectors, and cellular cytotoxicity in inflammation and immunity.
This module is an introduction to the key major taxonomic groups of invertebrates and vertebrates.
Major invertebrate groups will include inter alia: sponges, cnidarians, flatworms, nematodes, annelids, molluscs, arthropods, echinoderms, and cephalochordates.
All major vertebrate classes will be considered in detail.
This module deals with managing ecosystems in a range of contexts, and includes assessing and addressing the impacts of human activity on ecological systems.
It also examines the suitability of different management strategies to deal with a range of environmental problems.
This module focuses on reproduction and development in a range of invertebrates and vertebrates.
There will be a comparative analysis of anatomy, physiology, behaviour and evolution of reproductive patterns, including the main anatomical features of male and female reproductive tracts.
There will be descriptions of the processes of gamete production in males and females.
The underlying principles of ontogeny from fertilisation to birth will be described in a variety of taxa with an emphasis on the factors controlling developmental processes.
Additional content will focus on factors, e.g.
environmental pollution, that affect reproduction and development in animals
The School believes that an option to study overseas is a valuable educational opportunity for our students.
Provision of this option supports the educational aims of the School of Life Sciences and enhances the distinctiveness of its degrees at Lincoln.
- enable students to benefit from studying within a cross cultural environment;
- expose students to a wider academic and cultural experience;
- enhance their future employment opportunities;
- by increasing their cultural and professional mobility.
This module is optional for students within the School.
Study Abroad is a year long module which enables students to spend a year studying abroad at one of the University's approved partner institutions.
Eligible students must have completed their second year of study to a satisfactory standard and successfully completed the application process for the year abroad.
Upon their return, as part of the assessment for this module, students are required to critically reflect upon their experience of living and studying in a different cultural environment and the skills acquired.
This module aims to help students understand theory, develop skills, build tacit knowledge and importantly, integrate and apply know-how and skills acquired from prior learning to novel situations.
The module is built around the principle of scientific enquiry and the ownership of that process by students in order to develop cognitive, affective and psychomotor skills.
Student ownership will be developed throughout the module, culminating in an independent, residential in-situ field study in which they design a study, collect & analyse data and present their findings.
This module explores the scientific study of animal cognition and welfare, with particular attention focused on experimental design, methodological considerations, and interpretation.
It will cover the objective assessment of animal cognition and welfare with research examples from both wild and captive animals.
This module applies the principles underpinning the management of animal behaviour to a range of real world situations including management of companion animals, farm animals, animals involved in research, and animals held in zoological collections.
Particular emphasis is given to understanding the impact of alternative approaches to achieving desirable management outcomes and promoting animal welfare, involving a range of environmental and behavioural interventions.
The module aims to equip students with knowledge and skills that will be valuable in postgraduate employment in animal-based industries as well as apply knowledge accrued during degree to current issues in animal-based industries.
In this module, students undertake an independent programme of research under supervision from a member of staff.
It provides students with an opportunity to demonstrate original and critical thought, as well as to build discipline-specific research and project-management skills.
A wide range of subject expertise exists within the School, and students are expected to work on a project that is relevant to their programme of study.
Under the guidance of a supervisor, students will review the literature, identify a research question/aim and objectives, and design a programme of research respectively.
Students will be expected to manage the project and work in a safe and ethical manner, which will include undergoing training in and engaging with obtaining relevant ethical approval and risk assessment.
Students will collect and analyse data, record their activities and research methodology and results in a “lab book”/ equivalent robust means of recording.
We currently offer projects in the laboratory (wet or animal) or field, projects that involve data analysis, literature research, educational research, science communication research and market research.
Students may work individually or in groups addressing similar questions, but must write up individually.
The findings of the research will be written up and presented orally.
The conduct and performance of the student as a research apprentice will be assessed.
Behavioural ecology examines the way in which behavioural repertoires contribute to survival and ultimately reproductive success.
The module will focus on key topics including: Optimality Theory, Sexual Selection, Communication and Sensory Ecology, Altruism and Cooperation, Arms Races, Fighting and Assessment, Navigation and Migration, and Human Behaviour.
The module aims to provide an understanding of the control of infectious disease in companion and animals, livestock species and wildlife.
The module will explore practical control measures for diseases of animals, building explicitly on the knowledge and understanding gained in other modules.
Particular areas of study will include:
- Nature and examples of important infectious pathogens
- Host Responses to Infectious Pathogens
- Control of disease at the level of the individual and population
- Manipulation of transmission dynamics
- Biosecurity and husbandry
- Treatment of disease
- Breeding or engineering genetically resistant animals
- Vaccination and design of novel vaccines.
These topics will be addressed in a holistic way that encourages students to be able to design and implement control strategies for known and emerging diseases.
This ability will be explicitly tested in coursework and an oral examination.
This module provides students with the opportunity to investigate biological phenomena in the field at an overseas location.
Students work in groups, guided by staff, to develop and test hypotheses allowing them to understand more about biological processes operating within the study area.
They are encouraged to view the ecosystem within the wider context of the anthropogenic impacts being imposed on it.
This module is optional and courses run subject to sufficient student demand.
In this module students can gain an understanding of, and an appreciation for, the interactions between plants and animals that have been the driving force for the evolution of the world as we know it.
Interactions between the flowering plants and vertebrate and invertebrate animals have led to the huge diversity of flowering plants that maintain the essential life support systems of the planet and are the basis of all current agricultural systems.
Despite the huge economic costs of agricultural pests that damage plants, the evolutionary arms race between plants and their herbivores has driven the evolution of many of the important plant secondary compounds we use today as stimulants (e.g.
caffeine) or drugs (e.g.
salicylic acid = aspirin).
Other economically, evolutionarily, or ecologically important plant-animal interactions include pollination and seed dispersal.
Students can examine the economic, evolutionary, and ecological consequences of plant-animal interactions at scales from ecosystems to molecules.
They will have the opportunity to develop their own perspective on this important topic, and will be asked to review and interpret and evaluate the evidence available in the primary literature.
Conservation of plants and animals usually involves interactions between multiple stakeholders including scientists, landowners, communities, government, and NGOs.
A range of practical and transferable skills are therefore beneficial for employment in both conservation research and conservation practice.
This module will refine certain such skills that students have acquired through their degree, and help them understand how to apply them in a conservation biology setting.
Its focus is to provide opportunities for real world and experiential learning, and to progress relevant employability skills.
The impact of parasites to the health, welfare, and productivity of animals remains one of the most important issues in veterinary biology.
A detailed understanding of the biology and epidemiology of parasites and the association they have with their hosts is vital in protecting and improving animal’s health and welfare.
This module aims to provide a theoretical background for understanding the specialised features that parasites have developed to adapt to their host and transmit between hosts, the diseases which result, and advances in treatment and prevention of infection.
Students can also learn analytical laboratory methods for the identification of different types of ecto- and endoparasites.
Case studies will be used to illustrate how the current advances in research are applied to understand and inform the epidemiology, control, and prevention of parasite mediated disease in animals and monitor emergent diseases globally and within the UK.
The way students are assessed on this course may vary for each module.
Assessments are designed to develop your confidence in the skills you will need for graduate careers working with animals and provide authentic application of these skills in real-world contexts.
There is an optional overseas field trip in the third year.
This will provide the opportunity to do research in a novel environment and to study local plants and animals.
Destinations may vary, but have previously included the cloud forests of Ecuador and Molise in Italy.
Optional field trips may incur additional costs, including flights.
Students may also be required to pay for overnight stays, local travel, and food close to the destination if their flights arrive the day before the team are scheduled to meet.
Students may bring personal items of clothing and travel equipment, some of which may be specialised for the environment they are travelling to, and recommended medicines and travel toiletries such as anti-malaria medication, vaccinations, insect repellent and sunscreen.
These costs will depend on what you choose to bring.
Alongside a fully funded residential field trip in the UK, students on this course can take part in an optional overseas field trip in the third year.
On each trip students are introduced to local flora and fauna, present a group project, and complete an identification test of plants, vertebrates, and invertebrates.
All full-time students on this course may take an optional placement year between the second and third year of the programme.
While these placements are student-led, you will be continuously supported by academic staff throughout.
Placements provide the opportunity to gain workplace experience and a chance to hone your skills in a professional environment.
An optional year abroad is available for full-time students between the second and third years.
A Study Abroad Tuition Fee is payable to the University of Lincoln during this year for students joining in 2025/26 and beyond.
My degree prepared me for my job at a major UK dog rescue charity as it provided me with up-to-date training techniques, the confidence to apply these techniques, and animal welfare knowledge.
Sophie Bromley
BSc (Hons) Animal Behaviour and Welfare
This course is informed by academics who are considered to be at the forefront of their respective fields in welfare assessment, animal management, evolutionary biology, and animal cognition.
These include Professor Daniel Mills, Professor Anna Wilkinson, Professor Oliver Burman, and Dr Jonathan Cooper.
Our research work is read widely by the scientific community as well as informing the Government, animal welfare sector, and animal industry regarding animal protection.
Research projects have included leading work with cats, dogs, rabbits, horses, reptiles, and parrots, both at the University of Lincoln and working with research partners.
Students at Lincoln have conducted project work on a wide range of zoo based species in partnership with local zoos, including polar bears, hunting dogs, tigers, meerkats, and primates.
As well as informing teaching by providing deeper understanding of how animals see the world, our engagement with animal welfare research and legislation provides insights into how to bring about meaningful, scientifically valid improvements in animal protection and the practical and effective management of animals in our care.
Graduates have gone on to work in both practical and research roles that involve the management, welfare, training, and conservation of companion, farm, and wild animals.
Some graduates choose to continue their studies at Master’s or PhD level at the University of Lincoln, including our MSc in Clinical Animal Behaviour.
I have recently accepted a job offer as an animal trainer at Mars Petcare.
I was able to use practical sessions and assignments from modules as examples in my interview.
Emma, Animal Behaviour and Welfare, Class of 2023
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent  qualifications to include 40 points from Biology or Psychology.
BTEC Extended Diploma in Animal Management or Applied Science*: Distinction, Merit, Merit (*not all modules are accepted).
BTEC Diploma in Applied Science accepted alongside other qualifications.
Please contact our Admissions team for further information (admissions@lincoln.ac.uk).
T Level in Science accepted: Merit.
(Health or Health Science are not accepted).
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points, including 40 points from 15 credits in Biology or Psychology.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall to include a Higher Level in Biology or Psychology.
GCSE's:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English, Maths, and Science.
Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.
For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Science Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes:
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/course/sfysfyub/lifesciences/
96 to 112 UCAS Tariff points.
This must be achieved from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent Level 3 qualifications, to include 40 points from Biology or Psychology.
A Level: CCC to BBC to include a Grade B in Biology or Psychology
BTEC Extended Diploma in Animal Management / Applied Science considered: DMM
(Please include units on application)
T Level in Science: Merit Overall
(Health or Health Science not accepted)
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 96 to 112 UCAS points to be achieved from 45 Level 3 credits, including 40 points from 15 credits in Biology or Psychology.
GCSE's: Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English, Maths and Science.
For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Science Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes: https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/course/sfysfyub/lifesciences/

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/eqsabwum:
4 years
D791
The course aims to help students develop the knowledge and skills needed to understand animal behaviour and welfare, working, for example, with insects, reptiles, birds and mammals.
This MBio programme includes an additional research-intensive final year, which can lead to further research and employment opportunities.
Optional study abroad year
Available with a Science Foundation Year
*Guardian University Guide 2025 (out of 18 ranking institutions)
In the first year, students can develop a solid foundation in animal anatomy and physiology, cell biology, genetics, captive animal management, and animal behaviour.
These themes are developed further in the second year through the study of specialist subjects dealing with animal behaviour, health, and disease.
In the third year, core modules focus on pure and applied aspects of animal behaviour and welfare.
During the final year, students participate in an MBio research project.
The project provides the opportunity to contribute to high-impact research across a variety of research areas.
Final year modules also focus on developing research skills further with workshops in research techniques.
These combine demonstrations with hands-on work in-lab or in-field.
Students will also have the opportunity to develop their ability to communicate scientific knowledge effectively, in different contexts, different formats and to different recipients.
The module focuses on the development of transferable skills that are applicable both professionally and to research projects, within the programme of study and beyond.
The skills will be relevant to the broad life and environmental sciences and will allow students to strengthen their proficiency primarily in these areas: scientific writing and communication skills, research data analysis and presentation, professional and career skills.
This module comprises a research project for the MBio suite of programmes.
The project is supervised by a member of the Life Sciences academic staff and provides the opportunity to contribute to high-impact research across a variety of research areas.
The projects are set within one of the School's research groups and can be enhanced by research workshops and transferable skills offered in the accompanying modules.
Projects present the opportunity of work towards generating a scientific article of publishable quality.
This module centres on workshops in research techniques which are delivered by supervisors of research projects.
Workshops will be delivered approximately fortnightly throughout Semesters A and B.
The workshops are split into three broad research areas: Animal Behaviour, Cognition and Welfare; Biomedical (including general Biochemical and Cellular), and Evolution and Ecology.
Workshops combine demonstrations with hands-on work in-lab or in-field.
Students are offered a choice of workshops from an extensive list of options, and the write up of eight of these will form the basis of assessment.
112 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications to include 40 points from Biology or Psychology.
BTEC Extended Diploma in Animal Management/Applied Science*: Distinction, Merit, Merit.
(*dependent on modules studied).
Please contact our Admissions team for further information (dmissions@lincoln.ac.uk.
T Level in Science:  Merit (Health or Health Science are not accepted).
Access to Higher Education Diploma:  45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 112 UCAS Tariff points, including 40 points from 15 credits in Biology or Psychology.
International Baccalaureate: 29 points overall to include a Higher Level 5 in Biology or Psychology.
GCSE's:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English, Maths and Science.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/ .
________________________
104 to 120 UCAS Tariff points.
A Level: BCC to BBB to include a Grade B in Biology or Psychology
BTEC Extended Diploma in Animal Management / Applied Science considered: DDM
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 104 to 120 UCAS points to be achieved from 45 Level 3 credits, including 40 points from 15 credits in Biology or Psychology.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/anianiub:
3 years (4 years with Foundation Year)
Subject to Revalidation
W270
Animation and Visual Effects at Lincoln offers an introduction to the innovative world of animation and visual effects through moving image, digital visualisation, and contemporary narrative.
The course enables students to develop into creative animators and artists with the flexibility to practise their craft in a variety of media.
It covers a range of skills, including the fundamentals of animation, storytelling, performance, design, drawing, 3D modelling, 2D and computer-generated animation, compositing, animation theory, and the production of short films.
The Lincoln School of Film and Media has had success at the Royal Television Society awards.
In 2019, student film Papier won Best Animation at the awards.
The animation was made by students Tabitha Lay, Emily Leaning, Katie Thomas, Natasha Ray, and Charlie Bartlett.
Student animations Harlem Nocturne and Uplifted were also nominated in the Best Animation category at the awards.
This programme is also available with an Arts Foundation Year, which can provide an alternative route of entry onto the full degree programme.
Find out more at https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/course/afyafyub/ .
Access industry-standard facilities and equipment
Take part in study trips and overseas visits to exciting destinations
Learn from staff with industry experience as film, television, and video game
Take part in industry competitions and award schemes
Work collaboratively with students across multiple disciplines
Subject area ranked in the top 20 overall in the UK*
*Complete University Guide 2025 (out of 83 ranking institutions)
This course aims to provide a thorough grounding in classical animation principles as well as an introduction to digital techniques for animation and visual effects.
Life drawing forms an integral part of the programme, combined with developing narrative, character design, and animation techniques.
Students are encouraged to participate in various stages of production, such as character animation, art direction and lighting, digital compositing and effects, post-production techniques, and production management.
In the final year, they can work as part of a team to produce a short film that sets the premise for their personal showreel.
Industry practitioners are part of the teaching team on the course including film, television, and video games animators.
This module is designed to introduce students to the basic principles of animation.
Through a series of exercises that explore the techniques used to animate a basic sequence, the learner is introduced to the fundamental concepts behind all animation.
This module will introduce students to contemporary digital methods and software tools used for producing 3D CGI and animation.
This module offers the chance for students to engage in the design process for animation.
This includes idea generation, character design, background design, prop design and colour systems.
This module delivers fundamental learning and skill development in the area of Drawing for Animation.
Life drawing is an essential skill required for animation and will be used in this module to help develop proficiency in gesture, observation, fluidity, rhythm, tempo, and emotion.
Students will have the opportunity to explore the art of drawing and delve into costumes, characters, and lighting to express their creativity.
They will learn to depict movement, emotion, and gestures competently and effectively.
Additionally, students will develop observational drawing skills, including still-life studies and the basics of perspective.
This module outlines the important developments that have occurred within the field of animation since its conception in the late 1800s and traces the theories, debates and movements that have steered the medium, from early pioneers to current practitioners.
This module will address three main aspects of animation production; story, character and film language.
The module is based on a model of learning that enables students to explore past, contemporary, short and long character driven narratives, story format, structure, plot thrusts and character development.
This module explores the creation of a narrative through a typical animation production workflow.
There will be focus on narrative elements to help with the construction of a short piece.
Students will be introduced to a range of films within a chosen theme which are used to promote understanding of film language and the construction of a short scene or moment.
This module will address two important aspect of production design in 3D animation: character and set construction with an emphasis on visual storytelling.
The module is based on a model of learning that incorporates research on visual reference, artististic and technical skills and design principles in problem-solving contexts.
The character animation module develops a professional skill level in animation required for the production environment.
This module aims to challenge students through the further development of physical believability within their animation through a more detailed understanding of staging, timing and weight.
The student will also gain an understanding of acting techniques in order to develop personality within their characters and gain an understanding of the relationships of screen acting and performance within professional character animation.
The drawing for animation module is intended to develop a professional drawing skill set for production level animation.
This module aims to develop critical thinking and analysis with an emphasis on self-directed study, to prepare learners for the dissertation module at level 6.
The emphasis of this module is on the tools of research, including primary and secondary forms, and how vital these are in informing a body of critical work.
Students will apply the tools of research to an essay proposal, showing evidence of critical analysis and including a literature review, which will enable them to progress to their dissertation module.
The Industry Placement Year is an exciting opportunity for students to take a year out of formal study to gain real-world experience in the creative industries.
Whether you’re looking to build industry connections, develop professional skills, or explore career options, this year will give you a full-time, hands-on experience within an arts, cultural, or creative organisation.
This year is a collaborative experience between you, your employer, and the University—ensuring that you get the most out of your time in a professional setting.
The Dissertation module underpins the theory already outlined at level 5 to enable students to research and write their own dissertation paper on an animation topic of their choice.
The module aims to prepare students for the creative and professional challenges of bringing a conceptual idea to the stage of feasible project proposal, which can be presented to a client, employer or commissioner.
Within this module, students have the opportunity to take forward the work created and developed in pre-production, to form the central element of the production.
Students may negotiate their time, referring to the plan produced in pre-production, to form small cohesive teams, reflective of how a production would be structured in a professional animation practice.
The module is based on a model of learning that incorporates knowledge, skills and design principles in problem-solving contexts.
Whilst maintaining a focus on the established techniques and processes of digital compositing using industry standard compositing tools, asset handling practices and how they may be used in specific animation processes and workflows, students will adopt a learning process which enables them to approach problems and offer solutions that are appropriate, distinctive and adaptable.
The aim of this module is for students to apply the skills and knowledge they have gained during their studies to create a final year professional portfolio to show future employers.
For this course assessment is 100% by coursework in each year.
Assessment methods include practical work, written assignments, and reviews of their own creative outputs.
Each term includes advisory progress reviews.
All studio modules are assessed on both studio production and supporting research presentation, with varying weightings.
Luma Street by D.
Escobar, A.
Horsepool, S.Brierly, A Stokes, and A Kirkwood.
Watermill by Abigail Cooke.
Featherless by Mathew Dame and Ngou-Yin Wong.
Students on this course have the opportunity to take part in study trips and overseas visits.
Recent destinations have included the Anime Festival in Tokyo; Annecy International Animated Film Festival in France; the Walt Disney Studios and Jim Henson Studios in Los Angeles; NBC; the University of California; and Warner Bros.
Studios.
Those who choose to participate in optional field trips are expected to cover the cost of their travel, accommodation, and general living expenses.
Any trips included within a compulsory module, such as a visit to an animation or VFX studio in previous years, are fully-funded.
I was able to secure a role as a Junior Animator on the acclaimed LEGO video games series at TT Games, before I even graduated.
I wouldn't have been able to do this were it not for the phenomenal guidance and expert tuition I received at the University of Lincoln.
Thaxnay Kapdee
BA (Hons) Animation
Students can access specialist industry-standard facilities and equipment, including sound design and digital film production facilities, dedicated studios, workshops, Mac and PC suites, a render farm, and gallery space.
All Animation and Visual Effects students currently have free access to Adobe Creative Cloud software for the duration of their studies via our media and design labs.
Additional material costs will depend on the mediums you choose to work in.
This degree aims to equip graduates for careers in animation and computer games artistry, and as 3D artists who work in visual effects, broadcast, commercial production, and visualisation.
Our graduates have secured jobs with leading practitioners across the animation industries including TT Games, Tandem Films, Lupus Films, Double Negative, Cinesite and Framestore CFC.
Lincoln graduates have worked on films such as The Tiger Who Came to Tea, Ethel and Ernest, The Snowman and the Snowdog, The Jungle Book, Man of Steel, Inception, Wonder Woman, and the featurette We're Going on a Bear Hunt.
GCSE's:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English .
For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Arts Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes:
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/course/afyafyub/
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent level 3 qualifications.
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
GCSE's:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English.
For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Arts Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes: https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/course/afyafyub/
Students participating in optional field trips are expected to pay for the cost of their travel, accommodation, and general living expenses.
Any trips included within a compulsory module are fully funded.
Additional material costs depend on the mediums you choose to work in.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/phaphaum:
B234
Pharmaceutical Science encompasses a range of scientific disciplines, introducing students to the exciting world of drug discovery, development, and management.
Our aim at Lincoln is to produce passionate pharmaceutical scientists who are adept in addressing the healthcare challenges of the future and are well prepared for careers as leaders in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries.
The MSci Applied Pharmaceutical Science programme begins by offering an insight into the structure, function, and mechanisms of drugs; how different drugs can act on the human body; and how their potentially lifesaving effects can be harnessed safely.
During the programme, students will have the opportunity to lead on projects solving real-world problems that the pharmaceutical industry is currently facing.
At Lincoln our academic staff include experienced researchers and practitioners.
This innovative programme and curriculum is closely aligned with the pharmaceutical industry and has been developed with employer input to produce high quality work-ready graduates that are actively sought by the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries.
Subject area ranked 2nd for student satisfaction in the UK*
Links with hospitals, pharmacists, and healthcare professionals
Aligned with the needs of the pharmaceutical industry
Visits pharmaceutical companies to learn from industrial scientists
Take part in research alongside academics
Lectures from visiting scientists
*Guardian University Guide 2025 (out of 42 ranking institutions)
The first year introduces students to the core subjects that are fundamental to pharmaceutical science, such as chemistry, cell biology, human anatomy, and disease.
Students can then progress to examining the analytical methods relevant to drug development, medicine delivery, immunology, pharmacology, and toxicology in the second year, where they also explore key research techniques.
The third year introduces more advanced subjects as well as the regulatory and ethical standards that apply to industry professionals.
In the final year, students can use the knowledge they have gained in the previous years to lead projects which aim to solve problems currently experienced in the pharmaceutical industry, and have the chance to work alongside an experienced academic on an independent research project.
There are also opportunities for students to take part in research alongside academics in order to develop their knowledge, experience, and enhance their skill set.
The course is taught through lectures, seminars, laboratory-based practical classes, and lectures from visiting scientists from the pharmaceutical industry.
Students can then progress to the second year where they examine the different drug analytical methods, drug discovery and development techniques, medicine formulation and delivery, immunology, pharmacology, and toxicology.
This module aims to provide a fundamental understanding of the chemistry required to understand the structure, development, and mode of action of drugs and medicines.
Students can learn about functional groups, bonding, and kinetics and thermodynamics with a focus on drugs and medicines.
This module aims to provide a global overview of health and disease in order to understand the opportunities and challenges from a pharmaceutical sciences perspective.
Students can learn about some of the biggest health challenges as defined by the WHO by studying the prevalence, epidemiology, and aetiology of some of the top 10 causes of death by communicable and non-communicable disease.
They can also learn about the environmental, cultural, and socioeconomic factors which influence mortality rates.
From a pharmacological and pharmaceutical perspective students can learn what drugs are available to treat these diseases, how they work, and their method of delivery.
They will also consider what opportunities and challenges there are for the development of new drugs taking into account global need, cost, and availability to all.
Human Anatomy and Physiology provides an overview of the anatomical structure and physiology of the human body.
It is intended to explore the role of the nervous and endocrine systems in the physiology of stress its role in homeostasis.
The module is also designed to enable students to identify and understand the function of human bones, muscles, and joints and provides an overview of the anatomical structure and physiology of the heart, lung, cardiovascular, and respiratory systems.
It is intended to explore the components of the blood and immune system and their various functions, as well as enabling students to identify the anatomy and understand the physiology of the kidney, urogenital, and digestive systems.
This module covers what makes a successful drug, the basics of drug discovery and development and utilisation.
The concepts of pharmaceutical science are taught along with the types of drugs, their formulation, and delivery.
This module aims to develop the key skills required to work in the Pharmaceutical Science industry such as, statistics, mathematics, data handling, ethics, and critical analysis.
Case studies from the pharmaceutical sector will be used to highlight the key advantages of having an understanding of all the elements of the programme especially these key skills.
This module is designed to provide students with the underpinning knowledge related to the analytical process, which is later applied to further modules in the programme.
Secondly, it introduces the theoretical principles, instrumentation, automation, and application of the principal separation techniques.
Thirdly, it presents an essential suite of analytical tools utilised for inorganic analyses and speciation.
This module covers the most advanced techniques in analytical chemistry and their use, focusing on category A techniques providing structural information and as such utilised for unequivocable identification.
The aim of the module is to provide students with the opportunity to develop the advanced knowledge required to support level 3 modules, and to develop the practical skills and independent thinking necessary for all future practical applications.
This module brings together the pivotal aspects of the Drug Discovery and Development process, from the point the drug is first conceived through to the final clinical trials and market launching: "from concept to bedside".
The skill set and knowledge base is varied, but the module is designed to lead the student through the process by presenting the different aspects of Drug Discovery and Development according to their sequence in the process.
This module aims to integrate the process of drug development in relation to the way in which a dosage forms are formulated and delivered to the target.
Learning will be in the context of examples of dosage form, drug delivery route and underlying formulation, particle design, physical chemistry, and colloid science.
This module is concerned with the study of the mechanisms by which drugs interact with biochemical, cellular, and physiological systems.
The module aims to:
- provide an introduction to key pharmacology principles
- provide a detailed knowledge of the mechanisms of actions of selected drugs
- develop a critical appreciation of the importance and relevance of pharmacology in the treatment of diseases
- develop an understanding of the principles of toxicology and drug overdose
The module provides an overview of medical microbiology including bacteria and viruses, both through study of the biology of specific microorganisms, but also through the study of diseases of a variety of body systems.
The module considers the transmission of infectious disease, including a discussion regarding situations of medical environments, and control and treatment of infectious diseases.
Pharmaceutical Science is a multidisciplinary programme with many different sciences and skills pulled into one discipline and this module is designed to bring all learning together from single discipline modules and highlight the relevance to the pharmaceutical industry.
This module will advance understanding and application of key skills required to work in the Pharmaceutical Science Industry such as, statistics, mathematics, data handling, ethics and critical analysis.
The University has a strong commitment to providing academic programmes with high vocational relevance, which is maintained through working links with local, national and international organisations and, in particular, through student work placements.
The Placement Year aims to give students a continuous experience of full-time work within an organisation.
It should be a three-way co-operative activity between employer, student and University from which all parties benefit.
It is more than simply obtaining work during a gap in study – work placements should enable students to experience at first hand the daily workings of an organisation while setting that experience in the broader context of their studies.
The Placement Year constitutes a work placement during an academic year, funded by full-time paid employment taking place between Level 2 and Level 3.
The minimum duration of placement is 39 weeks.
Students wishing to undertake the work placement year must successfully complete the Level 2 of their programme.
All students on the Placement Year as part of their full-time undergraduate study will remain enrolled with the University during the period of placement and receive support.
Students originally enrolled on 3 year programmes wishing to transfer to the 4 year programme must do so before the start of their placement, should gain the consent of their funders, where appropriate, and advise the University of their intention before the September enrolment.
This module studies the cutting-edge of advanced drug delivery and nanomedicine, an area that sits at the interface of multiple scientific disciplines.
The knowledge and skills gained will be highly applicable to future employment within the pharmaceutical industry and academia.
Key is the understanding of how the body interacts with drug delivery vehicles and how this anatomical knowledge can be applied to the design of new more efficient drug carriers.
By understanding the immunological basis of how toxicity evolves, this further optimises understanding of safety in the structural design of these systems.
This module develops the student's understanding of pharmacology and therapeutics and enables them to apply that knowledge to analyse pharmacological data and to find solutions to pharmacology-based problems.
It reinforces key concepts taught in year 2 on pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics while developing the student's knowledge of the molecular basis of drug action and the design and development of new drug entities.
This module covers the regulations that surround the pharmaceutical industry, from drug registration to laboratory, clinical, and manufacturing standards.
Furthermore, this module explores the regulatory and ethical environment of drug development with emphasis on the regulatory agencies in the USA (FDA), EU (EMU), and the UK (MHRA).
This module explores novel therapies including biologics, nucleic acids, gene therapy, and personalised medicines and dissects their potential use in the future.
It will also explore the part genetics can play in the clinical use of these novel medicines and the impact it can have.
Within this module students will explore the challenges that occur around the world within the pharmaceutical field and how the industry is looking to overcome these challenges.
Some of the areas that will be covered include: counterfeit medicine, medicine fraud, alternative medicines, natural products, green pharmaceuticals, infrastructure, and transport of medicines.
As technology evolves at a rapid pace, this module aims to cover the essentials of cutting edge methods for analysis and delivery and taking into account the problems and issues surrounding manufacturing of active pharmaceutical ingredients.
In this module students have the opportunity to undertake an independent programme of research under supervision from a member of staff.
It provides students with an opportunity to demonstrate original and critical thought, as well as to build practical and project-management skills.
A wide range of subject expertise exists within the School, and students are expected to select a project that is relevant to their programme of study.
Under the guidance of a supervisor, students can review the literature, identify a hypothesis or hypotheses, and design a programme of research to test their hypotheses.
They will be expected to manage the project, including obtaining relevant ethical approval and conducting a risk assessment.
They will collect and analyse data, recording their activities in a lab notebook.
Projects can be conducted in the laboratory or field, as appropriate for their field of study, use mathematical modelling or use pre-collected data to test hypotheses via meta-analysis.
The project will be written up in the format of a scientific paper following closely the style of a key journal relevant to their area of study, or as a thesis.
Biological assays are one of the most important tools in preclinical research.
They enable researchers to identify early in the drug discovery and development pipeline whether a test compound or biologic has the desired effect.
This module has been specifically designed for you to develop a working knowledge of high throughput bioassays commonly used by the pharmaceutical industry.
This will be achieved through a series of lectures, seminars, workshops, and practicals provided by both academics and industrial scientists with assay specific expertise.
This module is designed to allow students to explore the processes of developing a medicine and the challenges posed by this process.
Students will consider how the drug can be formulated, manufactured and delivered to the target site with the correct dosage.
Students will consider the differences in processes between small molecule and biologic drugs and how the challenges in each case can be potentially solved.
Within this module, students will explore the planning, management and analysis of the pre-clinical and clinical testing process of drug development.
Students will investigate the best approaches for analysing novel pharmaceuticals and their safety, and how they are examined within the human body.
Students will evaluate current approaches and discuss possible improvements or adaptions to enhance the process, reduce animal testing by use of the 3 'R's
Projects present the opportunity of working towards generating a scientific article of publishable quality.
This module comprises a research project for the MSci Pharmaceutical Science degrees.
The project will be supervised by a member of academic staff and provide the opportunity to contribute to research across a variety of research areas.
The projects will be set within one of the school's research disciplines and be offer the opportunity to work alongside researchers within the school and university.
The MSci Pharmaceutical Science module placements are designed to provide students with the opportunity to develop their professional skills by spending time within a relevant workplace.
Students will have the opportunity to work with an industrial partner on a project and gain experience in the pharmaceutical industry.
This module will allow students to continue building contacts within the industry in which they wish to work.
This modules covers what makes a successful drug, the basics of drug discovery and development and utilisation.
This module will aim to develop the key skills required to work in the Pharmaceutical Science industry such as, statistics, mathematics, data handling, ethics, and critical analysis.
This module will aim to integrate the process of drug discovery and target selection in relation to therapeutic area and how drugs are formulated and delivered to the target.
Learning will be in the context of examples of drugs, from discovery to their registration or attrition.
Provision of this option supports the educational aims of the School of Pharmacy and enhances the distinctiveness of its degrees at Lincoln.
Study Abroad is a year long module which enables students to spend a year studying abroad at one of the University’s approved partner institutions.
Upon their return, as part of the assessment for this modules, students are required to critically reflect upon their experience of living and studying in a different cultural environment and the skills acquired.
This module looks at advanced aspects of pharmacology, aiming to build an understanding of drug-target engagement in relation to therapy, as well as drug metabolism and pharmacokinetics.
This module covers the regulations that surround the pharmaceutical industry, from drug registration to laboratory, clinical, and manufacturing standards
The module will culminate with you developing your own assay and a trip to a pharmaceutical company to see high-throughput assays work in practice.
Examples of assessment methods that are used include coursework, such as written assignments, reports or dissertations; practical exams, such as presentations, poster presentations, and written exams, such as formal examinations or in-class tests.
There may be opportunities to visit pharmaceutical companies and to learn from industrial scientists and leading experts through a programme of guest lectures.
You may also have the opportunity to undertake placements.
Placements can range from a few weeks to a full year if you choose to undertake an optional sandwich year in industry (where available).
A Placement Year Fee is payable to the University of Lincoln during this year for students joining in 2025/26 and beyond.
Students are expected to cover their own travel, accommodation, and living costs.
You are encouraged to obtain placements in industry independently.
Tutors may provide support and advice to students who require it during this process.
The time I spent in the laboratory enhanced my research and manual skills in the areas of synthetic and analytical chemistry.
Magda Krupczak
BSc (Hons) Pharmaceutical Science
This course aims to prepare graduates for a career in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries.
Roles exist in industrial, commercial, and academic research, and in development roles within the medical and food industries.
Graduates may also opt to undertake careers in scientific sales and marketing, science journalism, or education.
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels to include 32 points from Biology, Chemistry, or Physics.
International Baccalaureate: 28 overall including Higher Level 4 in Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
BTEC Extended Diploma:  Distinction, Merit, Merit in Applied Science.
T Level: Merit in Science accepted.
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points, including 32 points from 15 credits in Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
GCSE's: A minimum of three at grade 4 or above, to include English, Maths and Science.
We will may consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/course/sfysfyub/
This must be achieved from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent Level 3 qualifications, to include 32 points from Biology , Chemistry or Physics.
A Level: BCC to BBC to include a Grade B in Biology, Chemistry or Physics
BTEC Extended Diploma in Applied Science: DMM
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 104 to 112 UCAS points to be achieved from 45 Level 3 credits, including 32 points from 15 credits in Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall to include a Higher Level 4 in Biology , Chemistry or Physics.
For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Science Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes: https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/course/sfysfyub/

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/arcboaub:
Clearing offers from 64 UCAS tariff points.
3 years
Up to 6 years
K100
The historic city of Lincoln has roots in Roman Britain, providing an inspiring context in which to explore architecture and learn about heritage and archaeology in relation to contemporary architectural design.
The BArch (Hons) Architecture degree aims to prepare students for a career in the exciting field of architectural practice, placing a strong emphasis on design and creativity.
The University is part of the well-established RIBA Mentoring Scheme, giving third-year students the opportunity to gain real-world experience with professional architects.
The programme is validated by the Royal Institute of British Architects and prescribed by the Architects Registration Board as providing exemption from Part 1 examinations, which are required to register as an architect in the UK.
The course forms the first stage of a three-part programme of education and training for aspiring architects.
The University of Lincoln also runs RIBA / ARB Parts 2 and 3 programmes, and all three parts are required to register as an architect in the UK.
There is a strong emphasis on design and creativity and the course aims to prepare students for a global career in the exciting field of architectural practice.
We are designers working to create imaginative and practical building designs.
The Lincoln School of Architecture and the Built Environment is a cooperative, multidisciplinary environment for sharing ideas, which aims to support students in discovering their own design approach.
This course is validated by the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA) as providing exemption from Part 1 examinations.
Course validated by the Royal Institute of British Architects
Specialist facilities and bespoke studios
Benefit from the RIBA student mentoring scheme
Connections with regional and international companies
Architecture at Lincoln is ranked 2nd in the UK for graduate prospects*
*Out of 55 ranking institutions in the Complete University Guide 2025
On this course, students can study the underlying concepts of architecture and the ways in which a building can meet the needs of its occupants and of society.
They are encouraged to learn important drawing techniques, alongside computer-aided design (CAD), and hands-on modelling.
Histories and theories of architecture are introduced in the first year, along with design theory, processes and practices, building construction, environmental design.
In the second and third years, students are able to work on a series of independent and collaborative projects, and to shape their learning in line with their interests.
These projects aim to prepare students for work in the industry.
The programme aims to bring out your creative potential, explore design processes, and lay a foundation of cultural and technical knowledge.
Students have the opportunity to participate in practical explorations of materials and construction techniques which can lead to adventurous designs.
The course is designed to address the social, theoretical, and contextual issues of living in the contemporary city.
Design projects aim to build confidence in responding with imagination, humanity, and concern for the environment.
As an architecture student, you will spend time in dedicated studio session during which you will develop your knowledge and skills.
You will undertake projects through a blend of theoretical, practical, individual and collaborative methods.
These include, lectures, tutorials, seminars, workshops and directed studies.
This may be augmented by site and live project visits when possible.
From the University of Lincoln to jobs in their field, here's how our Architecture graduates valued their time at Lincoln.
Find out what our graduates enjoyed, what they miss about University and how their course prepared them for their careers.
The Design 1 stream establishes the creative and analytical foundations upon which all subsequent architectural and interior design learning is built.
Through a series of hands-on studios and workshops, students immerse themselves in “thinking through drawing,” exploring two- and three-dimensional form, space and composition.
By moving between full-scale (1:1) body studies and small-scale interventions, learners develop an intuitive understanding of scale, proportion and human experience.
Emphasising discovery-based inquiry, the stream teaches design as a rigorous research process situated in its built-environment context.
Students learn to analyse briefs, sites and precedents; to apply design theory, methods and environmental strategies; and to experiment with spatial composition.
The Interpret 1 stream grounds your creative explorations in rigorous research and critical thinking.
Beginning with a broad historical survey, you will examine pivotal architectural and design movements, then gradually narrow focus to regional case studies and seminal precedents.
Seminars will introduce you to methods of academic inquiry—source analysis, comparative study and thematic critique.
Delivered alongside the Design and Realise streams, Interpret ensures your first-year projects are informed by a deep understanding of the forces that shape our built environment.
The Realise 1 stream invites you to test and refine your design concepts through visual and material enquiry.
You will begin with analogue sketch-based studies then translate these into small-scale physical models and simple digital prototypes.
Anchored by enquiry-based learning and delivered in parallel with the Design stream, Realise ensures that conceptual visions are immediately subject to hands-on validation, fostering a rich feedback loop between idea and execution.
Students have the chance to undertake design projects set by the tutor to explore principles, theories, methodologies and concepts.
Appropriate working methods are introduced and guided by the tutor.
The module is delivered using independent or linked design projects, one of which, because of the level of detail required, may be relatively small in scale.
Projects may include housing, landscape, public buildings or the conversion of existing buildings.
Defined products are required at intermediate stages and at the end of each project.
This module introduces theories about interior, architectural and urban space.
The course recognises that the role of the designer includes not only the considerations of the formal qualities of the designed object or environment in relation to its immediate audience but also encompasses a broader set of responsibilities to society as a whole.
This module is designed to be the culmination of the second level architectural design studies.
It acknowledges a number of different approaches within architectural design.
Students are expected to complete a medium-scale design project that demonstrates an integrated approach to design, technology and communication.
This aims to provide a vehicle for preparing a professional CV and portfolio of work.
Students have the opportunity to develop awareness of the principles and practise of sustainable development and environmental design.
This includes the chance to develop an understanding materials, technology, energy usage and social factors.
This module provides an opportunity for students in the Lincoln School of Design & Architecture  to spend a semester in Year 2 studying at one of the University’s partner institutions.
This opportunity has both academic and personal development dimensions.
In academic terms, during the semester abroad students undertake models that are equivalent to 60 credit module and content at one of the UoL partner institution in semester B.
Participation in study-abroad also offers unique opportunities for personal student development in the wider sense.
Although students will be supported through the application process by the Module Co-ordinator and colleagues at the partner institution, much of the responsibility for organising the time abroad rests with the student.
Study abroad offers the opportunity for students to develop graduate attributes, a global mindset and transferrable skills as exercise resilience, flexibity and open mindedness when adapting to and working effectively within a different academic culture and environment.
Students must submit an application to the School discuss why they wish to participate in a study period abroad.
Students have the opportunity to demonstrate the management of two independent, self-managed research projects.
They are expected to take full charge of their programme of study and become increasingly empowered to investigate, interrogate and challenge as they progress.
Students are expected to develop an outline design into a fully resolved and detailed design for exhibition in the School’s Degree Show.
The Comprehensive Design Projects are the culmination of the course, and this module can help to demonstrate students' skill in managing and resolving the complexities of contemporary architectural design within a range of perspectives, issues, and interests.
This module aims to provide students with the opportunity to develop the technical knowledge and skills useful in-practice.
Students have the opportunity to develop a holistic understanding of how technology integrates with architectural design and how this relates within a comprehensive design project.
The Outline Design Project is a vehicle for the student to develop an individual design approach from initial research, through design explorations to a coherent outline building design.
In today’s ever changing and highly competitive business environment, if an architectural practice is to survive, it is essential that architects have an understanding of the construction industry and the value its contribution can make to the UK economy.
Architectural practice can no longer rely upon designing interesting buildings alone, but must do this in an efficient manner.
This can only be achieved by being conversant with contemporary business management strategies, coupled with an understanding of project management within the UK construction industry.
Students have the opportunity to develop an understanding of the principles of construction related to human habitation.
This includes construction methods, material properties, legislation, climate and human comfort.
Students can record preliminary ideas, sketches, analysis, design development, and technical research in their portfolios for discussion at tutorials and presentations.
Selected elements of the design can be developed in detail.
This module is designed to give students the opportunity to understand the processes that are commonly used to organise and support study, research, analysis and studio design projects in architecture.
It will also explore core communication skills appropriate for a career in architecture.
This module is designed to covers the development of architecture, art and design from ancient times through to the present.
Visual research, analysis and presentation techniques can be developed alongside text-based academic techniques.
This module is optional for undergraduate students within the College of Social Sciences and Humanities.
Study Abroad enables you to study at one of the University’s approved partner institutions.
During the time spent abroad, you can share classes with local students and study modules at the partner institution which have been approved in advance by the University.
As many partner institutions support internships, you may choose to combine study with work and/or a period of volunteering.
The way students are assessed may vary for each module.
Examples of assessment methods that may be used include coursework, such as written assignments, reports and projects, or reviews of creative output.
Assessment Feedback
The University of Lincoln's policy on assessment feedback aims to ensure that academics return in-course assessments to students promptly - usually within 15 working days of the submission date.
Methods of Assessment
This course is validated by the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA) as providing exemption from Part 1 examinations, which are required to register as an architect in the UK.
Architecture at Lincoln is part of the well-established RIBA student mentoring scheme.
Third-year students are paired with architects in the Midlands region and can gain experience over a series of days, providing opportunities for site visits to observe how architects work.
The Lincoln School of Architecture and the Built Environment has connections with regional and international companies, such as Lincoln City Council, Laing O'Rourke, and Foster + Partners.
These can offer the opportunity to get involved in placements, live projects, site and factory visits, and events.
Students may gain a hands-on understanding of construction, fabrication, procurement processes, manufacture, and materials.
Furthermore, RIBA East Midlands can offer opportunities for continued professional development events.
My time at Lincoln has enhanced the meaning of architecture, allowing me to understand how it impacts people and place.
The teaching has helped me to analyse opportunities and constraints in a much more rigorous way.
The collaboration with my tutors gave me the support to allow me to succeed.
Callum Pell
BArch (Hons) Architecture
Explore our 2022 end-of-year degree show in 3D.
These degree shows provide the chance for our students to showcase their work to the wider university and the public.
As part of the course, you have an opportunity to be part of the Lincoln Architecture and Design Society which organises study and recreational events.
The society is supported by academic staff and the Students' Union.
The Society usually organises two trips per year - one regional and one international.
There may be costs associated with trips.
In addition, there is the opportunity to take part in the well-established Erasmus programme, which enables you to study abroad as part of your course.
Please note that students are responsible for their own travel, accommodation, and general living expenses while undertaking study abroad.
The Lincoln School of Architecture and the Built Environment offers specialist facilities for students to develop their creative and practical skills in preparation for their future career.
Students from the Lincoln School of Design and Architecture benefit from a dedicated CAD Lab of high-end PCs equipped with CAD software such as the industry standard Autodesk Revit Building Information Modelling (BIM) Software.
The BArch (Hons) Architecture forms the first stage of a three-part programme of education and training for aspiring architects.
The University of Lincoln also runs RIBA/ARB Parts 2 and 3 courses, which students must successfully complete to become a registered architect.
Lincoln graduates work all over the world in public and private practice, in planning, housing, and design-based professions.
During the course, mock interviews take place to help you prepare for job interviews.
There may also be the opportunity to receive portfolio advice.
A Levels: 112 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A levels or equivalent qualifications.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent.
International Baccalaureate: 29 points overall
A combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTEC, EPQ, etc.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 (C) or above, which must include English and Maths.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry.
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
Standard workshop induction costs are usually covered by the University, as are some initial printing and material costs.
However, depending on the media/materials chosen by the student, there may be additional material and printing costs incurred.
Mandatory field trip costs are covered by the University, but optional study visits which may include international trips or a student exchange programme, are at the student’s own expense.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/banfinub:
3-4 years
N300
From the City of London to Singapore, Frankfurt to New York, the banking sector offers lucrative and rewarding careers for graduates with the skills and drive to succeed in a highly competitive global industry.
Lincoln's Banking and Finance degree is aimed at those who aspire to a career in range of industry roles including securities analyst, financial or investment manager, or as a private, commercial, or investment banker.
During this course, students are encouraged to explore how the economy works, how decisions are made, and how financial systems and capital markets operate in an international context.
Many academics teaching this programme possess a blend of research and practical expertise in the field of banking and finance, helping to ensure that students are well-prepared for a career in this industry.
Hands-on experience during a work placement year
Real-world experience of the Stock Exchange
Key software including Stata, SAGE, SPSS, and FT.com
Staff with practical experience of banking and finance
Finance at Lincoln is ranked in the top 10 in the UK for academic support*
*National Student Survey 2024 (out of 91 ranking institutions)
Throughout the course, students have the opportunity to learn the fundamentals of economic principles, accounting and finance, and business data analysis.
They then progress to study more advanced financial and banking management.
The final year provides students with the flexibility to customise their degree to their specific interests, with a range of optional modules available.
The support from tutors, lecturers, and the programme leader was unmatched.
The programme equipped me with all of the necessary knowledge and skills to begin my career as a finance manager at Procter and Gamble.
Matteo Di Rossi
BSc (Hons) Banking and Finance, Finance Manager at P and G UK
This module aims to provides the non-Economist with with an amalgam of economic theory and contemporary comment which prepares them for a further study in economics.
There is a grounding in basic tools and concepts.
It provides ideas about labour markets and market structure, the market, inflation and deflation, growth and stagnation, and balance of payment issues and exchange rates.
Statistics for Finance and Economics aims to develop an appreciation and understanding of the theoretical and practical issues in the application of statistical methods in business decision making.
It supports students’ preparation for using econometrics software/ packages (Excel and Stata) that are essential for students who wish to pursue further studies or a professional career in economics, finance, or related fields.
In the last couple of decades the banking industry was at the heart of dramatic changes, including deregulation, financial innovation and globalization.
This module is designed to examine these developments and their effects on the banking sector.
The module continues by providing students with the opportunity to analyse contemporary issues in banking that emerged as responses to these global developments.
These issues include the provision of credit and in particular credit rationing, securitization of debt, and competition and mergers in the banking sector.
This module is designed to introduce the principles and methods for statistical and econometric modeling.
It provides students with the opportunity to develop the fundamental skills of using econometrics software packages that are essential for students who wish to pursue further studies or a professional career in economics, finance or related disciplines.
Real-world data can be used in this module to help students to develop problem-solving skills.
This module focuses upon the primary statement of roles which participants in the financial landscape provide.
These roles are central to the idea of money and role which it plays in the modern landscape in terms of the flow of funds as a framework.
The module aims to provide a brief introduction to the major participants; banks, pension funds, insurance companies and the management role of funds which they have.
Econometrics: Cross-sectional and Panel Data builds on Fundamentals of Econometrics and looks at further and advanced topics in econometric analysis.
The module aims to further students' econometric modelling skills by using real-world empirical applications in the fields related to economics, finance, and rural and urban economics.
The topics covered will reflect the development of contemporary applied econometrics.
These topics include cross-sectional and panel data regression, instrumental variables regression, experiments and quasi-experiments, and discrete choice model.
Econometrics: Time Series Data seeks to provide an understanding of recent advances in econometrics for testing theories in economics and finance.
It can provide technical skills necessary to pursue a wide range of empirical research in economics and finance and offer the opportunity to develop some advanced time series skills.
This module aims to provide an introduction to decision-making in different environments.
After a short review of the rational choice paradigm, the module seeks to explore intertemporal decision problems and Expected Utility Theory (EUT).
Building on EUT, students will apply their knowledge of game theory to develop different solutions to a strategic situation of their choice.
Students studying this module can explore the theories, knowledge, and financial tools that entrepreneurs need to start, build, and harvest a success venture.
The module also outlines how and where successful entrepreneurs obtain financing.
The way in which you will be assessed may include coursework, written and practical exams, portfolio development, group work, or presentations.
The University of Lincoln aims to ensure that staff return in-course assessments to students promptly.
Full-time students have the option of a year-long professional practice placement after the second year, providing real-world experience.
To help give our students insight into industry and prepare them for their future careers, we host a number of guest lectures across the programme.
Previous lectures have been delivered by guests from companies such as, J.P.
Morgan, Volkswagen, Curve, Handelsbanken, and Natwest Group London, and covered topics such as placements in finance, private banking and wealth, and graduate careers in banking.
Students on the programme are given the opportunity to practise real-life trading at a simulation event.
During the event , delivered in partnership with Amplify Trading, you get the chance to understand and experience different roles and practices within the trading sector, such as buyers, investors, asset managers, and hedge funds.
The course gave me a well-rounded skill set to enter the real world of finance, including skills in financial modelling, valuation techniques, financial planning, corporate finance, econometrics, and banking.
Nathan Smith
BSc (Hons) Banking and Finance, Trainee Financial Planner at Mazars
A Banking and Finance degree can be a pathway to senior management positions in the private, public, and commercial sectors.
Graduates may choose to pursue a career in financial management, stock brokerage and trading, investment management, commercial banking, private banking, wealth management, or investment banking.
Our alumni have gone on to work at prestigious financial institutions and corporations such as J.P.
Morgan, PwC, St.
James's Palace, Mazars, de Vere and partners, P and G, and Mondelēz International.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit .
GCSE's: Minimum of three to include a grade 6 in Maths, a 4 in English and one further GCSE graded at 4 or above.
For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page:
https://www.lincoln.ac....andacademicstudyskills/
96 to 104 UCAS Tariff points.
A Level: CCC to BCC
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 96 to 104 UCAS points to be achieved from 45 Level 3 credits.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/biochmub:
C700
Biochemistry offers an understanding of the biological and chemical processes that allow life to thrive, giving us the tools we need to solve key challenges in cell biology, pathology, pharmacology, physiology, and genetics.
Advances in the field have revolutionised our knowledge of how biochemistry works and the mechanisms that underpin a wide range of cellular processes.
This enables us to respond to human health problems and diseases by rationally designing new strategies and drugs as treatments.
Our BSc (Hons) Biochemistry degree takes a research-centred approach to teaching and learning, providing the opportunity to work closely with academics on collaborative research projects.
The course examines the chemistry of life at a molecular level and reflects the University's expertise in pharmacology, biomedical science, biology, and biotechnology.
Students have the opportunity to develop skills in practical laboratory techniques, data interpretation, critical analysis, computational skills allied to biochemistry, and scientific writing.
Subject area is ranked 3rd in the UK for student satisfaction*
A range of optional modules to choose from
Optional overseas field trip
*Out of 91 ranking institutions in the Complete University Guide 2025
This programme introduces students to a range of topics, enabling them to widen their knowledge of biochemistry across a range of allied subjects.
These include molecular biology, immunology, pharmacology, and biotechnology.
The degree offers optional modules to allow students greater choice in their academic studies.
Modules have been developed to cover topics relevant to current or developing fields allied to the life sciences.
During the first year, students can study a breadth of core topics, including biochemistry, physiology, genetics, and cell biology.
The second year allows students to add specialism to their degree.
Students can study molecular biology, applications of biochemistry in clinical situations, and detailed analysis of biomolecules and enzymology.
Optional topics include pharmacology, immunology, and human disease.
In the final year, students undertake an individual research project which provides the chance to develop investigation skills, in addition to studying key themes such as biotechnology, microbial biochemistry, protein structure and function, and clinical biochemistry.
This module provides students with the opportunity to develop an understanding of the necessary basic theoretical and conceptual principles required in analytical chemistry.
It offers a platform upon which students can build as they develop their analytical skills and understanding in later stages of their programme.
Furthermore, students are encouraged to develop the practical skills necessary for all future analytical practical applications.
Medical Biochemistry is designed to provide students with an overview of biochemistry at the cellular level.
Cellular and molecular systems that have evolved to sustain cellular functions in the context of a multicellular organism will be highlighted through example diseases as well as delivering an understanding of how key biochemical pathways can be targeted for therapeutic purposes.
Microbial Biochemistry will introduce students to fundamental aspects of molecular biochemistry and microbiology through the study of antimicrobials.
The module will introduce key concepts including Koch’s postulates, Ehrlich’s magic bullet and the 20th century era of antibiotic discovery from Fleming onwards.
This module is designed to explain the underlying chemistry behind biological reactions in the context life processes.
It will build on key concepts taught in the biochemistry components of first year modules by addressing key chemical principles that relate to the functional properties of biomolecules in organisms; the advanced chemistry of lipids, carbohydrates, proteins, and nucleic acids along with small molecules and metal-ions.
Techniques will be introduced that play a role in determining the structural and functional properties of biological molecules.
Protein structure will be evaluated through taught classes and interactive computer practicals.
Enzyme mechanism and kinetics will be taught highlighting the role of key amino acids in catalysis.
The module provides an overview of the main principles of clinical biochemistry and its role in diagnostics and monitoring of patients.
It enables students to discuss endocrine disease as well as liver, respiratory, gastrointestinal, vascular, bone and renal disease.
It will also cover key techniques used in diagnosis and clinical research.
Molecular biology is of critical importance when understanding biological systems.
This module is designed to provide students with an insight into the techniques used and applied by molecular biologists in a number of specific contexts.
The module will explore the origins of molecular life on Earth, before examining the molecular control of eukaryotic replication, transcription and translation.
The focus will then move to in vitro experimentation including DNA isolation, amplification, sequencing and manipulation; before looking at applications of molecular biology and how they can be applied to our understanding of population genetics and health and disease
This module aims to provide real-world context to the theoretical knowledge of biochemical properties, processes, and techniques.
Via the delivery of theoretical background material, supported with real life case studies and problem based learning, students will be guided through how fundamental understanding of biochemistry can be applied in a variety of ways to solve problems and develop products.
The module will also highlight the external pressures to industrial and academic exploitation of biochemical fundamental knowledge, by considering ethical, regulatory, funding, and commercial limitations and opportunities.
Substantial experimental design and data handling training will be incorporated to prepare the students for innovative application of knowledge, and evaluation of their own work and other research.
This module builds on the skills and information gained earlier on in the biochemistry programme.
The module follows a logical theme from “gene” to “the active site interrogation of an enzyme”.
It takes students on journey explaining how to assess and clone a gene for protein expression, purify and evaluate its activity, crystallise it, and finally use mutagenesis and structural biology to dissect the enzyme’s mechanism.
The module has been designed to develop practical skills and techniques to enable students to work in molecular biology and protein research / production laboratories.
The module focuses on problem solving and experimental design in tandem with practical expertise in these advanced areas.
This module introduces current topics and areas of research allied to biochemistry.
The major focus of this module is on the use of biochemical knowledge and advancements that are being utilised to address modern day issues.
In particular, the module will explore the central importance of biochemistry in relation to molecular biology, disease processes, biotechnology, and the pursuit of fundamental knowledge regarding cellular processes.
In particular, students can explore the central importance of biochemistry in relation to molecular biology, disease processes, and the pursuit of fundamental knowledge regarding cellular processes.
Our understanding of human disease is constantly evolving and this increased knowledge is presenting new opportunities to better therapeutically target and treat these diseases.
As such, this module will focus on investigating the latest cutting-edge treatments being used by the NHS now and into the future to treat disease, discuss the ethics associated with bringing these into practice, evaluate the successfulness and limitation of these approaches, and explore where future development is needed to fully realise their potential.
This module provides an overview of the role of cellular pathology in the diagnosis and monitoring of malignant and non-malignant diseases.
This module intends to evaluate the normal and abnormal histology and ultra-structural features of human cells and tissues.
The module enables students to appraise malignant and non-malignant cytology, and critically evaluate the role of multiple research and diagnostic techniques; ie.
electron microscope and immunocytochemistry in pathological differential diagnosis.
The module aims to enable students to understand and critically evaluate different methodologies of cancer treatment, how cancer drug resistance evolves, and investigation of the role of personalised medicine for optimum patient treatment/outcomes.
The module provides an overview of the applications of genetics and its ethical and social considerations with an introduction to ethical philosophy.
This module also intends to discuss genetic counseling, diagnosis of genetic disease, carrier detection, and pre-symptomatic testing.
The module enables students to evaluate population screening, and community genetics for single gene and chromosome disorders and also the ethical and social considerations of the understanding of the human genome, the treatment of genetic diseases, gene therapy, and the ethics of experimental animal use.
This module is designed to introduce the student to the fundamentals of forensic anthropology.
Students will be introduced to forensic anthropology before embarking on a series of lectures and practical sessions covering human osteology and the methods used to estimate a biological profile; sex, ancestry, age, and stature estimation.
This module will also introduce the student to the various pathological conditions and traumatic injury affecting human bone including post-mortem damage.
This module aims to equip the students with the fundamental knowledge and skills to participate in forensic anthropological analysis by preparing a case report on a skeleton.
Destinations may vary, but have previously included the cloud forests of Ecuador, the Mankwe Wildlife Reserve in South Africa, and Molise in Italy.
Students on this programme are able to undertake an optional overseas field trip as part of their third year, enabling them to study animals and plants in the wild.
Destinations may vary, but have previously included the cloud forests of Ecuador, the Mankwe Wildlife Reserve in South Africa, and Molise in Italy.
Biochemistry-related research at Lincoln includes structural and molecular biology, DNA metabolism and drug discovery.
Final-year student research projects have previously included overcoming drug resistance, proteins involved in neurodegeneration, and new proteins for biofuel production.
The lecturers made the content easy to understand and interesting, while the practical sessions were a fantastic opportunity to see the theory learned in lectures applied in a real-life situation.
Laura Rutledge
BSc (Hons) Biochemistry
Career paths for Biochemistry graduate exist in industrial, commercial, and academic research, and in development roles within the medical, food, pharmaceutical, and biotechnology industries.
Graduates also go on to careers in scientific marketing and journalism, or education.
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent to include 40 points from Biology or Chemistry.
BTEC Extended Diploma in Applied Science*: Distinction, Merit, Merit,.
(*not all modules are accepted).
BTEC Diploma Applied Science acceptable with other qualifications.
T Level in Science accepted: Merit (Health or Health Science are not accepted)
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points, including 40 points from 15 credits in Biology or Chemistry.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall to include a Higher Level in Biology or Chemistry.
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages:
This must be achieved from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent Level 3 qualifications, to include 40 points from Biology or Chemistry.
A Level: BCD to BBC to include a Grade B in Biology or Chemistry
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 96 to 112 UCAS points to be achieved from 45 Level 3 credits, including 40 points from 15 credits in Biology or Chemistry.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall to include a Higher Level 5 in Biology or Chemistry.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/biochmum:
4 Years
C701
Our Biochemistry degree takes a research-centred approach to teaching and learning, providing the opportunity to work closely with academics on collaborative research projects.
Subject area ranked 3rd in the UK for student satisfaction*
Students can study molecular biology, applications of biochemistry in clinical situations, and detailed analysis of biomolecules.
Optional topics include, pharmacology, immunology, and human disease.
In the third year, students undertake an individual research project which provides the chance to develop investigation skills, in addition to studying key themes such as biotechnology, microbial biochemistry, protein structure and function, and clinical biochemistry.
112 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications to include 40 points from Biology or Chemistry.
BTEC Extended Diploma in Applied Science*: Distinction, Merit, Merit.
Please contact our Admissions team for further information admissions@lincoln.ac.uk.
T Level in Science: Merit.
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 112 UCAS Tariff points, including 40 points from 15 credits in Biology or Chemistry.
International Baccalaureate: 29 points overall to include Higher Level grade 5 in Biology or Chemistry.
A Level: BCC to BBB to include a Grade B in Biology or Chemistry
BTEC Extended Diploma - Applied Science accepted depending on modules  : DMM
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 104 to 120 UCAS points to be achieved from 45 Level 3 credits, including 40 points from 15 credits in Biology or Chemistry.
International Baccalaureate: 30 points overall to include a Higher Level 5 in Biology or Chemistry.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/biobioub:
C100
Biology is the science of life itself, exploring the structure, function, growth, origin, evolution, and distribution of living organisms.
The BSc (Hons) Biology degree at Lincoln covers a diverse range of subject areas while allowing students to develop their own specialisms.
The course includes opportunities for overseas field work to study living organisms in their natural environments.
Students join a vibrant academic community in the Department of Life Sciences and can benefit from research-focused teaching by academics.
There is an emphasis on practical work, with students conducting their own projects alongside academics and practising researchers.
Students can participate in a residential field trip in the UK, enabling them to study animals and plants in the wild.
There is also an overseas field trip available in the final year as part of the optional 'Overseas Field Course' module.
Subject area ranked in the top 10 overall in the UK*
Fully funded residential field trip in the UK
*Guardian University Guide 2025 (out of 87 ranking institutions)
Throughout this course, students are able to study the many facets of biology, develop an understanding of research methods, and apply their learning in the laboratory and in the field.
The first year of this degree introduces students to the different elements of biology, including evolution, ecology, metabolism, microbial biochemistry, and genetics.
In the second year, students can study a range of topics including molecular biology, animal health and disease, animal behaviour, clinical biochemistry and diagnostics, immunology, human ageing and disease, and conservation biology, alongside training in data handling and analysis.
In the third year, students can select from specialist areas including veterinary parasitology, applied biochemistry, cancer epidemiology and pathology, 21st century medicine, blood sciences, plant-animal interactions, soil biology, global change biology, animal cognition and welfare, palaeobiology and behavioural ecology, in addition to undertaking an individual research project to develop independent investigation skills.
Teaching at Lincoln places a strong emphasis on students engaging actively with their studies from the outset.
Students are encouraged to think of themselves as researchers and producers who can make a contribution to their field of study.
Teaching and learning methods include lectures and practical classes, which cover the core subject matter and technical skills, supported by tutorials and seminars which allow students to develop, analyse, and present their own findings.
Practical classes in the laboratory and field allow students to practise project management and data gathering, handling, and interpretation skills.
Students on this programme learn from academic staff who are often engaged in world-leading or internationally excellent research or professional practice.
Contact time can be in workshops, practical sessions, seminars or lectures and may vary from module to module and from academic year to year.
Tutorial sessions and project supervision can take the form of one-to-one engagement or small group sessions.
There is also opportunity to take part in external visits and fieldwork.
The University of Lincoln provides outstanding lectures delivered by experienced and welcoming lecturers.
Their passion for the subject reignited my love for Biology and motivated me to achieve my academic goals.
Shaun Betts
BSc (Hons) Biology
This module aims to provide a broad overview of plant form and function by reviewing the key structural characteristics of cells, tissues, and organs in a range of plant species.
The module investigates the diversity of plant form and the evolutionary history of plant life; emphasis is placed on the adaptations of plants to their environment.
It focuses on the relationship between anatomy and the mechanical role of cells, tissues, and organs.
On completion of this module students would be expected to have a broad understanding of form and function in plants, key elements of plant-animal and plant-fungal co-evolution / interactions, and an appreciation of the diverse range of structures and tissues utilised by humans.
The module provides an overview of how different systems in the body are key for maintaining homeostasis within the body and how alterations to these systems that occur as we age can lead to a variety of different blood disorders, haemostatic disorders, cancer and neurological disease.
The module will also introduce students to the use of laboratory techniques in the investigation of these diseases from both a theoretical and practical point of view and demonstrate how these are being used to help diagnose and distinguish between these different disorders.
The blood sciences module will provide a deep understanding of this emerging, mixed-disciplinary field incorporating areas including clinical biochemistry, haematology and blood transfusion.
This module will develop knowledge of the role of clinical biochemistry and immunology laboratories in the functional diagnosis and monitoring of endocrine function, allergy and autoimmunity.
In addition, you will gain an understanding of the different haemopoietic systems within the body and the techniques used within NHS haematology laboratories to monitor these.
A range of diagnoses that are enabled through the analysis of blood will be explored, including erythrocyte disorders, haemoglobinopathies, coagulation disorders and leukaemia.
We will also discuss the role of transfusion in both treatment and management of diseases.
Specific focus will be placed on the importance of blood group matching, donor selection, and blood processing/testing.
Furthermore, we will also discuss immunohaematology and techniques used for detection and identification of antigens and antibodies; to enable students to evaluate adverse transfusion effects as well as the transfusion-transmitted diseases.
This module will consider human-caused environmental change that affects a substantial part of the globe and biological systems.
Biological responses to these human induced changes will be considered in terms of how organisms, species, and communities may acclimatise, adapt, or change.
Specifically, we will consider how organisms can respond genetically and phenotypically, and how and why communities may change in their species and functional composition.
After consolidating understanding of the causes of, and biological responses to, global change, we will consider what these impacts mean for ecosystem structure and function, the development of novel ecosystems, and approaches for conservation and ecosystem management under global change.
This module will cover a range of differing causes of global change e.g.
biological invasions or urbanisation, but content will be flexible to remain relevant to current and emerging challenges.
This module will build on the knowledge and understanding of microbiology and animal disease gained previously at L2.
The module aims to develop students’ understanding of the One Health approach to human and veterinary diseases, including protecting animal and human populations from infectious agents recently introduced through cross species transmission.
At the interface between Earth and Life Sciences, Palaeobiology is the study of all aspects of the biology of extinct biota and their relations to the physical environments in which they lived.
The discipline documents and explains patterns and processes governing past Life, and is key to our understanding of evolution in deep time and up to the present.
Fossils are the currency of Palaeobiology.
Their unique and fundamental contribution is their ability to provide measurable models of anatomical, functional, and ecological change over millions of years of evolution.
Natural selection theory predicts that organism diversity results from species interacting with each other and with their environments.
Consequently, fossils are the natural “time capsules” preserving the historical record of faunal and floral successions on our planet.
This record unravels the pathways through which traits observed in extant organisms are selected for, elucidates models of biodiversity rises and falls, and casts light on the complex relationships between the geosphere and the biosphere.
Palaeobiology tackles some of the most challenging and engaging topics of modern biology, including the emergence of biodiversity, patterns of recovery, and expansion of ecosystems and species in the aftermath of profound crises (such as mass extinctions), and the interplay between originations and extinctions in shaping the Tree of Life.
This module aims to enable students to comprehend the thrust and scope of fossil-based research, progressing from basic observations to formulation of complex macro-evolutionary inference.
Palaeobiology is eminently interdisciplinary, absorbing concepts and methodologies from numerous other fields and providing tools and knowledge of wide use to other biologists, particularly those interested in tempo and mode of evolution and the comparative method.
This module provides a critical insight into the study of the biological diversity of soils, including their ecological and functional roles, to understand about best management and conservation practices.
Students can learn about key issues affecting important soil processes and the methods for measuring and managing soil biodiversity.
Examples of assessment methods that may be used include coursework such laboratory exercises or reports, case studies, problem-solving exercises, essays, poster or oral group presentations, short answer and structured questions, and project reports.
This is in addition to written exams, such as formal examinations or in-class tests.
Biology students have previously undertaken industrial placements with global businesses including Thermo Fisher Scientific and Fortrea.
While you are on an optional placement in the UK, you will be required to cover your own transport, accommodation, and meals costs.
Studying Biology at the University of Lincoln was a life changing opportunity, especially being able to conduct an overseas project in Ecuador.
This course has given me the ability to explore numerous career possibilities in a friendly and forward-thinking university.
Jessica Dagley
This course is designed to equip graduates with the skills necessary to enter a range of scientific and non-science-based roles in agriculture, biotechnology, animal sciences, and environmental protection.
A wide range of career paths are available to biology graduates including research and development, technical roles, science communication and publishing, and scientific sales and marketing.
Some students choose to continue their studies at postgraduate level.
Biology Alumni Topaz recently visited the University to talk to us about how her degree in Biology helped her career as a fundraising manager for The Elephant Family charity.
ttps://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
BTEC Extended Diploma - Applied Science accepted depending on modules: DMM

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/biobioum:
C101
The MBio Biology degree at Lincoln covers a diverse range of subject areas while allowing students to develop their own specialisms.
This MBio includes an additional research-intensive final year after the three-year BSc.
This may lead to further research and employment opportunities.
There is also an overseas field trip available in the third year as part of the optional 'Overseas Field Course' module.
An optional year abroad is available for full-time students.
This can provide the opportunity to do research in a novel environment and to study local plants and animals.
Students may bring personal items of clothing and travel equipment, some of which may be specialised for the environment they are travelling to, and recommended medicines and travel toiletries such as anti-malaria medication, vaccinations, insect repellent, and sunscreen.
Access to Higher Education Diploma:  45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 112 UCAS Tariff points, including 40 points from 15 credits in Biology or Chemistry.
International Baccalaureate: 29 points overall to include a Higher Level 5 in Biology or Chemistry.
_______________________
BTEC Extended Diploma - Applied Science accepted depending on modules : DMM

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/bmdegrub:
Subject to Validation
H780
Biomedical engineering is a multidisciplinary field that applies engineering principles to biology, medicine, and healthcare.
From development of medical devices to creating advanced digital healthcare technologies, the work of biomedical engineers is to provide engineering solutions that improve human health.
This research-informed programme aims to develop industry-ready graduates with the ability to conceive, design, implement, and deliver sustainable solutions for modern society.
Project-based learning is a key feature of the programme.
Students can undertake team-based engineering projects to address societal needs in the first and second years.
Students will also have the opportunity to deliver an engineering solution with the consideration of environmental, social, and economic sustainability.
Regular visits from professional engineers and industry experts
Opportunities to spend an additional year in industry
Extensive project-based learning
Industry links offer opportunities for placements, mentoring, and recruitment
Specialist purpose-built facilities and equipment
In the first year, students can study the common foundations of engineering principles, human anatomy, and the physiology of the human body.
In the second year the focus moves to specialised biomedical engineering topics, while the third year offers career focused modules designed to support students in meeting the needs of future employers.
Topics include digital prosthetics, biomedical robots for personal care, medical implants, medical imaging, medical ethics, clinical trials, and regulations.
Extra-curricular activities are also available through Lincoln Innovation Hub to help students think, innovate, and build while stimulating their innovation and entrepreneurship skills.
Students can access a range of support to help develop their skills, ideas, and ventures at any stage of development and across a wide range of disciplines.
The course is delivered through a combination of classroom and lab-based sessions, design challenges, and business innovation and entrepreneurship activities, to help develop the core skills that students will require as future engineers.
Students can also benefit from regular visits from professional engineering and industrial experts, offering an insight into the needs of industry.
Many sectors of engineering require high levels of computer literacy and the ability to write computer programs for problem solving is highly desirable.
In learning the fundamentals of computer programming, logical thinking and problem solving, skills can be developed and coding techniques learnt, that can support the study of modules in forthcoming years.
This course delivers the concepts of structured computer programming and lab time is allocated for implementing these concepts.
Students are  provided with opportunities to plan, write, and debug their own computer programs.
All engineers must be familiar with design strategies, methods of assessing design proposals, approaches to reducing uncertainty, formal communication techniques, and the industrial and legal standards in which they fit.
Mechanical Engineering students can independently learn and demonstrate the fundamentals of mechanical technical drawing and computer aided design (CAD), while Electrical Engineering students will independently learn and demonstrate the fundamentals of electrical drawing and CAD.
Electrical and Mechanical engineers will then coalesce to form interdisciplinary groups who will produce an electro-mechanical design solution which meets a practical objective and considers the commercial, economic, social and environmental implications via a broad critique of the state of the art.
An understanding of the basic principles and many of the important practical applications of electronic and electrical engineering is now essential to practitioners of other disciplines, especially mechanical engineers.
The aim of this module is to provide a foundation in electrical engineering and electronics without being over complicated or cluttered with too-rigorous and exhaustive mathematical elements.
The module can be divided into two topics:
Statics and Mechanics:
The primary aim of the study of engineering mechanics is to develop students' capacity to predict the effects of force and deformation in the course of carrying out the creative design function of engineering.
As students' undertake the study of solids and forces (first statics, mechanics, then dynamics) they can build a foundation of analytical capability for the solution of a great variety of engineering problems.
Modern engineering practice demands a high level of analytical capability, and the study of mechanics can help in developing this.
Dynamics:
The study of dynamics gives students the opportunity to analyse and predict the motion of particles and bodies with and without reference to the forces that cause this motion.
Successful prediction requires the ability of visualise physical configurations in terms of real machines ( in addition to knowledge of physical and mathematical principles of mechanics) and actual constraints and the practical limitations which govern the behaviour of machines.
The selection of materials and manufacturing method is an integral part of the engineering design procedure.
The purpose of this module is to introduce the fundamental properties of engineering materials through an understanding of the atomic and molecular interactions within the material.
Students are introduced to the technology of manufacturing processes and how the selection of manufacturing processes are influenced by, and subsequently affect, material properties.
A good mathematical grounding is essential for all engineers.
The theory developed in this module aims to underpin the other engineering modules studied at level one.
Wherever possible, mathematical theory is taught by considering a real example, to present students the mathematical tools they might need for the science they follow.
Solutions are considered by both analytical and numerical techniques.
The syllabus for this module can be divided into two topics:
Thermodynamics:
Thermodynamics is an essential part of engineering curricula all over the world.
It is a basic science that deals with energy interactions in physical systems, and the purpose of this module is to study the relationships between heat (thermos) and work (dynamics).
This module presents a range of real-world engineering applications to give students a feel for engineering practice and an intuitive understanding of the subject matter.
Fluid Mechanics:
Fluid Mechanics is the branch of applied mechanics that is concerned with the statics and dynamics of liquids and gases.
The analysis of the behaviour of fluids is based upon the fundamental laws of applied mechanics, which relate to the conservation of mass-energy and the force-momentum equation.
However, instead of dealing with the behaviour of individual bodies of known mass, Fluid Mechanics is concerned with the behaviour of a continuous stream of fluid.
For this reason, Fluid Mechanics is studied separately to other mechanics modules.
Due to the similarity of the mathematical techniques, Fluid Mechanics are studied with Thermodynamics.
This module aims to provide an overview of the anatomy and physiology of the human body.
The module is designed to help students to identify and understand the function of human bones, muscles, and joints.
It will also provide an overview of the anatomical structure and physiology of the heart, lung, cardiovascular, and respiratory systems.
This module aims to introduce students to biomaterials, including the properties of natural materials and the behaviour of artificial materials when implanted on or in contact with the human body.
Students are also introduced to the reaction of materials to implantation in the body; the reaction of the body to the presence of implanted materials; the uses of polymers, ceramics, metals and composites as biomaterials; concepts of biocompatibility and bioacitve methods of assessing these; and basic applications of biomaterials in the body and the resultant interactions.
The purpose of this programme of mathematical study is to give students the opportunity to become more competent in calculations using a range of mathematical tools.
The content builds upon that delivered in the first year, and gives students the opportunity to extend their analytical skills by introducing more advanced topics that may form part of the modern engineers skill set.
This modules introduces the basic knowledge required to understand, design, and work with basic electronic circuits and the basic principles underlying the process of electronic engineering.
No previous electronics experience is assumed and the module proceeds via a sequence of lectures supported by labs designed to introduce practical electronics.
The aim of this module is to deepen students’ understanding of engineering in practical applications.
Students will investigate the design process for mechanical, electrical or control components/systems and undertake analysis of the same.
These strands of the module are brought together in a design challenge, which will address real-world challenges facing industry.
This will allow students to apply and extend their creative design skills and obtain practical experience of creating sound conceptual solutions to address real design problems within an industrial context.
This module provides an understanding of the core concepts of mechanics such as mass, force, velocity, acceleration, work, energy, and power.
Students can develop the necessary skills to apply the fundamental laws of mechanics such as Newton’s laws and conservation of energy to perform quantitative analysis of human body motion and equilibrium.
The term mechatronics integrates mechanical engineering with electronics and intelligent computer control in the design and manufacture of products and processes.
As a result, many products which used to have mechanical functions have had many replaced with ones involving microprocessors.
This has resulted in much flexibility, easier redesign and reprogramming, and the ability to carry out automated data collection and reporting.
A consequence of this approach is the need for engineers to adopt an interdisciplinary and integrated approach to engineering.
The overall aim of this module is to give a comprehensive coverage of topics, such as analogue and digital signals, digital logic, sensors and signal conditioning, data acquisition systems, data presentation systems, mechanical and electrical actuation systems, microcontroller programming and interfacing, system response and modelling, and feedback control.
Students may make extensive use of Simulink and a MATLAB support packages based an Arduino board, which allow for graphical simulation and programming of real-time control systems.
The module serves as an introductory course to more advanced courses such as Measurement and Testing, Sensors, Actuators and Controllers, and Embedded Systems.
This programme of study will extend the ideas and skills introduced at Level 1.
Students have the opportunity to learn how to carry out strength and deflection analyses for a variety of simple load cases and structures.
Students have the opportunity to understand the simplifications used in such analyses.
This course demonstrates the role of stress analysis and failure prediction in the design environment.
The Placement Year constitutes a work placement during an academic year, typically between Levels 2 and Level 3, though it may take place between levels 3 and 4 of an MEng programme.
Students wishing to undertake the work placement year must successfully complete Level 2 (and 3 if applicable) of their programme.
It should be a three-way co-operative activity between employer, student, and University.
Work placements enable students to experience at first hand the daily workings of an organisation while setting that experience in the broader context of their studies.
In this module students study a range of signal and image processing techniques and learn how they can be used to analyse a range of biomedical signals and images.
Whilst learning general and specific analysis techniques, students can also gain insight into relevant biomedical background and many of the engineering principles that underlie the operation of key devices that are used to record biomedical signals or generate biomedical images.
The module will also discuss engineering issues in the wider context of exploiting engineering for health-care, including relevant ethical and economic issues and multidisciplinary collaboration and communication.
The purpose of this module is to introduce the full Navier-Stokes equations and give the physical significance of each term in the equations.
Students are introduced to CFD techniques appropriate for practical engineering applications, (the finite volume method), and they have the opportunity to gain practical, hands-on experience of commercial CFD packages.
This module offers students the opportunity to model industrial fluid dynamics and heat transfer problems.
The individual project aims to provide students with a learning experience that enables them to carry out independent research, and to integrate many of the subjects they have studied throughout their degree.
Students are expected to plan, research and execute their task while developing skills in critical judgement, independent work and engineering competence.
Students have the opportunity to gain experience in presenting and reporting a major piece of engineering work, of immediate engineering value, at a level appropriate for an honours degree student.
The module aims to equip students with a depth of innovation and entrepreneurial theory which forms a foundation of knowledge.
Students study the various theoretical aspects of both foundation and contemporary aspects of entrepreneurship and enterprise in order to self-appraise their own personal environment.
The module examines modern day success stories of contemporary businesses in engineering and manufacturing and traces their origins and reasons for successful accomplishments.
It aims to reflect the entrepreneurial learning process which informs how entrepreneurs learn from previous mistakes.
The module offers a generic examination of the principles of business studies, entrepreneurship, and entrepreneurial activity, within a variety of settings of SMEs and regional and rural settings.
The aim of this module is to introduce a range of computational methodologies to analyse biological data, make new predictions, and support the understanding of biological mechanisms.
The module content will include an introduction to data types and databases and relevant methods of bioinformatics.
The overall aim is to support a comprehensive understanding of computational applications for data analysis and simulation providing multiple examples.
The purpose of this module is to introduce students to the theory and practice of the finite element method, with applications in stress
analysis, heat transfer and general field problems in order to complement other modules in these subjects.
Students will become aware of the capabilities and limitations of the finite element method and the practical problems involved in successfully modelling engineering structures and components.
This module is intended to introduce students with the fast growing area of consumer electronics design.
Apart from interface and size issues, portable consumer electronics present some of the toughest design and engineering challenges in all of technology.
This module breaks the complex design process down into its component parts, detailing every crucial issue from interface design to chip packaging, focusing upon the key design parameters of convenience, utility and size.
This is an introductory module in the designing and evaluation of prosthetics (artificial limbs), and orthotics (braces and splints).
The module provides a basic grounding in the theory and application of the broad engineering sciences that underpin prosthetic and orthotic practice.
The module aims to help students to develop a patient-centred approach to the clinical practice of prosthetics and orthotics.
The module aims to develop  knowledge and understanding of lower limb prosthetic and orthotic rehabilitation and management based on a patient-centred approach.
It will also seek to develop students’ skills in recognising and responding to the trends that shape prosthetics and orthotics.
Emphasis will be placed on practical applications in a variety of amputations and malfunctions in humans.
Design, safety consideration, and control strategies will be considered for various prosthetics and orthotics.
Assessment on the Biomedical Engineering programme focuses on measuring and assessing engineering technical and analytical skills as well as professional soft skills including oral and written communication, team working, lifelong learning, problem-solving, project management, and planning and organisation.
Students are continuously assessed throughout the course through a wide range of assessments methods including examinations, practical reports, project portfolios, individual and group presentations, individual group project work, and computer based assessment.
A sandwich option is available on this programme, providing you with the opportunity to spend a year in industry.
You are encouraged to obtain placements in industry independently, however tutors may provide support and advice to those who require it during this process.
.
Biomedical engineering represents a new area of medical research and product development, with biomedical engineers working to pave the way for new methods of helping to treat injuries and diseases.
As medicine is a field with vast numbers of specific disciplines, there are many different sub-fields in which biomedical engineers may work.
Some work to improve and develop new machinery, such as robotic surgery equipment, while others endeavour to create better, more reliable replacement limbs (or parts which help existing limbs function better, such as joint replacements).
Biomedical engineers may become involved in a multitude of different roles including the design of medical devices, modelling and simulation of human physiology and anatomy, supporting hospitals in clinical and financial governance of existing medical equipment, development of artificial organs, computer-simulated or image-guided surgery, robot-assisted surgery, development of orthopaedic implants, medical imaging, assistive technologies, and mobile and e-health.
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications to include 40 points from Maths.
BTEC Extended Diploma in Engineering: Distinction, Merit, Merit.
T Level in Engineering: Merit.
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points, including 40 points from 15 credits in Maths.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall to include a Higher Level 5 in Maths.
GCSE's:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English and Maths.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/bmsbmsub:
B940
Biomedical scientists play a key role in improving human health.
By exploring life processes in humans they lay the foundations for understanding and investigating health, disease, treatment, and prevention.
Biomedical Science at Lincoln offers a broad scientific base, taking a multi-disciplinary approach that incorporates lectures, seminars, and laboratory-based work.
The course emphasises the development of transferable skills in information retrieval, data analysis, problem solving, and critical thinking, as well as hands-on experience.
This degree is accredited by the Institute of Biomedical Science (IBMS).
Completion of a Biomedical Science degree accredited by the IBMS, together with successful completion of a portfolio of competencies after gaining six to 12 months' experience in an NHS laboratory and gaining HCPC registration are all essential steps to becoming a qualified biomedical scientist.
Our teaching team includes specialist staff from local and regional hospitals, research scientists, and pharmaceutical industry experts.
Their areas of speciality currently cover diabetes, inflammation, cancer, and neurodegenerative and cardiovascular disease.
Subject area ranked in the top 10 in the UK for student satisfaction*
Accredited by the Institute of Biomedical Science
*Complete University Guide 2025 (out of 81 ranking institutions)
The first year introduces the fundamentals of biomedical science, including human anatomy and physiology, genetics, and disease.
It enables students to begin to develop some of the skills that are vital for a practising scientist.
Students can take their knowledge further in the second year, studying pharmacology, immunology, and molecular biology, while receiving an introduction to biomedical diagnosis and its application in the study and treatment of disease.
In their final year, students can explore topics such as cancer, transfusion, and disease pathology.
They are also required to complete an individual research project.
This course is delivered through lectures, practical classes, workshops, seminars, and tutorials.
The course will also include inter-professional education and problem-based learning using case studies.
Students undertake a series of hands-on practical sessions focusing on a wide range of different techniques, including many that use the same equipment and techniques that are currently employed within the NHS, industry, and research laboratories to investigate disease and diagnose patients.
Health and Disease  provides an introduction to health and how health is disrupted by disease and disorder.
Students will apply their knowledge of anatomy and physiology to help understand the underlying aetiology and clinical presentation of key communicable and non-communicable diseases.
The forensic field course will give students the opportunity to experience first-hand the work of the forensic scientist within a national or international context.
This may take place in a country other than the UK.
Students will also familiarise themselves with the professional skills required to carry out this type of work.
Students on this course may be assessed through written assignments, unseen examinations, practical assessments, presentations, online assessments, reports, and dissertations.
Typically the course is 50% coursework and 50% exam, but some modules are coursework only.
This degree is accredited by the Institute of Biomedical Science, the professional body for those who work within the field of biomedical science.
IBMS accreditation ensures that the course meets the academic requirements for registration as a biomedical scientist with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).
In order to register as a biomedical scientist, you would need additionally to complete the IBMS registration portfolio in an approved laboratory.
Students on this course can take part in an optional overseas field trip in the third year to study local plants and animals in the wild.
Beth Williams
BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science
This degree is accredited by the Institute of Biomedical Science.
It aims to prepare graduates to work as qualified biomedical scientists on successful completion of a portfolio of competencies after gaining six to 12 months’ experience in a laboratory.
Graduates also go on to a wide range of other careers across medicine, the pharmaceutical industry, research laboratories, universities, public health, and the NHS.
BTEC Extended Diploma in Applied Science*: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent.
(Health or Health Science are not accepted)
GCSE's:   Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English, Maths, and Science.
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages for information on equivalent qualifications:
A Level: BCD to BBC to include a Grade B in Biology or Chemistry.
T Level in Science accepted: Merit Overall (Health or Health Science are not accepted)

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/bmsbmsum:
B941
*Complete University Guide 2025 (out of 96 ranking institutions).
In their third year, students can explore topics such as cancer, transfusion, and disease pathology.
In the final year, students participate in an MBio research project.
Final year modules also focus on developing your research skills further with workshops in research techniques.
This course is delivered through lectures, practical classes, workshops, seminars and tutorials.
Students on this course are assessed through written assignments, unseen examinations, practical assessments, presentations, online assessments, reports and dissertations.
The course is typically 50% coursework and 50% examinations, but this will vary from module to module with some modules being coursework only.
At Master's level, assessment is 100% by coursework.
The lab experience and transferable skills I have gained have given me the confidence to apply for PhDs and I now feel I can go on to something more challenging as I have these skills behind me.
Joe Potter
MBio Biomedical Science

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/bvsbvsub:
D300
The BSc (Hons) Bioveterinary Science degree at Lincoln gives students the opportunity to explore the science that underlies animal health and disease.
As the information which veterinarians use to treat animals often comes from laboratories, this degree combines key concepts in animal science with relevant laboratory, field, and computer analysis, helping to give students the skills to support veterinarians.
Students are introduced to the processes surrounding animal health, including life histories of pathogens and parasites, infection and immunity, preventative measures, diagnosis, and treatments.
There is the opportunity to study these issues in a range of animal species, including exotic, companion, livestock and wild animals, as well as in humans.
Students also have the option of a field trip in their final year as part of the optional 'Overseas Field Course' module.
Destinations may vary, but have previously included the cloud forests of Ecuador, the Mankwe Wildlife Reserve in South Africa, and Peniche in Portugal.
Subject area ranked 2nd overall in the UK*
Wide range of career opportunities, including further study, diagnostics, and
Optional study abroad and overseas field trips
A range of optional modules
*Guardian University Guide 2024 (out of 18 ranking institutions)
The first year of the degree introduces health and disease in the context of animal anatomy and physiology, cell biology, genetics, and biochemistry, as well as an introduction to animal behaviour and welfare.
The second year builds on this, with further specialist study of animal health and disease, also providing the opportunity for students to pursue individual interests within a wide range of topics, including animal behaviour, protection, toxicology, and clincial biochemistry.
In the final year, students may embark upon individual research projects and are provided the opportunity to travel overseas to participate in research field trips as part of the optional 'Overseas Field Course module'.
Further specialist modules including Control of Animal Disease and Veterinary Parasitology can be chosen to complete the final year.
Students undertaking research projects have access to a range of advanced facilities including equipment for cytometry and confocal microscopy.
We have access to reptiles, and to a working cattle and sheep farm which is ideal for projects, as well as microbiology and molecular biology laboratories.
There is also an element of self-directed study to this course.
This may include reading of scientific papers, watching videos to begin to understand difficult issues, or research into an area of your interest.
The course tutors are researchers and are keen to work with students to understand difficult issues, discuss issues, or offer help and support where possible.
We work closely with the farm on our Riseholme Campus, and students in the past have been able to assist with lambing.
There may also be chances to gain experiences working with reptiles in Minster House, our on-campus animal facility
Examples of assessment methods that may be used include coursework, such as written assignments, reports or dissertations; practical exams, such as presentations, performances or observations; and written exams, such as formal examinations or in-class tests.
We also do poster presentations, and a viva voce exam in the final year to help students to prepare for work interviews.
Students on this course can take part in an optional overseas field trip in the third year to study plants and animals in the wild.
Previous students have been on work placements at Pirbright, Dechra Pharmaceuticals, and the Animal and Plant Health Agency.
The absolute highlight of my time at university was the chance to take the overseas field course module.
I opted to go to South Africa, which was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.
Corinne Woodcock
BSc (Hons) Bioveterinary Science
The course is taught by our team of experienced academics, including staff at the forefront of their fields of research, such as Associate Professor Colin Butter and Dr Simon Clegg.
Staff contribute to government advisory bodies, offer industrial consultancy, publish in international journals and contribute to academic books.
The Department hosts a Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons approved Behaviour Speciality Clinic, run under the direction of one of only two current RCVS recognised specialists in Veterinary Behavioural Medicine.
This supports our internationally recognised research in companion and farm animal behaviour and welfare, behavioural consultancy, and problem behaviour management.
This course aims to prepare graduates for a range of careers in animal-related professions.
These include roles in research and development, technical support, and sales of animal pharmaceuticals, vaccines, and nutrition products, as well as in animal health, laboratory diagnostics, toxicology, forensics, wildlife parks, and zoos.
Many students continue to study at Master’s and PhD level, and some go on to veterinary medicine.
_________________ __________________________________

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/bvsbvsum:
D303
The MBio Bioveterinary Science  degree at Lincoln gives students the opportunity to explore the science that underlies animal health and disease.
The fourth year of the MBio Bioveterinary Science degree is an additional research-intensive final year, after the three-year BSc.
This is an opportunity to progress to Master's level and prepare for opportunities in competitive job markets.
Optional placement year and optional overseas field trip to locations around
The first year of the degree introduces health and disease in the context of animal anatomy and physiology, cell biology, genetics, and the biochemistry of metabolism.
The second year builds on this, with further specialist study of animal health and disease, also providing the opportunity for students to pursue individual interests within a wide range of topics, including animal behaviour, protection, toxicology, and reproduction.
In the third year, students embark upon individual research projects and are provided the opportunity to travel overseas to participate in research field trips as part of the optional Overseas Field Course module.
Further specialist modules including Control of Animal Disease and Veterinary Parasitology can be chosen to complete the third year.
Students undertaking research projects have access to a range of advanced facilities including equipment for cytometry and confocal microscopy, as well as a bioacoustics lab.
Our animal behaviour laboratory includes aquatic and reptile provision alongside an insectary.
There may also be opportunities to gain experiences working with reptiles in Minster House, our on-campus animal facility.
BTEC Extended Diploma in Animal Management or Applied Science*: Distinction, Merit, Merit.
BTEC Extended Diploma in Animal Management accepted.
Applied Science accepted depending on modules: DDM
International Baccalaureate: 30 points overall to include a Higher Level in Biology.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/busprpub:
N100
Graduates with a broad knowledge base in finance, marketing, human resources, operations, management, and economics are well-placed to embrace opportunities in a range of exciting business contexts.
Our BA (Hons) Business combines elements of all of these disciplines.
It offers students the opportunity to develop the critical-thinking, problem-solving, and analytical skills needed to enter the competitive world of business.
The course takes an international perspective to help prepare students for the global nature of modern business practice, offering the opportunity to specialise in areas of particular interest and acquire workplace experience.
Students have opportunities to complete a one-year work placement or international year abroad which will be reflected in their award title - BA (Hons) Business (with Professional Practice), or BA (Hons) Business (International Study Year).
Those who choose not to complete a placement or year abroad will receive a BA (Hons) Business award, or equivalent exit award.
Undertake real-life, industry-related projects
Business insights from visiting practitioners
Choose modules aligned to your personal interests
Graduates working at IBM, Rolls-Royce, Jaguar Land Rover, and Siemens
The course is designed to explore a variety of topics, drawn broadly from the areas of finance, economics, marketing, operations, human resources, entrepreneurship, and strategy.
The course's learning activities are aimed at developing your creativity, critical thinking, complex problem solving, and entrepreneurial thinking, alongside developing your understanding of principles and practices of business and management.
The first year introduces key elements of business, including economics, finance, marketing, business analytics, creativity and entrepreneurship, and organisational behaviour.
The second year builds on this foundation with modules designed to develop professional skills in operations management, consumer behaviour, human resources management, and innovation.
In the final year, modules are designed to enable you to practice and develop confidence in creative problem solving, enterprise, and entrepreneurship, to provide you with the mindset, knowledge, and skills that allow for success in innovation driven organisations.
In addition, you can choose from a range of modules to take your business knowledge further and develop a career specialism by choosing the subject areas aligned to your personal interests.
The aim of this foundation module is to provide students with a systematic introduction to the business environment within which enterprises of all types must operate.
It can be seen as a stand alone module or one of three explaining the micro, macro and international perspectives that can be applied.
The aim of this set is to systematically explore a range of specific issues that presents business with a set of ever-changing complex challenges.
The module aims to provide students with the experience of developing an understanding of creativity and how it drives innovative thought and fits within the context of entrepreneurial behaviour.
In addition, the module draws together both the business and economy and aims to demonstrate how both creativity and entrepreneurial values effect each other.
This module is designed to provide an introduction to basic business finance for non-specialist students.
The module explores the essential elements of business finance, which are required for a career in business, in any discipline.
The aim of this module is to enable students to be culturally agile and be able to move between different linguistic and cultural contexts and to establish strong foundations in the English language.
Students’ current knowledge will be consolidated by providing a thorough grounding in the fundamental aspects of grammar, together with a communicative approach for understanding and using the language.
An emphasis on a growing degree of independent study will be fostered.
The aim of this module is to enable students to be culturally agile and be able to move between different linguistic and cultural contexts.
This module will boost the students’ creative thinking skills and improve their ability to make decisions through enhanced concentration, multitasking capabilities, and greater listening skills which will enhance their future employment opportunities.
This module is designed to enable students to identify potential career paths, understand power, emotional intelligence, and responsibility in a professional context.
Moreover, the module can enhance the students' understanding of the graduate job market and the skills they need for meeting employer requirements and securing a job.
Assessments enable the students to map their skills and competences based on the analysis of job descriptions and practise interview and presentation skills.
In addition to lectures and seminars, the students can learn from industry guest speakers who will share their personal career journeys and provide detailed advice on specific graduate job opportunities.
Understanding how  consumers  really behave has been identified as one of the fundamental issues which serve to distinguish marketing from other disciplines.
This module explores the thoughts , feelings,  and actions of people in the consumption process.
The module is designed to equip students with the knowledge and skills to understand what consumer behaviour is, why it is important for marketers and organisations, and how to initiate customer research activities to explore the increasing complexity of customer behaviour.
The focus will be around exploring how consumer attitudes and behaviours are formed and  strategies  adopted  by marketers to influence the consumer decision-making process.
This module builds on the principles of the United Nations Global Compact and the ‘purpose’ of the Principles of Responsible Management Education, as well as the ‘essence’ of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, Vision 2050, to develop the knowledge, skills, and capabilities of students to be future creators of sustainable value for business, and to work towards an increasingly inclusive society and a more sustainable global economy.
This involves rethinking and reengineering business strategies and activities, to understand organisational constructs and influences, as well as that of their ’own agency’, to be the change that produces and secures economic, social, and environmental value for current and future generations.
This means systematically examining contemporary business, economic development, and the historic relationships with a ‘Eurocentric’ social-cultural construct within global commerce and management, to discover a fairer and increasingly viable future.
As a consequence, this module will ask students to explore and reflect on responsible management, sustainability, and ethical practice, as well as the resultant effects on global society, and the environmental costs created by human interaction as they analyse and evaluate contrasting strategies and approaches.
This will not only provide a better understanding of the challenges of responsibly managing sustainability and ethical practice but will also identify and emphasise the questions to be addressed in respect of their future management endeavours.
This module endeavours to provide an introduction to the importance of the Human Resource Management (HRM) function in an organisational context.
The module explores and examines the strategic role of HRM and its contribution to the operational aspects of the HR function to support workforce planning in light of the broader business, social and ethical context.
The module provides an important oversight for both aspiring HR practitioners and also future organisational managers.
The module provides an introduction to the underlying theories and concepts relating to the innovation process in the firm.
It clarifies the nature and definition of innovation in the form of varied types of new Activity including product and process innovation, service innovation and organisational and business model innovation.
As a result of the module students are expected to have a better understanding of the innovation process and how it might be supported in a variety of organisations.
This module  explains the gains to be made from economic integration and the globalisation process.
It examines the main patterns of trade and exchange and shows how free trade can be influenced by the government and the future risks of protectionism.
Trade is also supported by international capital markets and exchange rate determination as well as international policy coordination and these factors need to be well understood.
This module is designed to introduce students to a wide range of Operations Management topics that contribute to an understanding of organisations as systems seeking to remain viable and competitive within their environment.
This module is only for students whose first language is not English.
The aim of the module is to enable students to communicate successfully in the international business world.
The module focuses on a range of business skills that can be applied in a global context, as well as the skills and themes associated with working in a foreign country or dealing with international businesses.
The module places an emphasis on independent study.
The module aims to strengthen and consolidate existing communicative competence and introduce new skills.
Students can learn persuading, influencing, negotiating and problem solving skills.
There is the opportunity to develop a broad critical understanding of cultural issues and their impact on businesses.
Students can learn persuading, influencing, negotiating, and problem solving skills.
This module is designed to equip students with understanding and skills to help them deal with the financial issues they will face in whatever business discipline they eventually practice.
At its conclusion, students should have a solid understanding of the key elements of financial management that inform and affect the choices made by business.
Furthermore, students have a platform in the principles, models, and issues that underpin the advanced aspects of the subject area.
Business Finance Practice is concerned with the efficient and effective management of the finances of an organisation in order to achieve its objectives.
It involves planning and controlling: where funds are raised from, where funds are deployed to, and whether funds are being used effectively or not.
In many organisations, Finance is recognised as one of the major management functions alongside others such as marketing, production and human resources.
In this module, students can develop an understanding of several principles that underpin business finance as a discrete discipline.
Students are able to learn to analyse real world companies’ stock and financial performance as well as financial health.
Students can also learn to solve finance problems and provide data and information using computer technology.
This module is designed for students who are thinking of a career in the international arena.
It will be of use to anyone interested in working in multinationals or those interested in understanding how business is conducted across different cultures
This an opportunity to explore theory of leadership and teamworking through a critical management lens.
The module considers the role of structure, culture and environment on the practices of leadership and teamworking.
The module will consider power and equality in relation to leadership and team work practice.
The module provides the opportunity for students to gain analytical and practical skills which have been identified by employers as needed by graduates to make a fast start in their careers and to contribute to and to innovation and change-related projects and activities.
The skills developed in the module will increase students’ attractiveness to potential employers and enable them to make a faster impact in their careers once employed.
This module provides students with the opportunity to develop an overview of e-business by reviewing how firms run their businesses, organise operational infrastructures, share information with business partners and communicate with customers.
It explores the role of e-commerce (that is, the trading of goods and services through online systems such as e-sales and e-purchases) on market position, competition and sustainability, and encourages student to reflect on the changing nature of the relationship between the supplier and user/the human and the digital interface.
Students undertaking this module can learn how to identify, recognise, and use entrepreneurial skills, skills which are sought after throughout industry and government organisations.
The module ultimately aims to equip students with a comprehensive depth and range of entrepreneurial theory.
The module adopts a practice-based approach.
The module will explore skills associated with leadership practice and provide an opportunity to rehearse and develop these skills in a supportive and safe environment.
Participants can learn about their own behaviours and those of others and receive and give feedback to enable personal development.
This module aims to introduce the concepts, theories, and techniques of strategic management, enabling learners to develop a well informed and critical understanding of the business environment.
Students can also develop the tools and frameworks to analyse and evaluate complex, changing, and emerging issues facing 21st century organisations, help them to know and conceive how organisation can create and sustain competitive advantage over rivals in the marketplace.
Students studying this module will understand that business ethics comprises of complex ideas, applications, and interpretations about not only what is right and wrong, but also why things are considered right and wrong.
Business ethics is key part of developing responsible leadership at all levels of organisations.
This module addresses the implications of interruption to business and the issues and problems that may arise in connection with measures designed to counteract the effect of such interruption.
Students are introduced to the underlying rationale for crisis management and business continuity initiatives both from a theoretical and professional perspective.
The module examines the positioning of crisis management within an organisation’s overall strategic plan by reference to examples of good practice from organisations at home and abroad.
Students can examine the role and function of effective crisis communication during times of crisis.
Approaches to crisis management are evaluated and applied to a range of organisational case studies.
The module also explores the relationship between crisis management and risk management which is seen as an inherent part of all businesses and which is further compounded by the uncertainties with the nature of product and consumer.
This module examines the various scenaria that arise during the management of natural disasters.
It enables students to examine different ‘disaster’ situations and competing approaches to disaster management intervention measures.
The module aims to expose students to the anatomy of disaster and to reflect upon the best strategic practices for the management and control of disasters and emergencies.
The module uses real case studies to demonstrate the importance of preparedness for disaster, and the need for effective recovery and rehabilitation measures.
Students are introduced to the levels of command and the systems in place for any situation requiring major emergency or disaster management.
The module also examines the position of relief workers and victims caught up in disaster.
As such, this module analyses a range of strategic options in terms of theory and practice.
The development of strategic thinking is relevant to both those interested in uniformed and non-uniformed public sector management.
The module aims to increase students’ awareness of the nature and management of disasters, drawing on an interdisciplinary approach.
It is designed to enable graduates to engage with and relate to disaster professionals with confidence and commitment.
The module aims to enable students to gain high-level communication skills appropriate for leaders in the international business world.
The main aims are to strengthen and consolidate existing communicative competence and introduce new skills as appropriate, to apply communication skills to selected professional contexts, and to provide increasing opportunities for initiative, autonomy, and group work.
The module aims to enable students to be able to communicate information effectively within international businesses to a diverse range of audiences, presenting an organisation and its services or products in the clearest possible way to consumers, clients and colleagues.
Students can develop the skills to work successfully in a team and in a professional manner appropriate for leadership.
This module is designed to enhance students learning from their level two studies and to take their appreciation of theoretical finance into the real world of business application.
The module will aim to teach the financial skills and knowledge that will be invaluable to students whichever career they subsequently pursue.
This module is designed to enhance students' learning from Financial Management for Business 1 and to expand their thinking, application and challenge of a number of areas of corporate finance, aiming to give students a range of practical tools and understanding for their eventual roles within a plethora of different types of organisation.
The aim of this module is to provide students with a thorough understanding of global marketing, including historical perspectives, trends, and issues characterising international markets, and considers the strategic marketing implications for companies operating in a rapidly changing and dynamic global business environment.
For many organisations, the importance of a global perspective and strategy is vital to long-term success.
Competitive marketing strategy, examined in a global context, is a market-oriented approach that establishes a profitable and sustainable position for the firm against all the forces that determine industry and ultimately international conditions of trading.
The module introduces different global marketing strategies and approaches, specifically market entry strategies and the impact that macro- and micro-environments have on international operations.
Students can further develop an understanding of effective marketing communication and branding within a global context.
The major function of the module is to locate the role of Human Resource Development (HRD) function in the organisational context.
The module explores and examines strategic as well as operational aspects of the function in the light of the contemporary business environment and social context.
This module enables students to apply free thinking to contemporary situations so as to apply a conceptual environment to a number of business situations.
It examines modern day success stories of contemporary businesses, traces their origins and reasons for successful accomplishments, and reflects on the entrepreneurial learning process.
The module aims to examine how and why businesses operate, why people start businesses and others do not and finally, why some are successful and others not.
The module explores venture creation within different contexts, such as the rise in popularity of third sector organisations and the role of the social entrepreneur.
It supports the full development of entrepreneurial skills and sensitivities for use in existing organisations, to facilitate the management of change and/or the achievement of organisational goals.
In addition, it aims to prepare students for involvement in inter-organisational relationships and joint ventures requiring the mobilisation of entrepreneurial skills and knowledge.
This module designed for students whose first language is not English.
The aim of this module is to empower students to be culturally agile and be able to move between different linguistic and cultural contexts and to establish strong foundations in the English language.
This module is designed for students whose first language is not English.
Students will be encouraged to develop their creative thinking skills and improve their ability to make decisions through enhanced concentration, multitasking capabilities, and greater listening skills which can enhance their future employment opportunities.
This module builds on the work undertaken in English Business and Culture 1.
Business Studies is a diverse course where you are able to have a taste of everything, allowing you to tailor you learning to any business career.
Tamika Gayle
BA (Hons) Business Studies
The degree uses a range of assessment types which can assess individual performance and group performance to reflect the variety of learning styles in students.
Assessments can include coursework such as assignments, projects, essays, reports, portfolios, and reflective logs, as well as practical work including presentations, exhibitions, role play, and oral assessments.
Exams can include in-class tests or written exams.
The course aims to provide timely feedback to students.
Feedback is designed to identify areas of strength, weakness, and improvement in a student's work to support learning throughout the course.
Quality feedback is integral to the course's teaching and learning strategy.
Feedback is available electronically.
Students have access to one-to-one meetings to receive personalised feedback about their performance.
The course is accredited by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI).
Students completing the degree can achieve a Level 5 Diploma in Management and Leadership from the CMI.
As Affiliate Members of the CMI, you have access to CMI’s business mentoring scheme, career development centre, and professional learning resources to help develop professional expertise and to build relationships with industry throughout your degree.
Completion leads to a BA (Hons) Business (with Professional Practice); without the placement, it's a BA (Hons) Business.
Successful completion results in a BA (Hons) Business (International Study Year).
There may be opportunities to take part in the Lincoln International Business School's 4.0 Challenge, where students are paired with businesses in order to explore how digital technology can be used to improve business operations, allowing them to develop and enhance their problem-solving skills.
A degree in Business can prepare students for a career working in e-commerce, financial management, retail management, human resources, manufacturing, project management, consultancy, and marketing, among other sectors.
Lincoln graduates have gone on to work for organisations including IBM, Rolls-Royce, Jaguar Land Rover, Siemens, and Anglian Water.
This is a diverse course, where you are able to have a taste of everything, allowing you to tailor your learning to any business career.
BA (Hons) Business
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels
GCSE's: Minimum of three at Grade 4 or above which much include English and Maths.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/busecoub:
L101
The ability to analyse and solve business problems in market economies is highly sought after in many types of careers, both in the UK and around the world.
BA (Hons) Business Economics at Lincoln combines topics in business and economics with the opportunity to develop the skills and problem-solving abilities needed to tackle the multi-faceted problems faced by today's business managers.
The course explores business, industrial, macro-economic, and international economic contexts from an economist's analytic perspective.
It enables students to develop key skills in economics, finance, and business.
The programme has been designed to provide a theoretical understanding of the economic decisions faced by businesses, with a focus on application within national and international settings.
It is aimed at students who wish to study an economics degree, but who have not followed economics or mathematics at A Level, or its equivalent, and who are looking for a business-focused programme without a considerable mathematics component.
Tailor your degree with a range of optional modules
Practise real-life trading at a simulation event
Subject area ranked top ten in the UK for student satisfaction*
*Out of 77 ranking institutions in the Complete University Guide 2025.
Business Economics combines the study of economics with a wide variety of business and finance-related topics.
In the first year, students can gain a solid grounding in economics, marketing, business finance, and law.
This is built on in the second year, with topics including fundamental econometrics, and competition and regulation.
Industries and firms are examined from an economic perspective.
During the final year, students are able to choose optional modules in finance and economics, enabling them to tailor the degree to match their individual interests and career aspirations.
They have the opportunity to undertake a substantive independent research project on a topic of their choice, with guidance from their academic supervisor.
The module is designed to provide an overview of the development of political economy and its evolution into the subject of economics from the 18th Century onward.
It seeks to introduce key figures in the history of economics and their classic texts, and through giving students an opportunity to develop an understanding of the historical contexts in which they developed their ideas, aims to enable the concepts and models used in other economics modules to be analysed more thoroughly.
The aim of this module is to provide students with an opportunity to develop an understanding of how economic theory can be used to aid marketing and management decision-making in businesses.
The module, building upon Principles of Economics, seeks to examine applications in managerial economics at an intermediate level.
This module provides students with an opportunity to explore the way in which economic theory and evidence can be used to analyse policy issues.
The process by which economic policy is made given the choices that are available can be explored.
The module aims to make students aware of the difficulties that the policy diviner faces when seeking to forge acceptable trade-offs in a world of diverse, competing interests.
On this module students have the opportunity to explore the historical development of foreign direct investment activity.
This aims to give them the chance to develop an understanding of the main advantages to be gained from firms engaging further in international business activities as well as understand the workings of a global enterprise in a dynamic world economy.
Personnel economics is among the fields that stand out as one that has changed the thinking in a primarily business-oriented topic, namely the management of people.
The typical business spends between sixty and seventy percent of its resources on labour.
To this end, understanding the human part of business can be of paramount importance.
Personnel Economics endeavours to answer questions that were, until fairly recently, generally deemed to be outside the realm of economic analysis.
But far from being non-economic, the issues that were the central focus of human resources can be informed by economics, and this approach has made rapid progress in changing the field.
This module starts by surveying these developments and their effects on the banking sector, and continues by analysing contemporary issues in banking that emerged as responses to these global developments.
European Economies and European Integration firstly looks at the historical development of European economies.
It then focuses on the history and development of European institutions.
The later part of the module focuses on policy issues.
These include trade liberalisation, migration and labour, the budget, agricultural reform, regional policy, currency union and establishing a common commercial policy.
The final section includes fiscal policy, improving competitiveness, enlargement and transition economies.
Independent Study provides an opportunity for students to undertake a piece of original research that broadens and deepens the application of digital skills and extend their knowledge base independently.
From this basis a specialty or expertise in economics could emerge that could be extended with further skills and knowledge over time.
It is an extended piece of work that entails the expression of thought and creativity and the application of analytical skills and critical reasoning.
Our BA (Hons) Business Economics aims to equip students with transferable skills in preparation for a career in business, including roles in business management, communication analysis, and data interpretation.
Students may choose to continue their studies at postgraduate level.
I decided to study Business Economics because I wanted a more applied type of Economics degree, and I chose Lincoln because of its small and welcoming community – here you aren’t just a student ID number
Lydia Gallyer-Barnett
BA (Hons) Business Economics
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points
GCSE's:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English and a Grade 4 in Maths .

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/busfinub:
NN13
Adaptability and a wide range of industry skills offer graduates a strong platform to target careers in a variety of business sectors.
BA (Hons) Business and Finance at Lincoln aims to equip students with the tools and knowledge to operate in a range of business environments, and to develop a broad understanding of business and finance from an international perspective.
The course introduces business and finance theory, including the importance of data analysis, legal knowledge, marketing, and operations.
Modules have been designed to enable students to develop the ability to apply learning to practical situations.
Exemptions from elements of examination for ACCA
Apply learning to practical situations through a range of modules
The first year lays the foundation for advanced study and introduces the key elements of business.
Students tackle more advanced and specialist subjects in the second year.
In the final year, students have the opportunity to examine financial management at a higher level.
They can tailor their degree by selecting from a range of options aligned to individual interested and career ambitions.
Students are expected to source their own placement, and tutors can provide support during the process if required.
Increasing standards of living and wealth in society has resulted in more of our income spent on services rather than manufactured goods.
In a similar vein, more of the working population are earning their living from providing services.
Meanwhile, traditional marketing and marketing units tend to be product based rather than reflecting the importance of the consumption of services and the implications.
The more recent trend of sustainable business shifts strategic attention to building consumer relationships through various components and concepts of services marketing, putting more emphasis on fostering customer loyalty and retention.
In view of the economic and marketing trends, this module is not simply an extension of traditional marketing.
It provides students with an understanding of services marketing and relationship strategies in business to prepare them for entering a broader scope of industries both within UK and international contexts.
Topics currently analysed in academic research and adopted by industry will be explored to provide currency and timely application of these insights.
The module will include but is not limited to exploring the environmental context of services business and the way the extended marketing mix can be used to evaluate the service environment.
Principles of relational marketing will be introduced with specific focus on the development of customer retention strategies.
Tactical use of services marketing will be explored to develop customer relationships that build loyalty and increase value.
This course currently provides exemptions from elements of examination for the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants.
Depending on the exemptions sought, students may be required to undertake specific modules.
Other exemptions are achieved upon completion of the course.
These include: Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) Papers F1, F2 and F3 on completion of the degree, and F9 on completion of modules Financial Management and Advanced Financial Management.
Completion leads to a BA (Hons) Business and Finance (with Professional Practice); without the placement, it's a BA (Hons) Business and Finance.
Successful completion results in a BSc (Hons) Business and Finance (International Study Year).
A wide variety of opportunities exist in many areas of business and finance around the world.
These include roles in financial management, investment banking, advertising, marketing, e-commerce, human resources, and project management.
The course was excellent for broadening your knowledge of both the financial and wider objectives of a business.
It had many modules and this was something that attracted me to the course as there were plenty of options throughout the three years.
Bhavesh Bhagwanji
BA (Hons) Business and Finance

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/mgtprpub:
NN12
At the heart of every successful business are people with the expertise to use physical and human resources effectively, leading teams to embrace the challenges they face and find the best way forward.
Our BA (Hons) Business and Management is designed for students who want to work in the fast-paced global world of business, whether it is in a private, public, or a third sector organisation.
The course aims to help you develop the capacity to address the challenges of business practice by managing complexity, being confident in conditions of uncertainty, and positively responding to unintended consequences.
You are encouraged to think and act as managers, developing your critical-thinking skills, and building a broad knowledge of core business subject areas.
You will have the opportunity to complete a one-year work placement or international year abroad, which will be reflected in the award title - BA (Hons) Business and Management (with Professional Practice), or BA (Hons) Business and Management (International Study Year).
Those who choose not complete a placement or year abroad will receive a BA (Hons) Business and Management award, or equivalent exit award.
Accredited by the Chartered Management Institute
Online training for personal and professional skills
Access to industry through guest speakers and visits
Undertake problem-based learning and develop a professional portfolio
From the outset of the course, students are expected to tackle subjects which underpin business practice, such as finance, organisational behaviour, and economics.
This moves on to more complex aspects of management in the second year including sustainability, leadership, innovation, operations, human resource management, and budgeting.
In the final year, you will study core modules in strategic management, leadership, digital marketing, and philosophy, and can choose to specialise in crisis management, financial management, global marketing strategy, or independent research
Core modules on this programme have integrated opportunities for you to innovate and develop your  leadership skills.
There are opportunities for you to undertake problem-based learning, develop reflective practice, and design, develop, and present portfolios.
Most modules include lectures.
These are designed to inspire and motivate students, introduce you to particular topics, and give an overview of current issues and debates within the discipline.
Some are given by visiting practitioners who provide 'live' case material and offer students industry contacts and careers advice.
In seminars, which typically involve numbers of fewer than 20, you are able to articulate your own thoughts and clarify ideas through discussion with others.
A variety of learning methods will be used, including in-class group exercises, discussions, presentations, evaluation of sample material, and case study analysis.
Students are expected to prepare prescribed material for seminars as well as generally keep abreast of current developments in their discipline.
Hear from Harry, a Business and Management student at Lincoln International Business School, who shares his journey about studying at the University of Lincoln.
Work has always been a changing phenomenon, evolving over time.
It is the activity that most of us will spend a significant part of our time doing.
The relationships of work are determined by the relative power of workers (selling their time) and capital (buying time) along with the societal contexts in which work is carried out.
How we work, and the nature of the work we do, is being re-imagined.
New digital applications, the maturing of automation and the emerging transformations facilitated by artificial intelligence, the ‘Fourth Industrial Revolution’ is shaping and changing the organisation of the workplace, as well as the nature and meaning of work.
This module aims to prepare students to engage critically with theories and issues related to ‘organisations’ and ‘organising’.
It aims specifically to develop students’ abilities to explore the underlying assumptions embodied by different modes of organising and to track the ways in which power and control are variously mobilised, enacted and resisted.
This module introduces organisation and management from an explicitly critical position.
Too often, organisations are presented as neat, predictable, and unproblematic.
The critical perspective reveals everyday challenges as managers deal with situations which are under contention, where there isn’t always a straightforward solution.
The purpose of this module is to broaden horizons by exploring how approaches to managing shift as new theories emerge and organisation practices adapt to address emerging concerns.
Students on this module will recognise underlying assumptions of knowledge and understand that knowledge is not fixed but part of an ongoing discussion.
Students will have the ability to evaluate sources of knowledge and how it relates to contemporary business practice.
Through this module, students will also learn introductory skills of inquiry, searching, and selecting literature, and confidence in discussing and presenting new topics.
This module lays the foundation on the degree for how learners should engage with future modules.
The module develops skills of innovation, creativity and critical inquiry through a student led project which focuses on an ongoing business problem.
Through the inquiry project the module seeks to examine the everyday practical challenges of being innovative and creative in the workplace.
This module gives student the opportunity to investigate current research into the practice of business and management.
Students can explore the effects of shifts in economics, politics, and society’s interests on business management and reflect on the implications this will have on ways of thinking, managing, and working in contemporary organisations.
This module explores the complexity of the relationship between knowledge, theories and action.
Management is regarded as both practical and pragmatic, but also fundamentally a philosophical phenomenon.
In this context, the underpinning epistemological and ontological assumptions of management theories, as well as managerial practices, are scrutinized.
This module explores how the subjects of management and organisation are represented by popular media forms such as Hollywood film and television drama.
In contemporary society, visual media plays an important part in shaping our expectations and understandings of organisations.
Not only do popular media forms determine the information we receive and the perceptions and opinions we come to hold, it can also provide us with a way of making sense of our own experiences of work.
For future managers and leaders, reading film and television texts is an important way of gaining insight into the cultural ideology embedded within these texts and developing a critical awareness of the role of the media in reproducing systems of power and authority associated with the dominant culture.
Looking at a diverse range of media genres, from hospital television drama to ‘mockumentary’ to science fiction films.
This module investigates the ways in which dramatic representations and stereotypes work to create and perpetuate popular understandings of organisational structures and managerial processes.
The module seeks to develop students’ abilities to read media texts and interpret their cultural and social significance relative to their own organisational experience and the experience of others through a range of teaching and learning activities including reading, lectures, screenings, seminar discussions, and student presentations.
This student-led approach supports the enhancement of personal responsibility, research, and team working skills.
Assessments can include coursework such as assignments, project, essay, report, portfolio, and reflective log; practical work including presentation, exhibition, role play, and oral assessment.
Exams can include in-class tests or written exam.
The business and management course aims to provide timely feedback to students.
Feedback is designed to identify areas of strength, weakness, and improvement in a student's work to support learning throughout the degree.
Quality feedback is integral to the degrees teaching and learning strategy.
Where possible feedback is available electronically.
Join us for a day in the life of Sofia, one of our BA (Hons) Business Management students.
Completion leads to a BA (Hons) Business and Management (with Professional Practice) ; without the placement, it's a BA (Hons) Business and Management .
Successful completion results in a BA (Hons) Business and Management (International Study Year).
The degree offers online training to develop personal and professional skills in areas such as management development, employability mathematics, and finance.
Bite-sized online training is also available to enhance proficiency with frequently used business software.
Training is available for packages such as Word, Outlook, Excel.
The University of Lincoln is proud of its approach to nurturing entrepreneurship in its students.
Lectures and visiting practitioners provide insight into current practice and global issues, while real-world projects help challenge students to develop problem solving skills.
Academics and students on the degree also work closely with the Business Society to provide access to industry through guest speakers and business visits.
This is very much the social arm of the degree.
Graduates from our BA (Hons) Business and Management may go on to work in project management, logistics management, consultancy, retail, human resources, marketing, finance, manufacturing, education, information technology, and telecommunications, as well as public sector management.
My course offered up-to-date industry knowledge that allowed me to thrive during my professional placement year with the bank that has since offered me a graduate role.
Stephanie Nock
BA (Hons) Business and Management
GCSEs: Minimum of three at grade 4  or above, which must include English and Maths.
A Level: CCC to BBC

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/mktprpub:
3 Years
NN1M
Innovation and creativity are increasingly important to devising and delivering effective modern marketing campaigns, as rapid technological advancements have transformed the business landscape.
BA (Hons) Business and Marketing at Lincoln is designed to provide students with a firm grasp of the basic principles of the subject.
It encourages them to explore the theoretical and practical context of business and develop a marketing specialism.
Throughout the programme, students have the opportunity to increase their familiarity with the international business environment, identify marketing opportunities, and develop an understanding of how to overcome the challenges of reaching mass and niche audiences.
You will have the opportunity to complete a one-year work placement or international year abroad, which will be reflected in the award title - BA (Hons) Business and Marketing (with Professional Practice), or BA (Hons) Business and Marketing (International Study Year).
Those who choose not complete a placement or year abroad will receive a BA (Hons) Business and Marketing award, or equivalent exit award.
Subject area is ranked 2nd for student satisfaction in the UK*
Accredited by the Chartered Institute of Marketing
Business insights from visiting practitioners and academics
*Complete University Guide 2025 (out of 87 ranking institutions)
From the first year, students are introduced to the tools needed to develop successful strategies and business campaigns.
The importance of digital marketing is acknowledged throughout the programme, and students have the ability to develop digital skills from the outset.
The course examines core business concepts and builds on this foundation throughout the degree.
It invites students to choose from a wide variety of business modules in their final year to reflect their individual interests.
Lectures are designed to give an overview of current issues and debates within the discipline.
Some of these are delivered by visiting practitioners who provide 'live' case material and can offer students access to industry contacts and careers advice.
The additional work placement year offers the opportunity for students to complete a period of work experience after their second year of study, in order to apply their knowledge in a real business setting.
Those students who are unable to undertake or choose not to participate in the work placement year scheme, may have the option to undertake a work-related project such as a piece of consultancy or an enterprise project.
Students who successfully complete their studies with a year of work placement will receive the award title  BA (Hons) Business and Marketing (with Professional Practice).
Those who do not will receive a BA (Hons) Business and Marketing award.
Contact time can be in workshops, practical sessions, placements, consultancy projects, field visits, seminars or lectures and may vary from module to module and from academic year to year.
Some courses offer the opportunity to take part in external visits and fieldwork.
It is still the case that students read for a degree and this means that in addition to scheduled contact hours, students are required to engage in independent study.
This allows you to read around a subject and to prepare for lectures and seminars through wider reading, or to complete follow up tasks such as assignments or revision.
As a general guide, the amount of independent study required by students at the University of Lincoln is that for every hour in class you are expected to spend at least two to three hours in independent study.
This module introduces the theories and practice of advertising, to help provide an understanding of advertising and communications that will underpin the more specialist modules in the second and third years.
Students can examine theories of advertising and conceptual frameworks which attempt to explain how advertising works.
The module reflects on different media, across traditional and digital platforms, and introduces a range of core communication models, in order to analyse the likely impact of media messages.
It will also reflect on advertising within the broader marketing environment, such as how advertising aids marketing management, ethical considerations, and the impact of new technologies.
This module is designed to enhance the knowledge, understanding, and skills students need to foster a career in marketing.
The module aims to increase awareness of the role of marketing within the organisation and the key concepts that underpinned the activities of the marketer.
Students will have the opportunity to start planning for their careers and developing their employability skills for a marketing environment.
The module places the development of marketing communications in the context of business and marketing strategies within a changing digital landscape.
Theories of information processing and buyer behaviour around a target audience are explored and applied in the development of an integrated marketing communications plan (IMC).
Emphasis is placed on the critique of the elements of the communications mix, the media selection, and the evaluation of the effectiveness and efficiency of communications deployed.
The aim of this module is to introduce students to marketing research, equip them with relevant research skills needed in the workplace and underpin the independent projects at Level 6.
The module will cover aspects such as defining market research problems and the stages involved in conducting marketing research.
Students will also be introduced to research philosophy and the different research approaches.
The module will also provide students the opportunity to develop fundamental understanding of important research conventions such as ethical considerations and the marketing ethics code of conduct.
A crucial aspect of the module will be introducing students to quantitative and qualitative research methods and providing students with a practical approach to developing these skills.
The students will be actively involved in the process and will get a chance to source secondary data, formulate a plan, conduct primary research and evaluate and present the findings.
This will prepare the students and give them the necessary skills needed for their final year dissertation, consultancy and responsible enterprise projects.
Students can elect to study  up to 60 credits abroad at one of our partner universities , usually in the second semester.
Usually students will elect to study for a semester and take 60 credits of study.
We aim to provide students with the most up-to-date theories of corporate reputation following a hands-on approach where students apply their understanding of corporate reputation and PR to real-world case studies.
This module contributes to students’ understanding of the environment in which businesses, advertising, and marketing operate by reflecting on issues that affect the conduct of businesses, institutions, and non-profit organisations in a variety of industries and contexts.
It can add strategic and operational skills in managing reputation and develop research abilities through a combination of primary and secondary data collection, interpretation, and reporting.
The skills developed in this module may be useful for students interested in corporate reputation and public relations.
Students will be able to apply these skills to a wide range of careers from starting a business to internships or becoming self-employed.
The central theme of this module revolves around understanding the various concepts, theories and models associated with developing and marketing an ecommerce business and applying them to organisations, customers and stakeholders.
Students are provided with opportunities to practice and conceptualise their own ecommerce business and consider the role of digital marketing in terms of how it contributes to the maintenance and development of an online business.
This module explores the role of e-commerce on market position, competition and sustainability, and encourages student to reflect on the changing nature of the relationship between the supplier and user /the human and the digital interface.
Students are offered an opportunity to develop important subject specific practical and digital skills and knowledge that most organisations would recognise as being highly important or alternatively would serve them well in the development of their own business.
The module delves into how to market an e-commerce business, learning practical digital skills and applies digital marketing skills which will typically include; search engine optimisation, key word placement, PPC advertising, social media marketing and digital lead generation tactics to support sales through an e-commerce platform.
Examples of assessment methods that may be used include coursework, such as written assignments, reports or dissertations; practical exams, such as presentations, performances or observations; and written exams, such as formal examinations or in class tests.
This programme is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) to Certificate level.
Upon successful completion students are awarded 'advanced standing' (exemptions) which enables students to study for CIM qualification without needing to complete all of the modules (requirement to pass one elective module to obtain the L4 Certificate in Professional Marketing or Professional Digital Marketing).
Further details can be found on the CIM website.
Completion leads to a BA (Hons) Business and Marketing (with Professional Practice ); without the placement, it's a BA (Hons) Business and Marketing .
All full-time students on this course have the opportunity to take a year-long International Year Abroad (IYA) after the second year.
The IYA enables you to study in a cross-cultural environment with wider cultural experience, and can enhance your future employment opportunities by increasing your cultural and professional mobility.
IYA is optional for all taught on-campus undergraduate students in Lincoln International Business School.
It is a year-long module which enables students to spend time studying abroad at one of the University's approved partner institutions.
As many partner institutions support internships it is also possible for students will elect to combine study (minimum one semester equivalent) with work and or a period of volunteering.
Eligible students must have completed their second year of study to a satisfactory standard (normally with an average of a 2.2 or above, dependent upon partner requirements) standard and successfully completed the application process.
Successful completion of the International Year Abroad will be reflected in the award title - BA (Hons) Business and Marketing (International Study Year).
Students are invited to join optional field trips throughout their studies to see effective marketing in action.
Previously trips have included visits to Jaguar Land Rover, the Museum of Brands, and the World Marketing Summit.
These trips may have an additional cost.
Recent Business and Marketing graduates have gone on to work in communications, market research, e-commerce, project management, account management, and creative marketing in the public sector or within in-house or agency marketing roles.
I have so many great memories and I owe a lot to the friends, lecturers, and opportunities I had as they really did make my time at the University of Lincoln so amazing.
Kayleigh Terry
BA (Hons) Business and Marketing

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/chmchmub:
F100
Concerned with the study of matter, its properties and reactions, chemistry plays a key role in tackling global challenges such as energy production, health and wellbeing, food security and the use of natural resources.
The programme aims to develop the analytical and practical skills required to prepare students for a wide range of science-related careers.
These include nanoscience for new materials and devices, the chemistry/biology interface for drugs discovery, nuclear chemistry for safe energy generation, biotechnology for new manufacturing methods, and sensors for forensic medical and environmental applications.
Students have the opportunity to engage with staff in research projects and this research-focused environment can enable students to develop practical expertise and apply theoretical knowledge to the role of chemistry in the modern world.
Concerned with the study of matter, its properties and reactions, chemistry plays a key role in tackling global challenges such as energy production, health and wellbeing, food security, and the use of natural resources.
Subject ranked 2nd in the UK for student satisfaction*
Optional work placements
Accredited by the Royal Society of Chemistry
Industry challenges set through partnerships with multinational organisations
Engage with staff on research projects
*Complete University Guide 2025 (out of 48 ranking institutions)
Students have the opportunity to focus initially on organic, inorganic, and physical chemistry through an integrated approach that emphasises connectivity.
Laboratory workshops and extensive use of specialist equipment provides the chance for students to develop hands-on skills.
Later in the course, students can apply their experience to a range of real-world applications, including industry-informed, interdisciplinary projects.
A significant research project also aims to develop students in a specialism of their choice.
Throughout the course, there is an emphasis on developing the professional skills required for a future career in industry.
This module extends the theoretical approaches related to atomic and molecular structure to develop models to explain structure, reactivity and spectroscopy of systems.
It aims to provide the underpinning knowledge to understand how structure and reactivity are applied to develop new compounds and materials that change the world around us.
This module aims to provide a breadth core understanding of the main chemical principles behind the chemistry of elements, systems in equilibrium and chemical reactivity, with special emphasis in basic organic reactions.
Students will have the opportunity to learn basic concepts about elements and their main periodic properties and how some of these elements can be combined to produce molecules.
Organic molecules will be used as an example to explain reactivity and how chemical structure can condition molecular properties.
Energy transfers are also studied to understand the key role they play in chemical and physical transformations and how systems in equilibrium are affected by these.
This module aims to introduce core chemistry concepts with an emphasis on chemical change.
Movement and interaction of molecules and chemical kinetics are key physical chemistry topics covered and applied to chemical reactions of both organic and inorganic substances.
The use of empirical data to develop and support laws, theories and models will be covered and how chemical kinetics can be used to develop reaction mechanisms.
An introduction to crystallography and absorption spectroscopy is covered.
This module aims to provide students with an overview of the application of chemistry in commercial and industrial contexts to underpin more detailed coverage in later models in this series.
The module aims to develop fundamental skills in mathematics and IT which will underpin their core chemistry modules.
The module will also give students the opportunity to develop their transferable skills including knowledge of health and safety in the chemistry laboratory, effective communication in both written and oral form and group work.
This module aims to introduce students to the chemistry laboratory environment.
The purpose of the module is to provide students with a platform which can be built upon in subsequent practical modules and equalise their potentially pre-university laboratory experience.
Within this module students can learn a portfolio of skills and be evaluated via competency based assessments.
The module also covers best practice in health and safety in the laboratory environment as part of the series of key core concepts delivered in the module.
This module aims to provide students with the practical experience associated with the topics delivered in Core Chemistry 1.1 and Core Chemistry 1.2.
The module will outline key organic, inorganic and physical chemistry concepts with a series of laboratory activities reinforced by the use of relevant analytical techniques and tools throughout a range of experiments.
This module further builds on 'Introduction to Professional Practice' and aims to provide an introduction to the application of analytical sciences in industry.
It aims to develop students' mathematics and statistics skills whilst also continuing the development of their transferable skills relating to information retrieval including literature searching and critique, the use of chemistry-based databases and mobile applications and their scientific writing skills.
This module aims to cover the fundamental concepts relating to structure, reactivity and reaction mechanism, building on the knowledge and understanding acquired at level one.
It provides the underpinning knowledge to understand how structure and reactivity are applied to develop new materials and new technologies in the world around us.
This module aims to provide a breadth core understanding of the physicochemical principles behind some of the main analytical techniques and how these can be applied to identify atomic and molecular structures in both inorganic and organic chemistry.
It also offers an insight on advanced synthetic methods and how these techniques can be used to explain and interpret structure and reactivity of complex molecules, such as coordination and organometallic compounds.
This module aims to further develop core chemistry concepts relating to chemical change.
Electrochemistry is used to study thermodynamic properties of redox reactions as well as the kinetics of electrode processes.
The kinetics of complex reactions builds upon the chemical kinetics material covered at level one.
Bonding between metals and carbon is explored and further developed as the main group organometallics.
This module aims to provide students with the practical experience associated with the topics delivered in Core Chemistry 2.1, with a strong focus on organic chemistry.
The module will outline essential complex organic chemistry concepts with a series of laboratory activities designed around multistep syntheses and reinforced by the use of relevant analytical techniques and tools throughout a range experiments.
This module aims to provide students with the practical experience associated with the topics delivered in Core Chemistry 2.2, with a strong focus on inorganic and physical chemistry.
The module is constituted of a series of laboratory activities designed to familiarise students with an array of techniques centred around key aspects of inorganic syntheses.
Specifically, the module emphasizes stability and speciation methods and their applications to the inorganic chemistry field.
All aspects of the module will be supported by associated relevant analytical technologies.
This module aims to provide students with an appreciation of chemistry in context and in particular industry.
The module will look at topics such as health and safety in industry and associated national and international legislation and regulation.
Continuing from level one professional practice modules, students’ mathematics and IT skills can be further developed with the introduction of advanced mathematical concepts and software and their chemistry applications.
Additionally, supplementary software will be introduced to strengthen students’ skills in communicating science to a variety of audiences.
This module builds on Professional Practice 2.1 and further looks at chemistry in context and in particular industry, with a focussed introduction to the pharmaceuticals sector.
The module also aims to develop understanding of employability, the job application process and the necessity for reflective practice and continued professional development in a competitive job market.
This module aims to provide deeper understanding on physicochemical principles behind materials and their properties, exploring advanced concepts in supramolecular chemistry and synthetic routes for more complex organic molecules.
Crystals, colloids, discontinuous phases and solid state chemistry concepts are studied in depth to understand physical and chemical properties that give these materials a wide range of application in industry and research.
This module covers in greater depth the thermodynamics and kinetics of processes occurring on solid surfaces.
Heterogeneous catalysis is used as an example of how reactions at solid surfaces differ from those in the bulk.
Electrochemistry is further developed.
Organic chemistry topics are the advanced areas of radical chemistry and orbital symmetry along with heteroelement and organometallic synthesis.
Concepts of supramolecular chemistry are covered.
This module builds upon previous practical modules and provides a support for the illustration of the theory delivered in the Core chemistry 3.1 module.
The concept of this module is to offer students the opportunity to experience and dissect the process of designing a material which fulfils specific requirements or needs, its synthesis and its characterisation.
Through this process, the module offers the opportunity to host advanced complex organic syntheses (such as asymmetric synthesis) and supramolecular synthesis.
Additionally, the module introduces students to a series of stereoselective analytical techniques designed to characterise aforementioned materials.
This module aims to provide students with critical understanding of the position of the chemical industry in the modern context and associated environmental regulation-induced constraints.
Global issues such as waste production, recycling and scarcity of natural resources and their impact on the future challenges faced by chemists will be discussed.
The module also aims to provide students with a thorough preparation for their Stage 3 structured project.
This will include the use of electronic notebooks, a suite of student-selected workshops to support their individual structured project and in-depth training in scientific review and scientific paper writing.
This module offers students the opportunity to undertake an independent programme of research under the supervision of a member of staff.
It provides students with the opportunity to demonstrate original and critical thoughts as well as build practical and project-management skills.
Students may select a project from a series of proposals provided by staff, conduct a review of the literature, identify a hypothesis, and design a programme of research to test the hypothesis (under guidance from their supervisor).
Students will be expected to manage the project including obtaining relevant ethical approval and conducting COSHH and risk assessments.
Students may analyse and interpret data which will be collected in the laboratory or the field, or using computational sources (e.g.
software for mathematical modelling; the internet for the meta-analysis of pre-collected data).
The project will be written up either as a thesis or a scientific paper following closely defined criteria.
The Biological Chemistry module is taught across the disciplines of biology and chemistry and is designed to challenge and develop an awareness of multidiscipline research within students.
The overarching aim is to encourage and develop a mode of thinking in students of how chemistry influences biological processes and how this can be exploited by industry and emerging fields.
This module introduces the chemistry and physics of fire and explosives and considers the investigation of fire and explosion scenes with an emphasis on arson and the use of improvised explosive devices.
The challenges of evidence recovery, laboratory examination and chemical analysis are covered.
This module also considers the various aspects of nuclear terrorism, in the context of global security.
The underpinning science and the forensic investigation of nuclear materials for intelligence building is discussed.
This course is accredited by the Royal Society of Chemistry.
Through accreditation, the Royal Society of Chemistry aims to promote good practices in the university education of chemical scientists, and ensure that future practising scientists are knowledgeable and competent.
Our Chemistry courses have an embedded explicit skills development programme through the professional practice modules.
The programme delivers a systematic programme in skills development, which includes CV writing and interview skills.
The modules exemplify the application of chemistry into key employment sectors and present chemistry through an integrated approach.
A series of themed industry challenges are co-delivered during the professional practice modules through industry partnerships with multi-national and SME organisations representing the analytical, formulation, pharmaceutical, and energy and environmental sectors.
After systematic project planning and management training, students can devise and present technical proposals in response to the challenge.
After consultation and feedback from a joint academic and industry panel, students can execute project plans and report within industry standard methods.
The professional practice modules aim to prepare students for placements and future employment.
I felt my student experience was enhanced by the support available from both my peers and the staff, who were always ready and willing to help in any way they could.
Victoria Hugill
MChem Forensic Chemistry
Students may have the opportunity to undertake placements during their degree.
Placements can range from a few weeks to a full year if students choose to undertake an optional sandwich year in industry (where available).
Students are encouraged to obtain placements in industry independently.
Chemistry graduates may pursue a wide range of science-related careers in sectors including energy, petrochemicals, pharmaceuticals, and consumer and personal care products.
This course aims to equip graduates with extensive analytical and mathematical skills which are relevant to roles in finance, management, science-based marketing and journalism, education, and academic research.
Some graduates may choose to continue their studies at doctoral level.
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A levels or equivalent qualifications to include 40 points from Chemistry.
(*dependent on modules studied.
Please contact our Admissions team for further information (admissions@lincoln.ac.uk)
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points, including 40 points from 15 credits in Chemistry.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall to include a Higher Level 5 in Chemistry.
This must be achieved from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent Level 3 qualifications, to include 40 points from Chemistry.
A Level: BCD to BBC to include a Grade B in Chemistry
BTEC Extended Diploma in Applied Science accepted depending on modules: DMM
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 96 to 112 UCAS points to be achieved from 45 Level 3 credits, including 40 points from 15 credits in Chemistry.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/chmchmum:
F102
The MChem Chemistry degree aims to integrate the core chemistry disciplines with advanced topics aligned to the major scientific challenges of the 21st Century.
Full-year industrial placement
The course includes lectures, seminars, laboratory-based practical classes and lectures from visiting scientists.
Extensive small-group teaching and innovative team-based learning create a supportive learning environment that helps you train through practice- and problem-based approaches.
Students can focus initially on organic, inorganic, and physical chemistry through an integrated approach that emphasises connectivity.
Laboratory workshops and extensive use of specialist equipment aims to enable students to develop hands-on skills.
Later in the course, students have the opportunity to apply their experience to a range of real-world applications, including industry-informed interdisciplinary projects.
A significant research project provides students with the chance to develop a specialism of their choice.
Throughout the course, there is an emphasis on developing the professional skills required for students' future careers.
All students in the fourth year of the MChem programme currently have the opportunity to undertake a full-year industrial placement.
You can choose your placement with one of the University's industry or overseas partners, or in one of our research groups.
Placements are conducted alongside advanced academic study, focusing on research frontiers in chemistry.
Students are supported in finding their placement and when undertaking it.
Salaried placements are competitive and students will be expected to complete an application process for such positions.
In addition to paying their tuition fees, students will need to cover their own travel, accommodation, and general living costs throughout their placement.
The  option to study overseas is a valuable educational opportunity for our students.
Provision of this option supports the educational aims of the Chemistry programmes and enhances the distinctiveness of its degrees at Lincoln.
The experience is intended to:
Study Abroad
is a  module which enables students to spend a year studying abroad at one of the University’s approved partner institutions.
Eligible students must have completed their third year of study to a satisfactory standard and successfully completed the application process for the year abroad.
During the time spent abroad, students will complete the professional development portfolio and will critically reflect upon their experience of living and studying in a different cultural environment and the skills acquired.
This module aims to provide students skills to critically analyse and adopt topical areas of research and advance instrumentation in the field of chemistry.
This information will be utilised to provide students with an understanding and appreciation of how fundamental chemistry theory and experimentation are being applied to contemporary cutting edge science.
The module will draw inspiration from both ‘grand challenges for chemical sciences’ and will reflect the current research focus within the chemistry school.
The module comprises a series of lectures, workshops and experimentation and the content within each topic and instrumental techniques, will aim to build on students' knowledge of basic physical, organic and inorganic chemistry and will deliver in-depth analysis of its application in the main-stream chemical, biological and environmental processes.
Students will also have the opportunity to learn to provide an up-to-date account of modern methods in synthetic organic chemistry, material & inorganic chemistry and application of physical chemistry theory in experimentation, as well as cover key advanced instrumentation techniques in chemistry and provide hands-on experience.
This module aims to develop systematic personal and professional development of a student in a specialist area of chemistry to enhance employability.
This is achieved through development and execution of a personal learning plan designed using a process of self-reflection around five development themes: personal development; professional skills development; technical skills development; research interests; career development.
This module provides students with the opportunity to apply chemical knowledge and laboratory skills to an extended practical research study.
It also provides the opportunity to further develop professional skills, including the use of online literature/chemical data searching; ability to critically review relevant published literature & written/oral presentation of research activities.
This module provides students with the opportunity to apply chemical knowledge and  laboratory skills to an extended practical research study within a commercial context.
Students can further develop professional skills, incl.
use of online literature/chemical data searching; ability to critically review relevant published literature and written/oral presentation of research activities.
Examples of assessment methods that may be used include coursework, such as written assignments, reports, or dissertations; practical exams, such as presentations, performances, or observations; and written exams, such as formal examinations or in-class tests.
We use an innovative ‘end-on’ full-year industrial placement programme for all students at Stage 4 of the MChem/MSci courses.
You can choose to focus on research through a placement in a research group at the University or another institution, or complete a full-year placement (usually salaried £15-20k).
Salaried placements are competitive and students will be expected to undertake an application process for such positions.
There are also opportunities for overseas placements with European, American, and Australian institutions through our International Intern Programme which takes place between the third and fourth year.
112 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications to include 40 points in Chemistry.
Please contact our Admissions team for further information admissions@lincoln.ac.uk).
T Levels:  Not currently accepted.
Access to Higher Education Diploma:  45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 112 UCAS Tariff points, including 40 points from 15 credits in Chemistry.
International Baccalaureate: 29 points overall to include a Higher Level 5 in Chemistry.
BTEC Extended Diploma in Applied Science accepted depending on modules: DDM
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 104 to 120 UCAS points to be achieved from 45 Level 3 credits, including 40 points from 15 credits in Chemistry.
International Baccalaureate: 30 points overall to include a Higher Level 5 in Chemistry.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/chmdrgub:
F151
Join the fight against disease by learning how to create better and safer drugs for society with a degree in Chemistry for Drug Discovery and Development.
Our BSc (Hons) Chemistry for Drug Discovery and Development aims  to develop skills in the design and development of active molecules, all the way through to the final pharmaceutical products available to patients.
Students can gain knowledge of synthetic chemistry and develop experience in drug formulation and manufacture within the regulatory context of the pharmaceutical industry.
This will involve substantial practical experience of advanced laboratory techniques.
On this programme, students have the opportunity to develop a comprehensive knowledge of chemistry alongside subject-specific and generic skills to develop a strong understanding of how chemistry is applied to problems with direct impact on society.
Our programmes are designed to produce highly employable graduates with a broad background in academic chemistry and significant experience of the application of chemistry in contexts relevant to society and industry.
Subject area ranked 2nd in the UK for student satisfaction*
Small goup teaching and innovative team-based learning
Work placement opportunities
Opportunities to engage with staff on research projects
*Complete University Guide 2025 (out of 42 ranking institutions).
The programme takes an integrated approach to organic, inorganic, and physical chemistry, exploring how they work together.
Later in the course, students can apply their experience to a range of real-world applications, including industry-informed interdisciplinary projects.
The course includes lectures, seminars, laboratory-based practical classes, and lectures from visiting scientists.
Extensive small-group teaching and innovative team-based learning aims to create a supportive learning environment to help students train through practice and problem-based approaches.
Examples of assessment methods that are used include coursework, such as written assignments, reports or dissertations; practical exams, such as presentations, performances, or observations; and written exams, such as formal examinations or in-class tests.
Those with specialisms in drug discovery and development can also aim for careers in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors.
This can involve positions in molecular diagnostics, bioanalysis, and immunology.
Some graduates may choose to continue their studies at postgraduate level.
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications to include 40 points in Chemistry.
Please contact our Admissions team for further information admissions@lincoln.ac.uk)
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall to include a Higher Level in Chemistry.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/chmdrgum:
F152
The MChem Chemistry for Drug Discovery and Development is designed to develop skills in the design and development of active molecules, all the way through to the final pharmaceutical products available to patients.
Throughout the course, there is an emphasis on developing the professional skills required in your future career.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/course/sfysfyub
A Level: BCC to BBB to include a Grade B in Chemistry
International Baccalaureate: 30 points overall to include a Higher Level in Chemistry.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/clscvlub:
6 years
Q820
Classical Studies at Lincoln offers the opportunity to explore and examine the history, culture, and language of the ancient Greek and Roman worlds to discover how they have influenced and shaped the society in which we live today.
BA (Hons) Classical Studies is an interdisciplinary degree programme.
Students have the opportunity to study the ancient world alongside experts in history and archaeology, the history of art and architecture, heritage and conservation, literary and cultural studies, philosophy, and English and drama.
The curriculum reflects the variety and richness of research and teaching within the School of History and Heritage, and the College of Arts more widely.
The city of Lincoln takes its name from Lindum Colonia: a Roman legionary fortress established in the middle of the first century AD which became a settlement for retired soldiers a generation later.
Above and below ground it preserves traces of this history, from fragments of walls and aqueducts to the street plan itself.
Traffic still travels through the Newport Arch, its third-century gate, while the University is situated on the Brayford Pool, an inland port with remains of the Roman-period waterfront, connected to the River Trent.
Staff at the University of Lincoln teaching on the Classical Studies programme work in exciting areas, from the making of Roman London to the fall of the Empire in the West, from the historiography of the Hellenistic world to language and literacy in the western Mediterranean.
Research informs teaching on all our courses, and staff aim to support students as they access specialist resources for their own studies, such as the built environment of Lincoln itself and the excavated artefacts housed in The Collection, the city's archaeological museum to which we have privileged access.
Classics at Lincoln is ranked 2nd in the UK for student satisfaction*
The historic city of Lincoln provides the ideal backdrop to your studies
Privileged access to the city's archaeological museum, The Collection
A wide range of optional modules
Study abroad at one of our partner institutions around the globe
Undertake work placements to gain experience
*Complete University Guide 2025 (out of 23 ranking intuitions).
The first year of the degree is designed to provide a solid foundation in the study of the ancient world.
It commences with introductory modules in Greek and Roman history and culture, Classical art, archaeology, literature, and the Latin language.
These provide orientation in the handling of textual, visual, and material evidence from Antiquity, and particularly in the sensitive reading of written sources.
Alongside modules in critical thinking, writing, and historiography, these foundation modules aim to develop the skills necessary for students to chart their own path through the balance of the degree programme.
In the second year, all students take an introductory module in Classical reception, while beginning their apprenticeship in detailed engagement with a Classical source and the design of an independent research project.
In addition, there is a broad range of optional modules, based on the research specialisms of our academic staff, in the history, art, archaeology, and language of the Classical world (including Greek), as well as its varied cultural legacies in medieval, early modern and modern Europe, and beyond.
Third year students can engage in sustained study of and commentary on a text, object, or site from the Classical world, and produce an extended piece of independent research on a topic of their choice under the supervision of one of our team.
In addition, there is a further selection of optional modules at a more specialist and research-intensive level.
Students are encouraged to choose according to their interests.
This module surveys the political, social, economic and cultural history of the Roman world as a complex conversation amongst written, material and visual evidence, each not only supplementing the others but often contributing new and otherwise unheard voices.
We will explore the experiences of living, dying, working and worshipping in the Roman world from the earliest evidence for the city of Rome to the diverse cultures of far-flung provinces.
Through an examination of the dynamic and varied evidence of art, archaeology, architecture, epigraphy and ancient histories, we will discover and question what it meant to live under the rule of Rome.
This module offers an introduction to ancient Greek and Roman literature: it is designed to provide a taste of Classical literature and to equip students with the background information and critical skills that they need to be able to engage confidently and independently with Greek and Roman literature in translation.
In lectures and seminars students will engage with a selection of texts, and through examining these cultural products of the Greeks and Romans will come to understand their significance within both their historical context and over the course of their transmission and reception.
Students will also be exposed to the fundamental concerns of Greek and Roman society, culture and thought.
The texts will also serve to illustrate how the classical world was in some ways similar, and in other dramatically different, to our own, and highlight some of the themes which continue to make it fascinating and inspiring to modern observers.
This module introduces students to the history of ancient Greece in the archaic and classical periods.
Students will examine the emergence of Greek societies and city states (poleis), the various invasions of Greece by the Persians and their defeats at Marathon, Salamis and Plataea, competition between Athens and Sparta.
The module emphasises how different primary sources can be applied to the study of the archaic and classical Greek world, as well as considering different scholarly interpretations of these periods.
This module aims to provide an introduction to the basics of Latin for students with little to no prior experience of the language.
Students can gain the ability to translate and interpret sentences and short passages in prose and verse with confidence.
This can aid sensitive reading of primary sources from the Classical world in translation, as well as in the original at higher levels of study.
Please note: those students with A-Level Latin or equivalent, subject to successfully sitting a diagnostic Latin test before the first term of their first year, may choose to take ‘The Medieval World’ or ‘Empire and After: Colonialism and its Consequences’ instead of this module, however, they are required to continue their language studies in Elementary Latin II.
In this module, you will learn essential skills that bridge academic study and professional practice in today's interconnected world.
Through hands-on workshops and engaging activities, you'll develop crucial abilities in research, critical thinking, and effective communication that will serve you throughout your university journey and beyond.
You'll discover how to make the most of university resources, both online and on campus, while building confidence in academic writing, presentation skills, and collaborative work.
The module helps you navigate the transition to university-level study while preparing you for the evolving demands of the workplace.
Whether you're analysing academic sources, crafting professional communications, or working on team projects, you'll gain practical experience that will help set you up for success in both your degree program and future career.
This module offers an introduction to the art and archaeology of the Classical world.
Students have the opportunity to examine methods, themes and evidence relating to the ancient world through materials such as objects, art/visuals, architecture and archaeological remains, and learn how these can be used to make interpretations of society in the Greek and Roman worlds.
Students have the opportunity to engage with some of the most significant examples of material culture from the ancient world, and develop an understanding of the characters and artistic styles of different cultures and periods such as Minoan, Mycenaean, Archaic, Classical, Hellenistic, Etruscan, Archaic/early Roman, Republican, Imperial and Late Antique.
This module aims to provide students with a survey of imperial histories, at the same time as introducing some key conceptual and analytical tools for understanding the history of colonialism in a variety of pre-modern and modern contexts, from the perspectives of both colonisers and colonised.
This module engages students in a process of identifying and addressing inequities and inequalities within university life.
Students will explore current debates in Equity, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI), sustainability and decolonisation, and propose actionable solutions to create a more just, sustainable and equitable higher education environment(s).
In doing so they will gain a range of degree-relevant and employment-focused skills.
This module offers an introduction to the sources, approaches and methods necessary for the study of the medieval world.
Lectures provide a survey of key moments in medieval history from 300-1500, structured around the research specialisms of the module teaching team.
The module focuses on issues of religion and power in the Middle Ages, while there is a strong methodological focus on the materiality of the medieval period.
This module provides a survey of the history and archaeology of the eastern Mediterranean and the Middle East between the reign of Alexander the Great and the death of Cleopatra VII after the Roman victory at the Battle of Actium in 30 BC.
Students will have the opportunity to explore the political histories, power structures, cultural developments, economic processes and shifting ideologies associated with the major Hellenistic kingdoms and ending with the Roman conquest of the eastern Mediterranean region.
Teaching also considers how the Hellenistic period was a time of innovation, cultural connectivity, even globalisation, laying the foundations of a Hellenized world of city-states which endured into and defined the Roman construction of a world empire in its aftermath.
This module aims to provide a framework for career planning and preparing for the world of work, and forms part of the University’s skills and capabilities curriculum at level 2.
It provides the opportunity for students to develop the management skills needed for independent study, which is a compulsory part of level 3 study, and to begin to form a research strategy for the Classical Studies independent study later in the course.
This module surveys the history of the Roman Empire not as a succession of emperors and achievements, victories and defeats, but as a complex of experiments in government and of attitudes to governance.
Beginning with the transition from representative republican rule to the domination of an imperial dynasty and its network of élite dependants in the early first century, and concluding with the incipient takeover of this system by a newly Christianised ruling class in the early fourth century, students can explore the role of the emperor in the Roman world and the patterns of communication between him and his subjects.
Renaissance monarchs often employed artistic display to project royal authority.
Ruling elites commissioned pieces of art not only for the embellishment of their residences, but also as a suitable vehicle to display authority.
Kings and Queens commissioned tapestries, sculptures, royal palaces, or lavishly decorated printed books that narrated their achievements and omitted their failures.
This module examines the diverse ways rulers and their entourage imagined and created an image of kingship through the visual arts.
This module examines how and why the culture of Britain changed in the period of increasing contact with, and eventual incorporation into, the Roman Empire.
Examining the key material, behavioural, ideological and structural changes to society in the period c.
100 BC to AD 450, it will question to what degree each aspect was a wholesale incorporation of ‘foreign’ ideas, technologies and goods, a local interpretation and adoption of these importations into an existing social system, or a local creation that was distinctly Romano-British, if often termed ‘Roman’.
Students can gain an introduction to the historical and archaeological sources, approaches and methods necessary for the study of the ancient world.
Lectures provide a survey of key moments in history, 1000 BC-AD 400, structured around the research specialisms of the module teaching team.
Beginning with the Royal Historical Society’s “Race, Ethnicity and Equality Report” (published in 2018), which raises urgent questions on the diversity of staff, students and curricula at History departments in UK universities, the module analyses live debates on “Decolonising the Curriculum” in higher education.
We critique how histories of Empire, colonialism and slavery have been taught in Anglo-American settings, and introduce postcolonial analysis on archives, as well as the “Global South” and “indigenous knowledge” that have often been marginalised in Eurocentric historiographies.
Turning towards the University as a key apparatus of power in the contemporary world, the module then reveals the complex legacies of slavery in the making of a number of UK and US institutions including Liverpool, Bristol, Oxford (#RhodesMustFall), SOAS, University of Virginia and others.
Introducing the new field of “Critical University Studies” (CUS), students will learn about the emergence of universities in former colonies including India and South Africa, as well as the phenomenon of “transnational education” that entails the establishment, by prestigious European and American institutions, of satellite campuses around the world.
The module then unpacks public understandings of colonial history via recent scholarship on nationalism, patriotism, museums and memories, and ends with a hopeful reflection on pedagogies that will be more inclusive and intersectional in terms of race, class, gender, and sexual orientation.
This module will be particularly suited to students who intend to develop careers in education.
The cultural heritage sector increasingly offers opportunities for the application of digital technologies as communication, research and recording tools.
This module enables students to become familiar with some of these advanced recording techniques for the study and recording of objects.
This module aims to provide an introduction to the basics of Greek for students with little to no prior experience of the language.
Students can gain the ability to translate and interpret sentences and short passages in prose and verse up to intermediate difficulty.
This module aims to provide a continued introduction to the basics of Greek for students with little to no prior experience of the language.
Students can refine their ability to translate and interpret sentences and short to medium-length passages in prose and verse up to advanced difficulty.
This helps develop a foundation for sensitive reading of primary sources from the Classical world in translation, as well as in the original at higher levels of study.
Explore a wide range of cutting-edge digital approaches to studying the past through a significant and growing area of research, the digital humanities.
By studying this module, you can focus on developing the practical skills, techniques, and methodologies that can play a vital role in your future studies and career.
The module provides opportunities to enhance, analyse, and interpret humanistic endeavours through approaches such as social network analysis, digital mapping, data visualisation, and textual analysis.
You can also explore the impact and potential of artificial intelligence on the study of humanities in the digital worlds.
This student-led module allows students the opportunity to design a course of study equivalent to a 15-credit module.
In collaboration with a lecturer in the School of History and Heritage, students can choose A.
to produce an extended essay on a Classical Studies topic not specifically covered by current core or optional modules, B.
gain a new skill, or C.
undertake a creative project.
Examples of A.
might include ancient myth, epigrams, or drama; examples of B.
might include digital drawing or epigraphic skills; examples of C.
might include designing an exhibition.
This module aims to consolidate students' knowledge of the principles of the Latin language through sustained reading of substantial extracts from a variety of prose authors.
Classes are structured around guided translation and interpretation of select set texts by Caesar, Cicero and Livy, while commentary focuses on points of grammar, syntax and vocabulary, as well as of historical context and significance.
This is designed to provide experience in sensitive reading of primary sources from the Classical world as a foundation for original research.
How did people live and die in the middle ages?
Drawing on the research expertise of the medievalists in the School, the module seeks to answer this question by addressing key themes relating to the life cycles of medieval people, from their childhood and education, via the roles that they took on in life (within families and in public; peaceful and violent), to their deaths.
We will address primary sources that provide intimate insights into the everyday lives of medieval people: letters and autobiographies.
Such sources will be contrasted with those that offer a more 'top-down' vision of how medieval society should function, such as rulebooks and conduct manuals.
Finally, we will explore how people in the medieval period managed their material and spiritual interests through transactions recorded in documents such as charters and wills.
A key aim of the module is to develop your research and writing skills by providing you with an opportunity to produce an extended piece of research.
This, coupled with the intensive work with primary sources, will equip you to tackle a final year independent study in a wide range of medieval topics.
Students studying Renaissance Literature have the opportunity to look in detail at a range of texts from the late Elizabethan period to the mid-1630s, including work by Shakespeare, John Donne, Ben Jonson and Mary Wroth.
They also have the chance to explore the historical and cultural contexts in which these texts were produced, and the effects that they had on the politics and culture of the British Isles in the period.
Lectures aim to examine post-Reformation England and late humanism, patronage, gender relations, early modern literary theory, education and philosophy.
Classical Studies students have the opportunity to spend a term studying at one of the University’s partner institutions in North America or Europe where they undertake a course load of equivalent standard to that of the programme at Lincoln.
Studying abroad offers unique opportunities for personal development.
It offers enhanced sporting, cultural, and other activities to enhance your overall profile, alongside experience of adapting to and working effectively within a different academic culture.
Students must obtain a 2:1 or higher at Level 1 in order to be considered for participation in the exchange.
Students must complete a 500-word essay explaining why they wish to participate and may be required to attend an interview.
A limited number of places will be available each year, and participation is at the discretion of the module coordinator and the Programme Leader.
Teaching History deepens students' understanding of the practice of teaching history in the classroom.
The module encourages students, especially but not exclusively those who may be considering a career in education (or related industries), to think more deeply about pedagogic theory and teaching practice.
Students will be given the opportunity to gain some practical experience in instructing their peers and online audiences.
There will be a strong focus on reflecting on prior learning experiences and the module will begin by providing students with an overview of the history of history teaching.
History teaching will be examined at primary and secondary level, and in other educational contexts.
This module examines Arthurian narratives, myths, and traditions within a variety of contexts and media, and traces a variety of themes associated with Arthur and his court, including history and national identity; violence; kingship and rule; loyalty and betrayal; and love, sex, and gender roles.
Students will be expected to assess the importance of a myth that spans more than a millennium and address how medieval texts made meaning within their specific socio-cultural situations, as well as how later periods make meaning through their deployment of the medieval in new contexts.
This module aims to develop students' understanding of the political, social and cultural history of Late Antiquity (150-750), with a particular focus on two world-changing religious developments: the rise of Christianity and Islam.
Although the geographical focus of our studies will be on eastern Mediterranean lands of an empire ruled from Constantinople, known to later scholars as the Byzantine Empire, the geographical range of the module will be wide and include western Europe, including the western Mediterranean, Persia, Arabia, and ‘barbarian’ territories beyond the Roman frontiers on the Rhine and Danube.
This module introduces students to the lives and experiences of women in the ancient world.
By engaging with a wide range of material, visual and written evidence, students can investigate both the real historical circumstances of women’s lives and the ways in which they were constructed, represented and perceived.
The focus of this module is on the Roman world, and the material considered ranges in date from the Republican period to the end of the second Century AD.
Material from Greece, especially where it affects Roman art, literature and ideas, will also be considered.
Every student on the BA (Hons) Classical Studies degree programme at the University of Lincoln must produce adissertation.
This is an extended project which gives them the opportunity to demonstrate that they have acquired the skills to undertake detailed and substantial subject-specific research and writing founded on critical inquiry and analysis.
Students will have gained practice in designing and carrying out a research project of their own in the core CLS2003M module in Semester B of second year.
They will begin third year by developing their interests and ideas into a workable basis for a dissertation.
Over the course of the year, several lectures will be given which will guide students through important milestones in the process of preparing their independent study, supported by regular meetings with their individual supervisors.
This first semester separates out the preparatory research to evaluate progress and ensure success in the second semester.
This compulsory extended piece of work gives students the opportunity to demonstrate they have acquired the skills to undertake detailed and substantial subject-specific research and writing, founded on critical inquiry and analysis.
This module gives students the opportunity to analyse one text or author; object, assemblage or collection; structure or site, according to their own research interests (the evidence chosen will be agreed at the start of the term).
Paired with a tutor, each student can examine the evidence closely, find and read related research publications, and discuss each week.
This builds on the skills developed at Level 2 and provides students with the opportunity to direct their own learning, engage closely with primary sources, develop skills in analysis and critical thinking, and broaden their knowledge of the evidence and methods of studying the ancient world.
This module explores a key resource for understanding the thoughts, feelings and conversations of ancient people.
Graffiti in Greek and Latin (and other languages) were marked onto fixed and portable surfaces throughout the ancient Mediterranean world, and their informal and non-official nature offers a unique window into the lives and worldviews of people often invisible or marginal in standard documentary, literary and material sources
This module will give students an opportunity to engage in close philosophical study of texts by the most influential ancient philosophers.
Texts will be studied in English translation.
They will include works by Plato and Aristotle, as well as by less familiar philosophers of the ancient world (c.
500 BC-500 AD Greece and Rome).
The focus of the module will be philosophical, not interpretive or historical: students will be expected assess the credibility of the positions and arguments advanced by Plato, Aristotle and others and to develop their own views in dialogue with these thinkers.
The victories of Arab armies over the forces of the Byzantine and Persian Empires in the seventh century were of monumental importance.
Not only did they signal the decline of the two great superpowers of the late ancient world but they were accompanied, some scholars would argue caused, by the rise of a new monotheistic world religion: Islam.
The first half of the module seeks to understand the conquests of the Arab armies and the emergence of Islam historically and culturally, in two specific contexts: (1) political conflict between the Persian and Byzantine Empires, during which Arabia often acted as a military frontier and different Arab groups as allies to one side or another; (2) contact and competition between Christianity, Judaism and other religious traditions in Arabia.
The second half of the module explores how, after the initial victories over the Byzantine and Persian Empires, the new Islamic polity renewed itself, rolled forward further conquests, and focuses in particular on how an ‘Islamic’ culture was formed.
This module examines both the birth and development of the concept of chivalry in the Middle Ages.
Students can use a wide range of primary sources, as well as medieval and contemporary historiography, to explore how the role, image and function of medieval knights evolved over time.
The module will give students experience of volunteering (e.g.
teaching students Latin or Greek, volunteering for an archaeological project, etc.) and/or of relevant training (e.g.
curatorial, archaeological), and/or of work (e.g.
an internship in a museum).
It is expected that students will define, plan and undertake a specific project, which must be approved by the Module Coordinator.
Clio, the muse of History, had many and diverse children.
This module examines both the birth and development of historiography in Ancient Greek Literature.
Students will use a wide range of primary sources together with secondary sources and engage with diverse types of writing, ranging from military historians to ethnographers, biographers, geographers, and female historians.
This module will enable students to engage in the research and development of displays through the process of curating an exhibition for the museum or heritage sector.
Students will select objects and structure this selection through an appropriate narrative.
They will propose modes and examples of interpretation such as gallery text, audio or visual aids.
The emphasis will be on developing knowledge and understanding of the role and responsibilities of the curator, and the project will enable students to evidence a focused and critically rigorous curatorial rationale.
This module will explore the significance of time (the past, present, and future), belief, and power in landscapes of early historical Britain (c.
200 BC to c.
AD 800).
Landscape was the largest and most visible medium that people could use to communicate who they were and to negotiate their place in the world.
Landscape will be discussed as material culture writ large whereby the features and meanings of the past confront and constitute the creation of landscape in any given present.
The significance of, for example, Neolithic cursus monuments, Bronze Age barrows, Iron Age 'hillforts', and Romano-Celtic temples will be examined in how they endured and were (re)interpreted in later periods to create complex significances and communicate aspects of group identities.
The module will challenge boundaries by encouraging students to consider the complexity of relationship between past, present, and future, as well as between different 'site types', periods, and types of material.
By the late twelfth century, England’s rulers – the Angevin kings - were among the wealthiest and most powerful in Western Europe.
At the time of his accession, King Richard the Lionheart ruled over a vast collection of territories (later known as the Angevin Empire),  which stretched from the borders with Scotland in the North to the Pyrenees in the South.
Yet, at the time of his brother King John’s death in 1216, most Angevin possessions on the continent had been lost and baronial rebels had overrun more than half of England.
Using medieval records and chronicles in English translation, this module explores the dramatic reigns of King Richard and King John, and their reputations as rulers, asking whether the former really was a legend in his own lifetime, and whether the latter deserves to be remembered as one of our most disastrous medieval monarchs.
Together we will consider King Richard’s participation in the Third Crusade, the impact of his absence on his English subjects, and his struggle to retain Angevin territories on the Continent.
We will also analyse the loss of Normandy under King John, John’s violent quarrel with Pope Innocent III over the appointment of Stephen Langton as archbishop of Canterbury, the growth of opposition to John in England, the birth of Magna Carta, and the outcome of the civil war that was still raging on John’s death (including the Battle of Lincoln of 1217).
One of the ways in which early modern monarchs and rulers legitimised their authority and projected their power was through architecture and urban design.
In this period capital cities across Europe, America and Asia were embellished with architecture and urban design inspired by Renaissance ideals of social order.
This module examines the ways rulers imagined and built a number of imperial capital cities across Europe, America and Asia.
This module aims to consolidate students' knowledge of and comfort with the principles of the Greek language through sustained reading of substantial extracts from a variety of prose authors.
Classes will be structured around guided translation and interpretation of set texts in Attic dialect by Xenophon, Thucydides, Plato and Aristotle.
Commentary focuses on points of grammar, syntax and vocabulary, as well as historical context and significance.
This module aims to consolidate students' knowledge of and comfort with the principles of the Greek language through sustained reading of substantial extracts from a variety of verse authors.
Classes will be structured around guided translation and interpretation of select set texts in Attic dialect by Sophocles, Euripides and Aristophanes, and in Ionic dialect by Homer.
Students can also acquire a familiarity with metre and scansion in Greek poetry.
This module aims to refine and extend students' mastery of the Latin language through focused reading of unadapted extracts from a single prose author.
Classes will be structured around guided translation and interpretation of set passages, while commentary will encompass points of grammar, syntax and vocabulary; peculiarities of authorial style in the context of other major writers; historical situation and significance; and major studies of the author and text.
Making Militants explores the role of violent teaching practices of various sorts in the making of men and women in Late Antiquity.
Focusing on the fourth, fifth and sixth centuries, it addresses a pivotal period in the transition from the ancient to the medieval world, surveying the multiple small-scale arenas that made up the Late Antiquity – the household, the schoolroom, the barracks and the monastery.
By close reading of letters, biographical accounts, rulebooks, speeches and a wide range of other sources, we consider how violent educative practices made people who were capable of operating in a changing, unpredictable and often dangerous world.
The men and women who were made in such spaces were the products of a society that was fundamentally violent, their own violence a product of long-established socialisation practices rather than acts of anti-social deviance.
This module will investigate the history of imperial Britain through material culture.
The objects of study will range from trophies looted in battle and a drum transported with slaves to Virginia, to African sculpture depicting Europeans.
Historians increasingly recognise the fresh insights that objects offer to major themes in imperial history such as gender, race and class.
This module responds to these new academic developments and will use objects and their biographies to study key phases and themes in the history of the British Empire.
Tracing the long history of such objects can enable us to explore how objects change meanings as they move through various colonial and post-colonial contexts.
How can history and heritage be more inclusive of LGBTIQ+ lives and experiences?
And how can queer perspectives help us to better understand the complexities of the past?
This module responds to these questions by examining queer histories from the Ancient World to the present day.
Taking a global view, the module investigates how concepts such as sex, sexuality, gender, the body, friendship, and family have been organised in diverse ways across different times and places.
In addition to considering how particular sexual and gender identities have emerged, the module also engages with ideas of queer history as a method for historical enquiry: one that is sceptical about binary analyses and linear narratives of progress.
Although early modern England was a kingdom, governed by a monarch, many historians have claimed that there was a strong ‘republican’ undercurrent to Tudor and Stuart political thought.
This module introduces students to the key approaches and methodologies of the history of ideas by focusing upon the various ways in which scholars have studied and conceptualised republicanism in early modern England and the ongoing debate surrounding the origin, content and influence of republican ideas in the period 1500-1700.
This module concentrates on the works of Geoffrey Chaucer, with a particular emphasis on The Canterbury Tales, perhaps Chaucer’s most famous work.
Students will have the opportunity to examine the General Prologue and a variety of tales in relation to their historical context and literary antecedents, and, throughout, specific attention will be given to questions of genre (ranging from fable and epic to satire and romance), literary authority, narrative construction, and medieval aesthetics.
Slavery was fundamental to the society and economy of Late Antiquity, as it was throughout much of the ancient world.
This module explores the different ways in which slavery and dependency structured how the people of the late ancient world lived, as far as possible focusing on the experiences of the enslaved themselves.
Drawing on laws, literary texts, religious writings and material and visual culture, students will gain a deep understanding of the complexities of slavery, will develop their vocabulary for talking about enslavement as social and cultural praxes, and will learn how to use a range of research resources for examining the social worlds of Late Antiquity.
The module will be assessed through the production of a series of blog posts, so that students will also learn the valuable skills of writing for the web and creating interesting and engaging digital content.
The module encourages students, especially but not exclusively those who may be considering a career in education (or related industries), to think more deeply about pedagogic theory and teaching practice in History.
The module is designed to give students practical experience of the workplace.
It is expected that students will define, plan and undertake a specific project.
Students have the opportunity to gain experience and skills in a range of tasks appropriate to sector-specific professional roles.
Please note if you choose to undertake a work placement, preferably during the first term of the third year, both of your optional choices in the second term must be Classical Studies modules (excluding Medieval, Early Modern, Conservation, and Digital Heritage modules).
This module introduces some of the Classical literature from Greek and Roman times.
Students have the opportunity to engage with a selection of texts to develop an understanding of Greek and Roman society, culture and thought.
Texts also serve to illustrate how the Classical world was in some ways similar, and in others dramatically different, to our own, and highlights some of the themes which continue to make it fascinating and inspiring to modern observers.
The module aims to equip students with the skills necessary to communicate their learning in an academic environment and will also support students in adjusting to the demands of higher education.
The core objective of the course will be to develop students’ research, critical thinking and writing skills.
It is designed to enable students to use the library effectively, to think critically about sources and to understand the basic elements of argument.
Students will be introduced to the critical essay structure and how to correctly reference sources using the prescribed method.
Skills learned and dispositions developed on this module will prove vital for studying and writing throughout their degrees and afterwards.
This module aims to provide a continued introduction to the basics of Latin for students with little to no prior experience of the language.
Students can consolidate their knowledge of the principles of the Latin language through sustained reading of substantial extracts from a variety of verse authors.
Classes are structured around guided translation and interpretation of select set texts by Catullus, Virgil and Ovid, while commentary will focus on points of grammar, syntax and vocabulary, as well as of historical context and significance.
Students can acquire a familiarity with metre and scansion in Latin poetry.
Students taking Restoration Literature, the companion module to Renaissance Literature, can study in detail a range of texts written between the era of the English Civil War and the first decade of the eighteenth Century, including work by John Milton; Andrew Marvell; Aphra Behn; and John Wilmot, the 2nd Earl of Rochester.
Students have the opportunity to also study the historical and cultural contexts in which these texts were produced.
Lectures aim to examine the origins and effects of the civil war, the ethics of rebellion and reform, the Restoration theatre, religious controversies, gender relations, developing philosophical thought and Restoration manners.
Almost all historians share the view that the social, economic and political structures of Europe in 1000 A.D.
were significantly different to those that characterised the western superpower of Late Antiquity, the Roman Empire.
In this challenging module, students will be encouraged to engage with a range of source material that will allow them to come to their own conclusions.
Given this wide focus, students will have the opportunity to immerse themselves in the fascinating story of post-Carolingian Europe in such a way that they enhance their abilities to think comparatively, a crucial weapon in the historian’s armoury.
This module aims to refine and extend students' mastery of the Latin language through focussed reading of unadapted extracts from a single verse author chosen according to available staff expertise and interest (e.g.
Martial).
Classes will be structured around guided translation and interpretation of set passages, while commentary will encompass: (1) points of grammar, syntax, and vocabulary; (2) questions of metre and scansion; (3) peculiarities of authorial style, in the context of other major writers and the rules of versification; (4) historical situation and significance; (5) major studies of the author and text.
This will offer further practical experience of reading primary sources from the Classical world in the original for the purpose of original research in dialogue with relevant scholarship.
Historian, journalist, political commentator and gossip columnist Matthew Paris, monk of St Albans, wrote what is still one of our main sources for British history of the thirteenth century.
This module looks at Matthew Paris’s Great Chronicle, considering both Matthew himself and what he tells us about thirteenth-century English society.
Students have the opportunity to think about what history was in the thirteenth-century and about attitudes to foreigners and national identity; power and poverty; propaganda and fiction; and time, space and the apocalypse.
Assessments include written assignments (source analyses, commentaries, reports, research essays); in-class presentations; in-class; seminar participation.
Brandon shares his positive experience studying BA (Hons) Classical Studies at the University of Lincoln.
He shares their favourite parts of the course and how the University has prepared them for their careers.
Students on this course may have the opportunity to pursue a work placement in the summer between the second and third years of the course, with a dedicated module for write-up in the first term of third year.
The placement enables you to gain practical experience of the workplace and students will normally define, plan, and undertake a specific project while on placement.
In addition, you can experience of a range of tasks appropriate to sector-specific professional skills
When you are on an optional placement in the UK or overseas, or studying abroad, you will be required to cover your own transport, accommodation, and general living costs.
Placements can range from a few weeks to a full year.
If your placement means you spend less than ten weeks on the University of Lincoln campus, then a Placement Year Fee is payable to the University of Lincoln during this year for students joining in 2025/26 and beyond.
Classical Studies students have the opportunity to spend a term studying abroad at one of the University’s partner institutions in North America or Europe.
Studying abroad is an opportunity to develop both academically and personally.
In addition to academic study, study abroad can offer enhanced sporting and cultural activities, alongside the basic experience of adapting to, and working effectively within, a different academic culture.
While studying abroad, you will be required to cover your own transport, accommodation, and general living costs.
Undertaking a Classical Studies degree can develop skills in textual and visual analysis, translating and interpreting, thinking critically, and presenting complex information with clarity and authority.
Graduates may find employment in museums and galleries, publishing and administration, teaching and research, and in other areas such as advertising, consultancy, and public relations.
Students who wish to pursue academic careers can progress with studies at Master’s or PhD level.
Some students may choose law conversion, a teaching qualification, or other professional training.
Tour the magnificent city of Lincoln with two of our students as they talk you through some of the historic highlights Lincoln has to offer.
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications.
This must achieved from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent Level 3 qualifications.
A Levels: CCC to BBC
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 96 to 112 UCAS points to be achieved from 45 Level 3 credits.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/cmpcmsub:
3 - 4 years
G403
Society is undergoing a digital revolution, which is driven by the increasing use of technology and the transformative potential of artificial intelligence.
Our BSc (Hons) Computer Science degree aims to equip students with the knowledge required to design and develop a diverse array of technological solutions to real-world challenges.
Emphasis is placed on cutting-edge topics such as artificial intelligence and machine learning; alongside core computer science disciplines.
This ensures that your learning remains at the forefront of research and align with the needs of the computing industry.
The programme is structured to provide a comprehensive foundation in computer science, enabling you to develop the software development, analytical, and problem-solving skills essential for success in the dynamic and exciting computing industry.
The curriculum encompasses digital technologies such as artificial intelligence, mobile application development, and robotics, which are driving advancements in various aspects of society.
Graduates with expertise in these areas are securing employment and advancing their careers in diverse sectors including finance, healthcare, telecommunications, power and energy, and cyber security.
Accredited by BCS, The Chartered Institute for IT
Access to a range of specialist equipment
Focus on cutting-edge topics
Gain industry recognised qualifications at no extra cost
Undertake individual projects on a topics of interest
In the first year, you can delve into the fundamental areas of computer science, developing skills in problem solving, programming, software engineering, and computer architectures.
The second year builds on this foundation, covering artificial intelligence, full stack development and networking.
Throughout the year, you can  collaborate on a team software engineering project.
In the third year, you're able to explore core topics such as machine learning, mobile application development, and parallel programming.
You can also choose from optional areas of study that are of specific interest, such as autonomous mobile robotics, graphics, image processing, and cyber security.
There is also an opportunity to undertake a substantial individual project on a topic of interest under the supervision of an expert in the field.
The programme's modular structure typically consists of 12 weeks per module, comprising of lectures and supported workshop sessions for hands-on practical experience.
You are expected to engage actively with the material presented in lectures and workshops, supplementing your in-class experience with a minimum of two to three hours of self-directed study for every hour spent in formal instruction.
Industry certification opportunities are available to further enhance students' skills and employability.
This module aims to equip students with an understanding of time and space efficiency, enabling them to select appropriate algorithms for the programming problems they are presented with.
Students will be introduced to relevant theoretical concepts around algorithms and data structures in lectures, together with practical experience of implementing them in the workshops.
This module introduces the fundamentals of computer hardware.
You will be provided with the knowledge of how core computer components function and how they come together to form a single system.
The module will introduce data representation and digital logic, followed by a study of the Central Processing Unit, memory, interconnections and I/O devices.
Standard, sequential (i.e.
von Neumann) architecture will be compared to modern hardware platforms that are based on multi-core processors, parallel units and embedded systems.
This module introduces you to software constructs and the development of programs using a high-level programming language.
You can learn about standard programming practices and develop software using the object-oriented programming paradigm.
Attention is paid to the fundamentals that constitute a complete computer program including layout, structure, and functionality.
There is also emphasis upon the use of debugging tools and unit testing.
This module aims to introduce the main components of the software design and development process that ensure software is fit for purpose and of sufficient quality.
You can develop your practical understanding and appreciation of frameworks for software development processes using case studies and practical implementations.
In this module students will have the opportunity to study both the theoretical design concepts which underpin all operating systems and, through case studies, the practical implementation techniques of current operating systems.
Special attention will be given to shell programming languages and examples, to practically implement concepts and techniques at the basis of the various operating systems.
In industry, computer scientists and software developers work in teams to create solutions to a variety of different problems.
This module aims to introduce you to the art of problem solving, teamwork, and the industry employment process.
The professional aspects of working in the computing industry are explored to help equip you with the necessary skillsets required for an industry setting.
This module aims to provide a comprehensive analysis of the general principles and practices of advanced programming with respect to software development.
Notions and techniques of advanced programming are emphasised in the context of analysis, design, and implementation of software and algorithms.
Great importance is placed upon the Object-Oriented paradigm and related concepts applied to algorithm and software development using the C++ programming language, however students will also be exposed to the principles and underlying theories pertaining to functional programming.
The module aims to provide a modern introduction to the concepts of symbolic artificial intelligence, set in the context of intelligent agents.
The module covers the concepts such as state space representations and search, heuristic and adversarial search methods, and optimization techniques.
The module also covers knowledge representation, AI planning, and some nonstatistical, machine learning methods.
This module will explore the ‘full stack’ of web application technologies.
You will have the opportunity to learn how to design and develop both the frontend and backend of modern web applications.
The module aims to cover the three-tier architecture approach for developing web applications: i) presentation tier, ii) application tier, and iii) data tier.
You can learn how to use the relevant technologies for each tier, encompassing web presentation, application programmable interfaces (APIs), and database technologies.
The overall aim of the module is for you to learn the how to develop robust client-server applications using secure and scalable technologies.
This module considers basic computer communications and networking with an emphasis on the Internet Protocol.
The module examines the Internet Protocol as a model for intercommunication in modern network implementations.
Additionally the module examines fundamental design features of a Network Protocol and the need to implement security in the modern Internet.
The module adopts a standards driven approach and determines methods used in modern network systems for the distribution of data.
An emphasis on network infrastructure and protocols underpins the module together with basic security considerations important in modern network architectures.
Aspects of security concepts are extended to consider mechanisms that counter various forms of threat that exist from different sources.
This purpose of this module is to provide students with the experience of working as part of a team within a simulated commercial setting.
Students will go through the key phases of software development from ideation through to development, testing, delivery, and publishing.
Through the module students will learn how to manage and deliver commercial software development projects.
This will include ethical, social and professional issues, project management, communication, time management, and team working strategies.
This module develops on the skills learnt in the first year and places them in a simulated commercial setting.
The artefact produced as part of the software development process should be suitable for inclusion within a professional portfolio.
This module provides students with the opportunity to develop knowledge of the processes and principles of Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) and User Experience Design (UXD) starting with a history and overview of the role HCI in furthering the field of computer science.
The module will guide students through notions of usability and accessibility, user-centred design and requirements analysis, prototyping, statistical analysis, and qualitative evaluation using state of the art methods and techniques.
The professional, ethical, social, and legal issues in designing and studying interactive technology will be considered throughout.
This module is optional for single honours Computer Science students and enables them to spend a year at second level studying at one of the University’s approved partner institutions.
During the year abroad, students share classes with local students and study on a suite of locally-delivered taught modules which have been approved in advance by the University.
The module introduces the fundamentals of machine learning and principled application of machine learning techniques to extract information and insights from data.
The module covers supervised and unsupervised learning methods.
The primary aim is to provide students with knowledge and applied skills in machine learning tools and techniques which can be used to solve real-world data science problems.
This module aims to equip you with the skills to design and develop connected, data-driven mobile applications, leveraging smartphone sensor technologies such as location, camera and proximity sensors.
Consuming RESTful web services will be an area of focus for the data driven components of mobile app development.
You can utilise contemporary tools to build mobile applications by applying industry-standard techniques for both code-base development and user-centered design.
Parallel Programming is an important modern paradigm in computer science, and a promising direction for keeping up with the expected exponential growth in the discipline.
Executing multiple processes at the same time can tremendously increase computational throughput, not only benefiting scientific computations, but also leading to new exciting applications like real-time animated 3D graphics, video processing, and physics simulation.
The relevance of parallel computing is especially prominent due to availability of modern, affordable computer hardware utilising multi-core and/or large number of massively parallel units.
This module offers students the chance to demonstrate their ability to work independently on a significant, in-depth project requiring the coherent and critical application of computer science theory and skills.
Students must initially produce a project proposal and related materials to frame the work, specifying clear, specific, academically justified, and appropriately scoped aims and objectives, as well as feasible means for fulfilling those aims and objectives.
Students then work independently to fulfil those project goals.
Throughout this process students are expected to demonstrate the application of practical development and analytical skills, innovation and/or creativity, and the synthesis of information, ideas and practices to generate a coherent problem solution.
The module aims to introduce the main concepts of Autonomous Mobile Robotics, providing an understanding of the range of processing components required to build physically embodied robotic systems, from basic control architectures to spatial navigation in real-world environments.
Students will have the opportunity to be introduced to relevant theoretical concepts around robotic sensing and control in the lectures, together with a practical “hands on” approach to robot programming in the workshops.
This module provides an understanding of the challenges in cyber security faced by society and industry.
This includes an examination of the impact of threats and develops an understanding of mechanisms to reduce the risk of attack.
The module examines a range of cyber threats and attack types and introduces strategies to mitigate these.
It also prompts students to consider the legal, social, and ethical implications of cyber security.
This module introduces the student to the theory, principles, methods, and techniques of 3D computer graphics.
The specialised mathematical underpinnings are explored along with their practical application in algorithms commonly used in videogame development.
The development of skills in implementing computer graphic applications with modern, standard graphics pipelines encourages students to develop their programming skills while observing the theory of 3D graphics in practice.
This is delivered through a hands-on games programming context where students will be encouraged to develop interactive 3D graphics applications using industry standard tools and technologies.
This module aims to develop students' awareness and ability to implement and utilise mathematical approaches commonly seen in real-time systems such as videogames.
In addition, modern graphical techniques will be explored, with reference to current industry practice, and students will be expected to demonstrate an ability to analyse requirements, systematically appraise existing methods, and employ critical-thinking in the development of their own pieces of work.
Digital image processing techniques are used in a wide variety of application areas such as computer vision, robotics, remote sensing, industrial inspection and medical imaging.
Image processing is the study of algorithms that take images as an input and return information about these images.
This module aims to provide a broad introduction to the field of image processing, culminating in a practical understanding of how to apply and combine techniques to various image-related applications.
Students will have the opportunity to extract useful data from raw images and interpret the result.
Realistic physics simulation is a key component for many modern technologies including computer games, video animation, medical imaging, robotics, etc.
This wide range of applications benefiting from real-time physics simulation is a result of recent advances in developing new efficient simulation techniques and the common availability of powerful hardware.
The main application area considered in this module is computer games, but the taught content has much wider relevance and can be applied to other areas of Computer Science.
In this module, students can develop their understanding of how to design and develop and applications for Virtual and Augmented Reality (VR/AR) platforms.
The module will start by introducing students to underpinning theoretical concepts of user experience in VR platforms, such as immersion, presence, fidelity, and embodiment.
These will be used as a framework to explore a wide range of applications, primarily training and education, medical applications, therapy, and entertainment.
Fundamental design aspects will be introduced, such as interfaces and interactions, interactions with non-human characters, locomotion, and object manipulations.
Within the context of training/education, design considerations relating to learning outcomes, knowledge transfer, and retention will be discussed.
Students are expected to consider the role of fidelity in relation to safety critical training, such as medical applications, and the advantages of VR over traditional displays will also be considered.
Students can also learn how to assess user experience in VR using a variety of tools (primarily self-report measures).
Students can also look at limitations such as simulator sickness, and accessibility of movement-based interfaces.
The AR section of this module will mirror the VR topics mentioned, and compare and contrast AR platforms with VR, to enable students to make appropriate platform choices.
Alongside theoretical aspects, students can engage in parallel practical workshops, during which they will put into practice some of the concepts discussed in lectures.
This will involve the use of appropriate development tools and platforms, and consideration of design aspects.
Students have the chance to build an application during workshops, and use this as a tool to conduct an evaluation related to user experience.
This module introduces students to software constructs and the development of programs using a high-level programming language.
Students will learn about standard programming practices and develop software using the object-oriented programming paradigm.
This module will outline the main components of the software design and development process that ensure software is fit for purpose and of sufficient quality.
Students will develop their practical understanding and appreciation of frameworks for software development processes using case studies and practical implementations.
This module aims to introduce the art of problem solving, teamwork, and the industry employment process to help equip students with the skillsets required for an industry setting.
You can utilize contemporary tools to build mobile applications by applying industry-standard techniques for both code-base development and user-centered design.
A diverse range of assessment methods are used on the programme and are designed to evaluate your mastery of theoretical computer science and practical proficiencies.
Assessment strategies include in-class tests, individual and group projects, and time-constrained assessments.
The assessments reflect the applied nature of computer science, as such, a significant proportion of overall assessment is weighted towards coursework, emphasizing the hands-on experience required by the computing industry.
This degree has been accredited by BCS, The Chartered Institute for IT.
Accreditation is a mark of assurance that the degree meets the standards set by BCS.
A full CITP accredited degree entitles you to apply for professional membership of BCS and meets the evidence of breadth of knowledge in the assessment for registration as a Chartered IT Professional (CITP).
Students on the BSc Computer Science programme can gain cutting-edge industry certification in areas such as Cloud Data and Cloud AI services.
Examples of the certification exams you can achieve as part of the programme include Microsoft Azure Fundamentals and Microsoft Azure AI Fundamentals.
Through our membership to the Microsoft Learn for Educators programme, Microsoft certification opportunities can be taken with no additional cost to students.
There are also opportunities to gain Cisco digital badges.
Students have access to cutting-edge and dedicated computing labs to support their studies.
This includes access to high-performance PCs with Nvidia GPUs.
There is also a range of equipment for loan, including Raspberry Pi devices, smartphones, robots, and virtual reality equipment such as HTC Vive and Oculus Quest.
The recently opened games studio provides students with a multifunctional space to study, work on team projects, relax and socialise with each other.
Emma Baskerville
BSc (Hons) Computer Science
This programme is optionally available in a sandwich mode variant.
If you choose the sandwich placement option, you can take a year out in industry between the second and third year.
This provides the opportunity to gain industrial experience.
You will be supported throughout your placement, which can be overseas.
You are expected to cover your own travel, accommodation, and living costs.
There are also opportunities to take shorter work placements, for example over the summer period, and to be involved in academic’s research projects.
Our students have taken placements at a wide range of companies, including CGI IT UK, BMW, Lincolnshire County Council, Lloyds Banking Group, and Intel Corporation (UK) Ltd.
This degree aims to equip you with the software development, analytical, and problem-solving skills that make you well-placed for computer and technology-related roles across a range of sectors.
Recent graduates have secured roles at major companies, such as McLaren, Barclays, BT, Sky, CGI, Google, Accenture, Lincoln County Hospital, and Microsoft.
Our graduates have gone taken on to a variety of roles including becoming software developers, IT Analysts, data scientists, platform engineers and cyber security experts.
Graduates have also opted to remain at the University of Lincoln for further study, academic positions and as members of our technical support team.
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels.
International students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element.
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk.
GCSE's:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English and Maths .

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/cmpcmsum:
4-5 years
8 years
G404
Our MComp Computer Science degree is a four-year integrated Master's degree that aims to equip you with the knowledge required to design, develop, and research into a diverse array of technological solutions for real-world challenges.
This ensures that your studies remain at the forefront of research and align with the needs of the computing industry.
The programme is structured to provide a comprehensive foundation in computer science, enabling you to build the software development, analytical, and problem-solving skills essential for success in the dynamic and exciting computing industry.
The second year builds on this foundation, covering artificial intelligence, full stack development, and networking.
Throughout the year, you can collaborate on a team software engineering project.
In the third year, you can explore core topics such as machine learning, mobile application development, and parallel programming.
In the third year there are also opportunities to undertake a substantial individual project on a topic of interest under the supervision of an expert in the field.
Students who choose this four-year MComp programme study a range of optional modules at Master's level and complete a team research-driven project with real-world applicability.
This module aims to cover the theoretical fundamentals and practical applications of decision-making, problem-solving and learning abilities in software agents.
Search is introduced as a unifying framework for Artificial Intelligence (AI), followed by key topics including blind and informed search algorithms, planning and reasoning, both with certain and uncertain (e.g.
probabilistic) knowledge.
Practical exercises in AI programming will complement and apply the theoretical knowledge acquired to real-world problems.
This module aims to explore current methodologies in the field of computer vision, covering a range of aspects in capturing, processing, analysing and interpreting rich visual content.
The aim is to offer students with a deep understanding and to allow an exposure to the latest developments in computer vision, equipping them with knowledge in practical depth.
The module will also provide the opportunity for training in programming skills (e.g.
Matlab), tools and methods that are necessary for the implementation of computer vision systems.
The module will also cover applications of computer vision in various fields, such as in object recognition/tracking, medical image analysis, multimedia indexing and retrieval and  intelligent surveillance systems, allowing the students the opportunity to establish a full awareness to the technology advance in this rapidly evolving field.
This module aims to explore advanced topics using a contemporary object-oriented programming language.
The objective is to prepare students for professional-level programming in scientific and commercial computing, and to support programming tasks in other modules of this award.
Students can explore a range of programming topics through a series of lectures and practical workshops, and will work on producing an individual programming assignment.
The MComp Research Project involves both team-based and individual work that requires students to apply and integrate theoretical knowledge and practical skills from the breadth of their experience with computer science sub-disciplines.
The form and nature of this project work is negotiable and provides opportunities to work in simulated commercial settings that are scenario based or primarily focused on a specific research domain.
Students will work towards developing a significant software artefact that supports the research area of interest and present the outcomes of their work through written and presentation components.
This module introduces the main concepts of Autonomous Mobile Robotics, providing an understanding of the range of processing components required to build physically embodied robotic systems, from basic control architectures to spatial navigation in real-world environments.
Students are introduced to relevant theoretical concepts around robotic sensing and control in the lectures, together with a practical “hands on” approach to robot programming in the workshops.
Working at Master's level, students can research the area in depth and produce critical reports of their findings.
As a Master's level module students are also encouraged to consider current research in the field of cyber security.
This module introduces students to the theory, principles, methods, and techniques of 3D computer graphics.
This will be delivered through a hands-on games programming context where students will be encouraged to develop interactive 3D graphics applications using industry standard tools and technologies.
In addition, modern graphical techniques will be explored, with reference to current industry practice and students will be expected to demonstrate an ability to analyse requirements, systematically appraise existing methods and employ critical thinking in the development of their own work.
Realistic physics simulation is a key component for many modern technologies including computer games, video animation, medical imaging, and robotics.
The main application area considered in this module is computer games, but the taught content has much wider relevance and can be applied to other areas of computer science.
In this module student can develop and design applications for Virtual and Augmented Reality (VR/AR) platforms.
Students can consider different areas of applications, including training, simulation, medical/therapeutic, games, and other interactive experiences.
This will comprise theoretical aspects of design for VR/AR systems, including such topics as locomotion and control methods, representation of virtual worlds, and non-human characters.
It will also cover practicalities of development and deployment using appropriate tools.
Students can also look at limitations such as simulator sickness, and accessibility, and how to evaluate user experience.
Students can build and test their own applications using VR and AR equipment.
112 to 120 UCAS Tariff points.
A Level: BBC to BBB
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction Distinction Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 112 to 120 UCAS points to be achieved from 45 Level 3 credits.
International Baccalaureate: 30 points overall.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/cmpcaiub:
G412
Artificial intelligence (AI) is a dynamic and multifaceted branch of computer science concerned with building intelligent machines capable of making decisions and solving problems that typically require human intelligence.
The demand for expertise in computer science and artificial intelligence is rapidly increasing across organisations globally.
Such technical expertise is required by a wide range of industries, including health care, agriculture, transportation, and finance.
Our BSc (Hons) Computer Science with Artificial Intelligence programme aims to develop confident and informed graduates who will be able to contribute to the advancement of current and emerging technologies.
The artificial intelligence theme focuses on developing knowledge and practice in highly pertinent areas such as natural language processing; deep learning and its applications, and the ethical considerations of artificial intelligence systems.
Taught by world-leading AI researchers
Undertake individual projects on topics of interest
In the first year, you can delve into the fundamental areas of computer science, developing skills in problem solving, programming, software engineering, and data science.
The second year builds on this foundation, covering artificial intelligence, full stack development, networking, and natural language processing.
In the third year, you are able to explore machine learning, mobile application development, image processing, autonomous mobile robotics and deep learning.
There will also be opportunities to undertake a substantial individual project on a topic of interest under the supervision of an expert in the field.
You are expected to engage actively with the material presented in lectures and workshops, supplementing their in-class experience with a minimum of two to three hours of self-directed study for every hour spent in formal instruction.
Industry certification opportunities are available to further enhance your skills and employability.
Data science is a relatively new field of study that utilises algorithms, statistics, and visualisation methods to answer scientific questions using data.
In this module, students learn how to load, transform, visualise, and extract knowledge from data using their skills as programmers.
Students can also gain experience in using interactive programming environments (e.g.
IPython/Jupyter) and open-source libraries (e.g., numpy, matplotlib, pandas) that are widely used by data scientists in industry.
In the latter part of the module, students will work in groups to analyse a real-world dataset and present their findings to their peers.
In this module, students learn how computers can be used to analyse and process the natural language that we use in our everyday lives.
Natural language is a data type like no other, and presents a unique set of challenges for which the field of Natural Language Processing (NLP) has sought to provide answers.
Common applications of NLP include machine translation, text summarisation, question answering, chatbots, grammar checking, and many others.
Inspired by the biological neurons that make up our brains, artificial neural networks (ANNs) are simple mathematical models that date back to the work of McCulloch and Pitts in the 1940s.
Today, ANNs are the powerhouses of modern AI solutions and are regarded as one of the most important technical innovations of the past decade.
In this module, we will follow the chronology of the deep learning revolution, starting with the basics of deep feed-forward networks and how to train them effectively.
We will then work our way forwards in time and study convolutional neural network (CNN) architectures for images, recurrent neural networks (RNN) for time series data, and unsupervised models for representation learning.
Towards the end of the module, students explore how deep nets learn and study the issues that can impact their real-world utility and the implications for society at large.
You are expected to cover their own travel, accommodation, and living costs.
___________________________________________________

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/cmpclcub:
The BSc Computer Science with Cloud Computing programme offers an exciting curriculum designed to equip you with the foundational knowledge and advanced practical skills necessary to excel in the fast-growing cloud computing industry.
The programme integrates core computer science principles with a strong emphasis on the design, deployment, and maintenance of modern cloud-based solutions.
The curriculum is also aligned with industry-recognised cloud vendor certifications, enabling you to build and validate industry-transferable competencies in critical areas of cloud computing.
By gaining expertise in industry-standard practices and technologies, you can prepare for roles such as a cloud developer, solutions architect, or data analyst.
Build your skills through practical application of knowledge
Learn from industry-experienced experts
Gain industry experience through placement opportunities
Attain industry-recognised certifications as part of the programme
Use dedicated computer laboratories for your work
Industry-informed curriculum
You can build extensive knowledge of cloud computing concepts, encompassing cloud-based computers, storage, and networking, whilst developing practical skills in cloud architecture design, deployment, and development.
A key focus is on cloud service deployments, a theme woven throughout the curriculum and delivered through topics such as Infrastructure-as-Code (IaC) and serverless computing for API development.
Cloud data services are also a key topical area, with attention given to data transformation and analysis using cloud data platform.
You can learn through a blend of lectures and workshop sessions where you can gain hands-on experience.
In your final year you may also can explore a specific area of cloud computing and undertake in a significant cloud-based project.
You will also be expected to undertake two to three hours of self-directed study for every hour taught.
This module provides a foundational understanding of cloud computing and cybersecurity principles.
Students explore core cloud concepts like virtualization, service models (IaaS, PaaS, SaaS), and deployment models (public, private, hybrid).
Alongside this, they will learn about the security challenges inherent in connected systems and cloud environments, covering topics such as data security, identity and access management, compliance, and defence in depth.
Students will have the opportunity to learn how to design and develop both the frontend and backend of modern web applications.
The module will cover the three-tier architecture approach for developing web applications: i) presentation tier, ii) application tier, and iii) data tier.
Students learn how to use the relevant technologies for each tier, encompassing web presentation, application programmable interfaces (APIs), and database technologies.
The overall aim of the module is for students to learn the how to develop robust client-server applications using secure and scalable technologies.
This module introduces students to the principles and practices of Site Reliability Engineering (SRE) for large and small organisations.
Students learn how to build, maintain, and scale highly reliable and performant systems using automation, and monitoring.
The module will cover core SRE concepts, including availability, performance, monitoring, incident management, and security, as well as practical skills in areas like infrastructure as code, load balancing, and capacity/cost planning.
This module provides an in-depth exploration of the rapidly transforming landscape of cloud computing, focusing on the cutting-edge technologies and architectural patterns that are shaping the next generation of distributed systems.
Beyond traditional cloud concepts, this module delves into innovative areas such as serverless computing, container orchestration (Kubernetes), edge computing, cloud-native architectures, and AI/ML integration within cloud environments.
On the course you can access industry-standard facilities and dedicated computing labs to support your studies and enable you to hone you skills.
This includes access to high-performance PCs with Nvidia GPUs as well as access to cloud vendor platforms, for example Microsoft Azure and Google Cloud Platform, for real world cloud service deployments.
Students on the course have the opportunity to gain cutting-edge industry certification in areas such as Cloud Data and Cloud AI services.
Examples of the certification exams and digital badges you can achieve as part of the programme include Microsoft Azure Data Fundamentals and Microsoft Azure AI Fundamentals.
This programme gives you the option to complete a sandwich year.
If you choose the sandwich placement option, you take a year out to work in industry and gain experience between the second and third year.
If you wish, this can be abroad.
You will be supported throughout your placement.
A Placement Year Fee is payable to the University of Lincoln during this year for those joining in 2025/26 and beyond.
There are also opportunities to take shorter work placements, for example over the summer period, and to be involved in systems development projects for real industry clients.
A variety of assessment methods are used on the programme.
These can include in-class tests, individual and group coursework, and poster sessions.
A significant amount of the overall assessment is weighted towards coursework, emphasizing hands-on experience and problem solving.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/cmpcybub:
The demand for skilled cyber security professionals with a strong understanding of modern computing architectures is rapidly increasing.
The BSc Computer Science with Cyber Security programme recognises this demand and integrates key computer science and security concepts to enhance your future career prospects.
Learning from expert academics and industry professionals, you can gain hands-on experience with security technologies, threat modelling, and incident response strategies applicable to industry environments.
You can also enhance your expertise in network security, data protection, and access management.
This course aims to help you to develop the skills to tackle complex security challenges in modern computing environments, preparing you for a wide range of industry roles such as Security Engineer, Security Architect, Security Consultant, or other specialised cyber security roles within organisations with specific security requirements.
Content on the programme is divided into 12-week modules.
Your learning will primarily take place in lectures and supported hands-on workshops in our industry-standard facilities.
A key focus within the curriculum is on building resilient and secure systems in the face of modern threats.
This is delivered through topics such as secure application development practices.
You can also develop expertise in secure network design and incident investigation techniques.
You'll have the opportunity to complete a final-year project, where you can explore an area of security research, incident response, or vulnerability analysis which is of interest to you.
This is an excellent opportunity to apply your knowledge to a significant security challenge and demonstrate experience in identifying, analysing, and mitigating security threats.
The Cyber Threat Intelligence module provides a comprehensive exploration of the cyber threat landscape, equipping students with the knowledge and skills to understand, analyse, and mitigate modern cyber threats.
Covering key cyber security models like the Cyber Kill Chain and CIA Triad, the module delves into malware taxonomy, detection techniques, and obfuscation methods.
Students will learn to analyse network traffic using industry standard tools and how develop effective cyber threat intelligence strategies and defensive measures against evolving cyber attacks.
This module focuses on cybersecurity principles and practices essential for protecting information systems and data.
It covers a wide range of topics, including cryptography and encryption to organisational strategies for risk management, governance, and incident response.
The module delves into the technical aspects of software security and understanding adversarial behaviours, while also addressing the role of human factors, culture, and awareness in building a robust security posture.
On the course you can access industry-standard facilities and dedicated computing labs to support your studies and enable you to hone your skills.
Students on the course have the opportunity to gain cutting-edge industry certification in areas such as security, artificial intelligence, and cloud computing.
Examples of the certification exams and digital badges you can achieve as part of the programme include Microsoft Security Fundamentals and Microsoft Azure AI Fundamentals
A range of assessment methods are used across the programme, including in-class tests, individual and group coursework, and poster sessions.
These are designed to evaluate your understanding of theoretical computer science and security concepts as well as your practical application of skills.
Coursework assignments typically involve the development and deployment of computer science and security-based solutions, code implementations, and the creation of detailed technical documentation.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/conconub:
W160
Conservators play a key role in the protection and care of cultural heritage, preserving artworks, architecture, archaeology, and museum collections for future generations to enjoy.
The BA (Hons) Conservation of Cultural Heritage degree offers the chance to gain extensive, hands-on experience working on a range of genuine historic materials provided by museums, historic houses, and private collections.
You can work in high-specification, purpose-built laboratories in the University's Peter de Wint Building.
During your studies you'll have the opportunity to become familiar with different materials, time periods, and collections within their historical context.
Subject area ranked 3rd overall in the UK*
High-specification, purpose-built laboratories on campus
Opportunity to undertake a work placement
Links to Lincoln Conservation, a professional company on campus
Study in a city full of history
Lab coat, a tool kit, and goggles are provided
*Complete University Guide 2025 (out of 56 ranking institutions)
Conservation is a multidisciplinary course, drawing together skills in art, science and history, and applying these to cultural heritage.
This course aims to offer a balance between learning both the theory and practice of conservation.
This enables you to navigate decision-making and ethics through independent research and the guidance of tutors.
Throughout the course, you can carry out conservation treatments and scientific analysis of historical artefacts.
This starts with simple objects in the first year and becomes more complex as your skills and knowledge increase.
The course culminates in an exhibition of work at the end of the final year, celebrating the achievements of the graduating group with their family and friends, as well as potential employers.
The second term of year two offers the opportunity to study overseas at a partner institution, choose from a range of optional modules from across the Lincoln School of Humanities and Heritage, or undertake an extended work placement.
You have the opportunity to source your own placement in a historic property, museum, or private workshop in the UK, or overseas.
The course is taught through a combination of lectures and practicals.
After an initial introduction to conservation skills, materials and techniques, you will carry out practical work on historic objects from museums and private collections.
The course is taught through a combination of lectures and practical sessions, seminars, and workshops.
After an initial introduction to conservation skills, materials and techniques, you can carry out practical work on historic objects from museums and private collections.
You may have opportunities to undertake field trips as part of the course to expand your knowledge and see conservation in action.
Recent field trips have included the North Lincolnshire Museum and the Lincoln Museum.
Where field trips are mandatory within the modules, you will not need to pay to attend them.
This module aims to introduce students to generic practical skills used in the treatment of historic objects.
It provides a foundation to future work, although at the early stages the students work on exercises and simulations, prior to being allocated their first object.
Students can develop awareness of the practices and procedures common to areas of conservation treatment including laboratory and bench skills, documentation skills and basic decision-making skills.
The module supports students in planning and preparing for their professional life by providing a framework to successfully navigate their way through university study, including progression to postgraduate level, and from this springboard to their chosen professional destination.
It is intended to provide students with the knowledge, skills and insights into how to manage the transitions into university and from there into the professional world.
In this module students have the chance to learn the theory and application of basic conservation principles related to observation, documentation, condition assessment and cleaning of historic objects; adhesives, consolidants, modelling and casting.
This module is designed to introduce students to basic chemistry concepts, and the scientific study of materials commonly found in cultural heritage.
Students may develop a systematic approach to scientific investigation and examination of historic objects and an understanding to the nature of different materials, technological factors and the processes of deterioration.
This module aims to provide the underpinning basic theoretical knowledge related to historic materials, on which the discipline of conservation is based.
Students are introduced to a range of conservation techniques, through lectures discussing a range of different material types and their potential deterioration.
This module provides an introduction to the recording skills necessary for a practising conservator.
Various forms of documentation encountered in the practice of conservation are introduced, and drawing and photography recordings skills developed.
Students can be introduced to the basic principles of photography, lighting techniques and their application in conservation.
The conventions and standard representations used in record drawing are also introduced.
This module is designed as an introduction to visual and material culture, embracing the history of art and architecture, historical archaeology, and the conservation of historical buildings.
It aims to enable students to interrogate visual and material objects throughout the past and to understand their functions and possible meanings of visual and material objects as primary sources.
This module aims to develop the basic skills introduced in year one and apply them to the conservation of objects related to a range of material types.
Theoretical concepts introduced in Year 1 can be developed and underpin students’ practice.
The module offers the chance to develop important transferable skills for understanding of the behaviour of materials and manual dexterity.
It also looks to reinforce and develop students' skills in conservation report-writing.
This module aims to further develop knowledge of materials science and its relevance to conservation.
Students have the chance to develop skills in the use of scientific analytical techniques for the examination and identification of materials encountered in historic objects and their treatment.
This module looks to provide an introduction to the preventive conservation skills needed to set out as a practicing conservator.
Students have the chance to develop an understanding of practical preventive conservation and collections management procedures, and can gain experience in environmental monitoring and surveying.
Topics such as integrated pest management and emergency planning are also discussed.
This module provides students with the opportunity to resurrect and understand the ordinary lives of people like themselves and their forebears from the sources available to us.
The course picks up on both well-established and recent trends in historical research that have sought to give voice to ordinary people and promote from the historical records the lives of marginalised people such as homosexuals, women, children, the working classes, ethnic minorities alongside more familiar narratives of the great and the good.
This module introduces students to philosophical questions about the nature of art and beauty.
For example: What is art?
Can anything be a work of art?
Can a pile of elephant dung be art?
Is beauty objectively real or only ‘in the eye of the beholder’?
Can aesthetic judgements be right or wrong?
Is Beethoven better than Beyoncé?
Is Shakespeare better than Eastenders?
Or are aesthetic disputes like deciding between the merits of different flavours of ice cream?
Students can also consider questions that arise in relation to specific artforms: How is it possible to respond emotionally towards the plight of fictional characters that are known not to exist?
Do rock/pop music and classical music require different aesthetic criteria for their appreciation and evaluation?
Why do we take pleasure in the aesthetic representation of tragic events?
Students will be guided through their reading of various classical and contemporary works on such issues, and encouraged to think for themselves about the problems addressed.
This module gives students the opportunity to read one text (in translation) closely and discuss sections each week with a tutor.
It offers the opportunity to develop skills in textual analysis, including researching an author; assessing the intended audience; and considering the social/political context, the significance of genre and style, and other factors in how we interpret and understand a text.
Students also compare and critique research that has used the text and explore the possibilities it has to serve as primary evidence for the study of the ancient world.
This module focuses around a 12 week period of placement in a museum, historic house or private workshop.
Students are responsible for negotiating the placement arrangement with support and guidance from their placement tutor.
Students are encouraged to select a placement to suit their individual aspirations and needs.
This concludes with a presentation, which is designed to allow all group members to benefit from the experience of their peers.
This module focuses around a 12 week part time placement in a museum, historic house or private workshop.
This concludes with preparation of a portfolio, and a presentation, which is designed to allow all group members to benefit from the experience of their peers.
The module looks at a number of ways in which historians have studied the family in Britain between c.1500 and 1800.
It will examine a range of historical approaches from the demographic to the more qualitative and anthropological.
Close attention is paid to the problems historians of the pre-industrial family confront in their examination of the surviving primary sources.
The aim of this module is to give students a thorough understanding of two intimately related philosophical traditions that came to prominence in the 19th and 20th centuries: existentialism and phenomenology.
Each attempts to address the nature and meaning of human existence from the perspective of individual, first-person experience, focusing in particular on fundamental questions of being, meaning, death, nihilism, freedom, responsibility, value, human relations, and religious faith.
The module will examine selected existential themes through the writings of thinkers such as Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, Heidegger, Sartre, De Beauvoir, and Camus.
Since existentialism is as much a artistic phenomenon as a philosophical one, students will also be given the opportunity to explore existentialist ideas in the works of various literary figures, such as Shakespeare, Dostoyevsky, Kafka, and Milan Kundera.
The civil wars that raged across England, Wales, Scotland and Ireland in the mid-seventeenth century were among the most turbulent and exhilarating times in British history.
This module explores the diverse ways in which the wars were explained, experienced and remembered by those who lived through them.
Students can consider the extent to which this period, often described as one of 'revolution', left a lasting impression on British society, culture, religion and politics.
The modern period has often been understood as a time when peace was considered the natural state of societies, where states and non-governmental groups have been concerned with achieving a lasting peace and avoiding repetitions of bloody conflict.
Wars, however, have not become a thing of the past, and today we live in a condition of seemingly permanent war where civilians are often the primary targets.
This module will look at how ideas and practices of war have altered in the last few hundred years, and how these notions have been contested and challenged.
The module asks where these ideas came from, and how concepts of war and peace, and violence and non-violence have been reframed in various ways.
The course is focussed on the nineteenth and twentieth centuries and moves chronologically from the Napoleonic wars, to contemporary conflicts through a series of case studies that cover wars, diplomacy, the aftermath of wars, and peace movements.
Each case study will draw on key themes which run throughout the module, including pacifism, militarism, imperialism, culture, race, gender and nationalism.
This module will interrogate aspects of the history of gender and sexuality in Britain over a 250-year span, coinciding with the arrival of ‘modernity’.
It will introduce students to debates over the relationship between gender, sexuality, and structural changes in society, economy and politics, as well as thinking about gender and sexuality as discourse and subjectivity.
Further, it will introduce students to a wide range of source material for the social and cultural history of early modern and modern Britain and seek to develop their confidence in using such diverse sources skillfully.
The module takes a thematic approach, although within each theme, specific chronological examples will be examined.
Thus continuity and change can be highlighted, and it is intended to resist a narrative of progress towards ‘modern’ liberal views of gender and sexuality.
However, a clear chronological framework will also be developed through examples which will help students gain a clear understanding of context.
Italy is a highly-politicised and ideologically-divided country.
Divisions and internal conflicts, which have reached dramatic peaks, are a permanent feature in Italian history.
They mirror unsolved social and political contradictions that many historians consider to be the result of the process of the Italian Risorgimento.
National unification was prompted by republicans, but it was the Monarchy that achieved it.
Works of fiction are not just a source of entertainment.
They are a crucial and exciting route into understanding the past.
Novels, short stories and poems allow us to understand how debates and ideas about society and identity circulated and how writers attempted to reinforce or change the way that readers looked at the world.
This module will examine how a wide range of fiction produced in Britain in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries addressed the key themes of Class, Politics, Gender, Sexuality, Race and Conflict.
Students will have the opportunity to examine the treatment of these concepts in genres as varied as crime fiction, popular romance, children’s literature, science fiction, war writing and feminist fiction.
This module will give students a unique opportunity to develop their practical skills for studying objects while developing their understanding of the relationship between history and material culture.
Students can explore how object-based study can enhance their practice as conservators and historians and how material culture studies can lead to insights that cannot be reached through other approaches.
This module explores the history of media controversy and ‘moral panic’ during the twentieth century.
It is designed to introduce students to media texts (especially films and television programmes) that have sparked debate and extreme differences of opinion among audiences in Britain and America.
Students will be expected to engage with a range of films, television programmes and primary source material.
This module will examine art in Britain from 1933 onwards in relation to migration.
Beginning with the mass exile of artists, photographers, and designers from Nazi-occupied Europe in 1933, it will investigate how art and visual culture in Britain spanning the past ninety years has been shaped by migrants and refugees, and their descendants.
We will look at the generation of artists who came to Britain from Africa, Asia, and the Caribbean in the 1950s and 1960s; the British Black arts movement of the 1980s; identity politics and art institutions in the 1990s; second-generation Jewish artists and Holocaust memory, as well as new generations of younger artists exploring heritage today.
The module will examine how artists have dealt with experiences of migration and the associated experiences of displacement, dislocation, loss, and ‘otherness’, and in relation to constructions of class, gender and race.
As well as focusing on the reception and changing status of émigrés in Britain, it will consider iconographies of exile, and how notions of memory and heritage have been explored and represented.
The module will involve close engagement with a range of primary sources (oral histories, letters, exhibition catalogues and reviews) and theoretical writings (e.g.
Edward Said, Marianne Hirsch, Stuart Hall).
People have migrated as long as the human race has existed and this module places this fundamental aspect of human experience at its heart.
Issues surrounding migration and the movement of peoples are central to contemporary politics and society, as the management of people seeking refuge and better prospects preoccupies governments around the world.
This situation makes ever more urgent our need to understand the history of migration and how it has shaped cultures across time and space.
People on the move focuses upon the movement of people at particular points in modern history, considering the forces that propel people to risk their own lives and possibly those of their families, uproot from home and enter the potentially perilous and peripatetic life of a migrant.
We will discuss the prospects and challenges of migration, and subsequently how diasporic cultures develop and the benefits and tensions surrounding integration.
We will consider what happens when communities come into contact due to migration and the subsequent influences upon culture, religion, politics and identity.
Through a series of in-depth case studies from the modern period, from the forced movement of the colonial era to twentieth century migration across the Atlantic, we will encounter a variety of geographical regions and processes of migration.
A variety of historical sources will be interrogated to access the stories of migrants and about migrants, including texts (such legal and government documents, letters, memoirs and oral histories), images, objects and architecture.
Addressing themes such as empire, economics, identity and religion in different contexts allows us to make meaningful comparisons between migrations across time and space.
This module explores a range of philosophical questions relating to the nature of science.
How are scientific theories developed?
Are scientific theories discovered through a ‘flash of genius’ or is something more methodical involved?
How much of scientific discovery is down to careful observation?
Do scientific theories tell us how the world really is?
Do the entities scientific theories postulate – atoms, electromagnetic waves, and so on – really exist?
Or are scientific theories merely useful models of reality?
Is science independent of its social context?
To what extent is scientific inquiry affected by gender, race or politics?
Is there such a thing as truth that is not relative to a particular culture, social class or historical era?
Drawing on accessible examples from a variety of scientific fields and by answering these and related questions, we shall try to reach an understanding of how science works.
East Africa became a significant theatre of empire from the mid-nineteenth century, when David Livingstone championed European intervention to bring ‘Christianity, commerce and civilisation’ to the region.
This module will explore the expansion of the British Empire into East Africa from the late nineteenth-century era of ‘high imperialism’ until decolonisation in the 1960s.
This region provides rich opportunities to deepen an understanding of imperialism and offers key themes in the history of empire, including exploration, slavery, race, identity, gender, imperial networks, cultural representation and indigenous agency.
This module provides an opportunity for Conservation students to spend a term studying at one of the University’s partner institutions.
Study at another institution offers enhanced sporting, cultural and other activities to enhance students' overall profile, alongside the basic experience of adapting to and working effectively within a different academic culture.
Please note that a limited number of places will be available each year.
This module allows students the opportunity to specialise in a specific material discipline, or alternatively to continue to pursue broader options.
Students are encouraged to consider their choice of specialism for this module in line with their choice of dissertation and placement.
This is a practical module covering the conservation treatment of one or more complex historic objects.
Exact content will depend on object type chosen.
This module allows students to choose to specialise in a specific material discipline, or alternatively to continue to pursue broader options.
The module is designed to extend students' knowledge and awareness of preventive conservation skills.
Students can carry out live projects in environmental monitoring, surveying collections and pest management in order to further their experience in these areas, in addition to examining how external factors such as buildings and pollutants can impact on collections care.
This module covers the production of an exhibition of conservation work completed by students.
Initial sessions discuss the theory of exhibition design and managing projects, before moving on to the detail of the exhibition itself.
Students will be expected to manage all aspects of the exhibition, including curation, marketing and fundraising if applicable.
The module allows students to undertake a major research project in an area of their own choice (approx.
10,000 words).
The student is allocated a dissertation tutor following their decision on the topic to be researched.
The initial stage of planning involves the student confirming a working title and agreeing the structure to their work.
Regular tutorials with the dissertation tutor will aid the students’ progress and time management.
The research should address clear aims or hypotheses and may involve literature review and / or primary research through fieldwork or experimentation.
The choice of dissertation topic may be related to the students’ choice of placement and practical specialism.
This course is assessed by coursework in all three years.
Examples of assessment methods that may be used include practical work, presentations, blogs written assignments, reports, or dissertations.
We follow a principle of authentic assessments, so that the types of assessments we use will, where possible, help people prepare for a career in heritage.
Examples include communicating conservation to the public through a video or poster, and producing conservation reports about the objects treated within the practical modules.
Examples of assessment methods that may be used include practical work, presentations, blogs, written assignments, reports, or dissertations.
Examples include communicating conservation to the public through a video, blog, or poster, and producing conservation reports about the objects treated within the practical modules.
In the third year, students can work with a local museum to deliver training to their volunteers, gaining real experience of working with other heritage organisations.
Gain hands-on experience in our high-specification laboratories working on a range of historic materials provided by museums, historic houses, and private collections.
The second year features an optional 12 week placement, which can be taken full time, or part time alongside optional modules.
Students have the opportunity to source their own work placement in a museum, historic house, or a private conservation studio either in the UK or overseas.
Tutors can provide support in obtaining placements when required.
Recent placement destinations have included the Tate Modern in London, Manx Museum, Isle of Man, and The Leather Conservation Centre in Northampton.
Our teaching team cover a range of different conservation specialisms, meaning that students have the opportunity to explore conservation of a broad range of different material types.
While some students do choose to specialise during their third year or after progression to Master's level, others prefer to work with variety of materials throughout.
Our classes of around 20 students per year means that we are able to understand students’ individual interests.
We aim to help and encourage each student to develop their preferences and explore their strengths in an individualised way both within modules (where appropriate) and through additional activities.
Lincoln is bursting with history, making the city a wonderful place to study conservation.
The city is full of old buildings, such as the cathedral, which would inspire any trainee conservator.
Every staff member on the Conservation team has a vast array of skills, knowledge, and experience.
Graduates of this course can progress into a range of careers in the conservation and heritage industries.
Links with employers around the world have opened up opportunities for our graduates in prominent institutions, such as Historic Royal Palaces, the V&A Museum, and the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.
Graduates can choose to go on to undertake further study at Master’s or doctoral level.
Successful applicants will be invited for interview, where they have the opportunity to go through their portfolio with a member of the academic team.
Those applicants coming from art, design, craft, or technology backgrounds should bring a portfolio of selected previous work.
In making the choice of what to include, please bear in mind the skills that we are looking for include precision, dexterity, and attention to detail.
Students who do not have artistic evidence to present in a portfolio are very welcome to apply.
Students are selected for interview on the strength of their application, but may also have a hobby, such as needlework, DIY or model-making, that demonstrates potential practical skills.
Students can bring evidence of these instead if appropriate.
Other suitable skills evidence can include communication skills, IT and computing skills, and presentation skills.
There may be optional study trips, which would need to be funded by the student.
Students are required to cover the costs of their accommodation, travel, and general living expenses when on placement or study abroad.
Opportunities for travel grants are available, more information can be provided by the programme leader.
Please contact the University to find out more.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/aadaadub:
W213
Advertising is a career built on the power of your imagination and your ability to make people listen to, and care about, what you have to say.
On this course you'll learn how to develop original ideas and bring them to life in the most compelling way while using your creativity and communication skills to change the way people think.
We'll explore conceptual thinking, copywriting, art direction, and the different types of media a professional advertising creative will need to know, as well as helping you present your ideas effectively and persuasively.
The course has close relationships with advertising agencies and brands around the world, so you'll also get to practise your skills with briefs from real clients.
This programme is also available with an Arts Foundation Year, which can provide an alternative route of entry on to the full degree programme.
Learn from staff who are experienced advertising industry creatives
Opportunities to work on live briefs and projects set by industry
Take part in study visits to London and an optional trip to New York
Graduates working in advertising agencies around the world
*Complete University Guide 2025 (out of 87 ranking institutions).
Throughout a career-focused curriculum, students can develop the professional skills and knowledge and the digital literacy and teamworking abilities to produce original ideas through high-level creative thinking.
Students can embrace the various creative advertising roles required throughout a wide range of advertising projects, working in collaborative teams.
Tutor-led, student-led, and independent learning sessions are at the core of our teaching approach.
The learning experience encourages students to push their creative thinking so that they embrace learning through failed ideas and concepts, as this is the path to innovative and original project solutions.
This is alongside students learning to respond to advertising briefs which require a sound grasp of commercial communications, and the ability to identify and reach defined audiences.
Through extensive practice in the studio, students can develop their strategic, conceptual, copywriting, planning, pitching, and creative problem-solving skills.
In the final year, students are able to refine their portfolio of work and be part of a showcase of advertising campaigns across different communication channels.
The programme utilises a dynamic mix of delivery methods to make for an enriched and engaged student experience.
Up-to-date digital blended teaching methods are used to support an education that reflects the current landscape.
This module focuses on fostering curiosity and enquiry based learning.
It provides students with opportunities to question and interrogate a variety of themes.
This module aims to encourage students to think critically and solve problems laterally and move away from prescribed and predictable outcomes.
Audience and human observations are central to this module, students are therefore encouraged to move beyond the studio setting to engage with real world problems directly at source.
This module is designed to introduce students to relevant concepts, debates, and case studies relating to the nature creativity and the creative process, as the basis for the development of a reflective creative practice.
This aims to compliment and underpin the studio work students carry out with the programme-specific team during the rest of their programme of study.
This module focuses on creative disciplines, introducing students to the foundations of visual communication, art direction, and copy writing.
Students will be encouraged to play and experiment with a variety of media, to foster a stronger sense of visual awareness and consideration for craft.
Through storytelling, character development and typography, students will be encouraged to explore and experiment to produce visually compelling work which is both considered and unexpected.
Whilst building on the prerequisite skills needed for the creative industries, students will be encouraged to challenge existing practices whilst looking outward towards emerging trends.
This module focuses on the developing students' unique, creative voices.
It provides opportunities to discover new ways of working and reinvent some tried and tested methods.
Utilising our industry links, we have tailored this module to create mavericks, creative rebels, in short those who will stand apart from the crowd when looking for employment.
This module aims to encourage students to take risks, embrace failure, and ultimately find fresh, novel approaches to problem-solving.
As this module is largely focused on discovering the individuality of the students, teaching will be delivered in a range of ways to accommodate differences in learning styles, from large group discussions, to personal tutorials.
Building upon issues concerning the development of a reflective creative practice, Contextual Studies 2 introduces students to relevant concepts, debates, and case study examples concerning the professional, economic, and socio-cultural contexts of design within the creative industries.
It will also discuss ethical issues as they relate to this professional context of the creative industries and shape the creative motivations of areas such as design activism, ecological orientations, and socially engaged creative practices.
These themes and debates will form an overarching discussion of professional design practice.
The module aims to develop a deep and fundamental understanding of advertising practice through the scrutiny of  ‘strategy – concept – execution’ as an important creative process.
Students can explore different practical techniques for idea generation, copywriting, and strategies to solve a wide range of advertising problems.
The module is underpinned by teamwork.
Psychology and communication theories inform the practical projects and explore a wide variety of current advertising media.
This module links to industry with a focus on employability.
The advertising industry is examined and contextualised through studio-based activities.
Central to this module is the opportunity for the student to elect a self-initiated work placement, or alternatively a live brief from either an agency or end client.
Students may gain real life experience and the opportunity to engage with industry in a contextualised manner as they start to prepare for their career.
The "Interdisciplinary Collaboration" module offers an exciting and dynamic learning experience for students in graphic design, creative advertising, illustration, and product design.
Each year, the module's projects are tailored to reflect the latest trends and needs in the design industry, ensuring that students gain relevant and cutting-edge skills.
With a focus on user experience design, AI in design, influencing and content creation, virtual reality, and design for social change, students will work on projects that challenge their creativity and technical abilities.
This module is ideal for those looking to stay ahead in the fast-paced world of design and make a meaningful impact through their work.
Additionally, it provides an opportunity for students to shape their own degree, offering pathways for further elective specialisms in Level 3.
Students will also have the chance to learn and utilise new industry tools and technologies, and work in new groups outside of their existing course, fostering interdisciplinary collaboration that reflects the current design industry.
The module explores in more depth the skills and experience of visual communication, copywriting, and creative advertising developed in the first year of the programme.
Central to the module is the process of making informed decisions that result in visually appropriate creative solutions to advertising problems.
Students can explore different methodologies, practical techniques for realising and executing creative ideas, and creative concepts and strategies.
This module aims to develop the visual craft skills and experience associated with creative advertising.
Through the exploration of the visual and copywriting craft of their ideas students can engage with respected national and international competitions as a means of understanding and gaining insight and knowledge of qualities appropriate to the industry.
Presentation skills may be developed to create high standards of verbal presentation and visual communication of the work.
Contextual Studies 3 is an independent research study module which takes the form either of a dissertation and/or a number of other options.
The module offers students an opportunity to explore in depth a topic of their own choice, chosen generally, but not exclusively in relation to the practice and/or context of their programme-specific studies and studio practice.
This studio-based module covers the exploration and production of engaging advertising campaigns that creatively exploit a wide range of different media and demonstrate the factors that impact upon effective communication such as insight and human truth.
Innovation, initiative, teamwork, and creative independence are core components enabling students the chance to develop a higher level of autonomy.
Students are expected to produce a final portfolio of highly effective and creative work that explores important themes and demonstrates an advanced understanding of strategy origination, concept creation, and effective execution.
At the core of this module is the production of a portfolio of work in preparation of entry to the advertising industry.
This studio-based module enables the students to explore opportunities and requirements of the advertising and wider creative communication industries.
An appreciation of professional practice standards and expectations may be developed through contact with current practitioners within advertising and related communication disciplines.
Students can develop a high standard of visual and verbal presentation skills to demonstrate creative ability and comprehension of the discipline.
This theory-based module introduces you to key concepts, debates, and case studies surrounding creativity and the creative process, forming a foundation for a reflective and informed creative practice.
By engaging with these ideas, you can gain insights that enhance and support your hands-on studio work across your program.
This module aims to deepen understanding, encouraging you to think critically about creativity while connecting theory to practice in meaningful, impactful ways.
Building on the foundations of reflective creative practice in Level 1, Contextual Studies 2 immerses you in key concepts, debates, and case studies related to the professional, economic, and socio-cultural dynamics of the creative industries.
This module delves into the ethical dimensions of professional design, examining how issues like design activism, ecological awareness, and socially engaged practices influence creative motivations and shape the field.
These thought-provoking themes set the stage for an in-depth discussion on the role of ethics and purpose in contemporary design.
By exploring these topics, you can gain a nuanced understanding of how design intersects with real-world issues, enhancing your awareness of professional practice within the broader landscape of the creative industries.
Examples of assessment methods that may be used include coursework, such as written assignments, reports or dissertations, or review of creative output.
Students can take part in visits to London advertising agencies, as well as an optional visit to New York, giving them the opportunity to build contacts and industry knowledge prior to graduating.
Please note, optional study visits are at the student's own expense.
These optional trips are not graded.
Our degree show is an exciting opportunity for our Lincoln School of Design students to showcase their work both physically and digitally to the public and businesses.
Lincoln School of Design students have a long history of winning and being shortlisted for international and national student design competitions, and the last few years have been no exception.
The University of Lincoln has a comprehensive range of facilities designed to provide a supportive environment for creative practitioners.
Students have regular access to workshops, labs, studios, and industry-standard equipment, as well as highly knowledgeable technicians.
This environment can help students to develop their knowledge and skills, and complements our purpose-built design studios.
You'll work in our purpose built studios in the Peter De Wint building.
Third-year students can complete a project designed specifically to build their profile and get them noticed by significant figures in the creative industries.
The end of year show, which has previously been held at one of London’s most famous advertising agencies, enables students to showcase their portfolios and meet decision makers from top agencies across the country – providing a platform to begin their search for a role after graduation.
After generating a great deal of positive interest from the industry through their now-famous 'black cab book crit' idea, graduates Shannon Cripps and Beth Wood now work for the in-house creative team at Channel 4 – picking up prestigious Cream and D&AD New Blood awards along the way.
The Creative Advertising Society holds industry talks and workshops in our Lincoln studio with high-profile guest speakers from advertising.
Previous speakers have included Rory Sutherland, Vikki Ross, and Sir John Hegarty.
It is encouraging to see students overflowing with ideas that are both insightful, fresh and challenging.
I have set the brief I gave to the Lincoln second years to a number of other courses, yet the work produced by the Lincoln students was head and shoulders above the rest.
Simon Lloyd
Global Creative Director, adam&eveDDB
Some of our most recent Creative Advertising graduates have gone on to work in top creative companies around the world such as Spotify, Grey, adam&eveDDB, Droga5, Fallon, WCRS, Achtung!, Leo Burnett, and Ogilvy.
Many take on roles in communications and marketing, or set up their own businesses, while others go on to study further at Master's or doctoral level.
Graduate roles have included Art Director, Content Creator, Strategist, Creative Producer, Junior Campaign Manager, Social Media Advertising Executive, Copywriter, Insights and Audience Planner, and Illustration Agent at destinations including Above+Beyond, AnalogFolk, Bare Conductive, Channel 4, Distract, Havas Helia, Havas LYNX, HTK, ITV, Karmarama, Lemonade Illustration Agency, McCann Worldgroup, Ogilvy, Saatchi & Saatchi, St.
Luke's, Teads, The Drum, The Gate London, VCCP, VMLY&R, WCRS, Wieden+Kennedy, and Wunderman Thompson.
Jess' Creative Advertising Story
Hear from Jess what it's like to study Creative Advertising at the University of Lincoln!
He talks about his experiences, the facilities on offer, and much much more.
Standard workshop induction costs are covered by the University, as are some initial printing and material costs.
However, depending on the media/materials chosen by the student, there may be additional costs incurred.
The Creative Advertising programme aims to run trips to London advertising agencies once during the second year of study and once or twice during the third year.
These trips are optional and will not impact upon student grades.
Travel costs for these trips are the responsibility of the student.
These can vary, however students are all given ample notice.
The programme also aims to run a trip to New York advertising agencies once during the second year of study.
This is optional and does not have an impact on any grades on the course.
The cost of the New York trip is approximately £850 (based on recent figures).
The School aims to subsidise third-year showcase work.
However, students can expect to collectively raise additional funds between themselves towards a 'private view' entertainments budget, should they choose to do so.
A figure of £200 is approximate and depends on the size of the year group and the number attending.
Other additional costs can include notebooks, A3 layout pads (approx.
£5-£10 each), and marker/fineliner pens (approx.
£1-£3 each).

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/crwcrwub:
W801
Live the Writing Life at the University of Lincoln.
If you love to read and write and want to explore the boundaries of your own creativity, Creative Writing at Lincoln can provide you with a new appreciation of literature.
Students can develop their own distinctive voice as an author and philosophy of composition, as well as explore the theory and practice of building a diverse portfolio of work across forms and styles.
As a Creative Writing student at the University of Lincoln, you have the opportunity to work with, and become part of, an international community of writers who will aim to help you develop your skills in genres as diverse as prose fiction, psychological thrillers, scriptwriting, poetry, creative non-fiction, audio dramas, young adult fiction, multi-modal writing and the graphic novel.
Our aim is to help you to develop your writing in innovative and exciting ways, becoming the best writer you can be.
The course has a strong focus on employability and aims to prepare you for a professional writing or publishing career.
Our teaching team consist of highly experienced and enthusiastic professional writers whose work has been internationally published, broadcast, and staged.
They include science fiction writer Chris Dows, poet and literary translator Daniele Pantano, novelists Guy Mankowski and Robert Weston, and Amy Lilwall; playwright Sue Healy; and multi-modal author Sherezade Rangel, most of whom are award-winning in their own genres and writing formats.
You may also have opportunities to take part in readings, workshops, masterclasses, and events; to serve as editors for 'The Lincoln Review' (www.lincolnreview.org), an international literary journal edited exclusively by undergraduate and postgraduate students; and to benefit from the experience of a range of writers, editors, dramaturges, producers, and directors who come to the University of Lincoln as visiting lecturers, such as Ann Cleeves, Andrew Graham-Dixon, Chris Packham, and the former Poet Laureate Carol Ann Duffy, who became a Visiting Artist at the University in 2015 and regularly visits Lincoln to engage with students and read a selection of her works.
If you love to read and write and want to explore the boundaries of your own creativity, Creative Writing at Lincoln can provide you with a new appreciation of the writer's craft.
As a Creative Writing student at the University of Lincoln, you have the opportunity to work with, and become part of, an international community of writers who will aim to help you develop your skills in genres as diverse as prose fiction, historical fiction, contemporary fiction, speculative fiction , scriptwriting, poetry, creative non-fiction, audio dramas, young adult fiction, multi-modal writing, and the graphic novel.
You may also have opportunities to take part in readings, workshops, masterclasses, and events; to serve as editors for 'The Lincoln Review' (www.lincolnreview.org), an international literary journal edited exclusively by undergraduate and postgraduate students; and to benefit from the experience of a range of writers, editors, dramaturges, producers, and directors who come to the University of Lincoln as visiting lecturers, such as Ann Cleeves, Andrew Graham-Dixon, Chris Packham, and Visiting Professor Robert Shearman.
Subject ranked 2nd overall in the UK*
Staff include active professional authors in a variety of genres
Option to study abroad at a partner university
Active research community of staff and students
Hear from guest speakers including published authors
Build your portfolio of creative writing pieces
*Guardian University Guide 2025 (out of 27 ranking institutions).
The BA (Hons) Creative Writing programme concentrates on the practice and theory of developing a portfolio of work across a diverse array of forms and styles.
As well as discovering your own voice, you will have the opportunity to explore a range of techniques and practices which come from a wide range of historical and contemporary literature, both popular and classic, across poetry, prose, and scriptwriting.
Teaching and learning is centred on the writer's workshop, where there is a strong emphasis on participation.
You will have the opportunity to learn the habits of a professional writer, including keeping a writer's journal, research and observation, redrafting and editing and presenting work to a high standard.
The drafting process of creative texts and development of critical analyses will require a significant self-study commitment for the work to fulfil its potential.
This is particularly true of the third-year Final Major Project, the most significant creative text a student will produce and worth a quarter of the entire degree classification.
Throughout the three years, you can build up your portfolio and discover the commercial and social contexts of publishing in the 21st Century.
Delivery is predominately via seminars where tutor feedback and peer review is actively encouraged.
Second and third year modules feature lecture programmes on which workshops aimed at practising the creative, technical, and academic topics explored in the lectures are based.
While some modules include presentations, there are no examinations on this course at any level.
This is particularly true of the third-year Final Major Project, the most significant creative text a student will produce.
In this module, students will explore creative arts disciplines through the lens of cultural themes, ideas and principles.
This will encompass Creative Writing, Dance, Drama, Fine Art, Music, Musical Theatre and Technical Theatre and highlight the commonalties which connect these disciplines, as well as the nuances and differences that make them distinct.
This module is an introduction to scriptwriting and is designed to aid students in their initial exploration of scripts.
With an initial focus on writing for the stage and live performances, students may discover ways to generate ideas and turn them into stories, how to write dialogue to aid character development and how visual narrative storytelling works.
The course also provides a broader insight into the script industries and how to pitch projects.
This module aims to introduce students to a wide range of writing formats offered at the University of Lincoln.
Students will be encouraged to try different forms to establish good writing habits, with an emphasis on routine and discipline, and by providing clearly structured creative writing exercises that draw on their reading (textual interventions).
The module will establish points of contact between creative and critical writing, and encourage students to develop their ideas while understanding their creative process.
This module introduces students to the core skills and ideas involved in writing stories along with the fundamentals of good research.
The module examines the nature of story and narrative, how to create a character, and it introduces the idea of the character in action as a fundamental ingredient in building a dramatic story.
Focussing on how to blend fact and fiction, the student will be expected to create a historically accurate sequence that utilises all of the previously considered concepts and in-class writing exercises.
This module is an introduction to poetry writing and allows students to develop as writers and readers of poetry.
Students can read a variety of texts and study various poetic forms and techniques by a range of contemporary poets.
The close reading and the innovative application of language will enable students to develop their own skills in these areas and help them to craft their own poetry, paying close attention to the mechanics of poetic writing.
Emphasis is placed upon journal writing and workshop practice.
This module gives students the freedom to work within whatever genres and written formats they choose and put together a portfolio of their own work.
This might take the form of one long piece or of several shorter pieces.
The notion of ‘work in progress’ that is developed through to completion will be the basis of this module.
Students have the chance to employ the skills gained in previous modules to undertake a more challenging and larger piece of creative work through a series of workshop-based classes that include detailed peer and tutor reviews of students’ work-in-progress.
Prose is fundamental to understanding narrative whether in fiction or non-fiction.
This module aims to give students an understanding of how stories work, using the insights that have originated and developed from narrative theory and prose techniques.
Contemporary writers in both the short story and non-feature writing will be used to introduce a set of critical concepts for the analysis of all forms of prose writing.
The module provides students with opportunities to develop their practice in response to critical spatial practices.
This includes: writing a proposal that responds to a Live Brief theme; creating an artwork for a public exhibition/event; writing a contextual statement; utilising appropriate documentation techniques of creative practice; and disseminating responses to the contexts of spatial practice.
This Module asks students to create a proposal and a new artwork for a curated exhibition/event in the University’s Gallery, Project Space Plus.
Students will learn about curatorial issues through lectures and workshops, which will then be put into practice through the curation of an exhibition/event that will include all students on the module.
Artworks are specified here as being considered in the widest sense to include creative media including but not restricted to: dance, digital, drawing, installation, music, painting, performance, print, sculpture, sound, text, video, virtual reality).
Students are introduced to established and alternative models for spaces where creative arts take place.
Students are encouraged to create work that imagines alternatives to the fixed, institutional space of an exhibition and how artwork can effectively engage a public audience through its situation.
Screen Performance gives students the opportunity to explore multi-disciplinary approaches to acting, choreography, music, and technical skills for screen.
This module focuses on the creation of a screen work that provides students with the opportunity to develop skills in acting, directing, dance for screen, composing, technical production and scriptwriting.
Students will have the opportunity to create storyboards as part of the planning process, shoot and edit a short film, as well as document this process in a production folder.
Students will work in production teams to achieve a final video.
This module establishes and focuses on the need for students to develop as solo performers and professionals.
Students will explore the possibilities within performance workshops.
Regular reflection of performance practice, and programme design for a specific audience/event will encourage students to draw on a wide range of genres, eras and industry expectations.
This module gives you the chance to collaborate as a company to rehearse and stage a book musical.
Through this experience, you will gain valuable insight into the development and rehearsal process involved in a professional show.
This module is a practical exploration of the many technologies available for use in technical theatre and the contexts in which they are used.
From lighting consoles to sound mixers and QLAB software.
This module will teach the fundamentals of setting up and programming equipment for stage productions.
In this module students explore a range of approaches to the constantly evolving field of Physical Theatre.
Through a series of workshops, they investigate different techniques, styles, and methodologies ranging from classical traditions to contemporary performance, and are offered the opportunity to gain a practical and analytical insight into the countless possibilities of the body in performance - in relation to other bodies, to the space, to the audience.
Students will work to develop skills that will equip them to use the body expressively, imaginatively, communicatively, and collaboratively.
They will engage with and draw inspiration from  a variety of stimuli - words,  images, sounds, scents, objects, culture and society - in order to devise original performances, using the body as the primary vehicle to generate, express and communicate meaning.
In this module students will practically interrogate interdisciplinary arts practices and investigate creative arts practitioners that utilise ‘site’ in innovative ways.
In multidisciplinary groups they will conduct their own experiments to explore the challenges and possibilities of working in unconventional spaces.
This will culminate in a final presentation of their work.
This module is your opportunity to explore a specialist area at the forefront of industry developments.
This is a chance to gain both practical skills and theoretical knowledge from teaching staff with research and practice expertise.
In this module students are given the conceptual terms required for an understanding of how narrative works, and how narrative constructs our idea of ourselves and our social relationships as well as informs our ability to create stories.
In lectures and workshops, students will be studying the analysis, practice and enjoyment of narrative and will be asked to consider a wide range of texts across a range of forms and genres, literary and popular, visual as well as verbal, as examples of story telling.
This is a practical module which explores the techniques of singing and acting a song.
You will work on vocal technique, character development, and acting approaches to prepare solo numbers for performance.
The module will equip you with the skills to begin to put together a rep portfolio appropriate for your voice.
This will be invaluable if you are planning to apply for postgraduate study at drama school or begin auditioning for shows.
Assessment will be part practical, and part based on a portfolio detailing your exploration of acting and vocal techniques through the module.
Arts and Health, an optional 30 credit module in Semester B, is a live brief project that offers students the opportunity to work in a professional public setting to facilitate artwork with participants.
This may be a community, charity, educational, public or private sector setting in Lincoln or elsewhere.
You will be given the opportunity in this module to facilitate artwork with service users, communities or clients in organisations such as We Are With You / Double Impact / NHS / YMCA / HMS or another charity or community setting.
We have successfully worked with We Are With You / Double Impact Lincoln for the past 7 years, a national drug and alcohol charity offering support to people to enable them to make positive behavioural change.
Their work encompasses community support, education, help for those in the criminal justice system, mental health services, family and employment support.
In recent years we have also started to grow our community settings to provide students with further professional facilitation experiences such as working with adults with lived experience within the NHS and local communities at Doddington Hall, that draw upon community arts, participatory arts, arts psychotherapeutic methods and occupational health approaches.
Students considering a career in arts-led intervention or community arts practices, will gain invaluable experience of planning, training for, delivering and evaluating a participatory art process within a community setting.
This module will cover the latest technologies used in theatre and live events, from contemporary lighting and innovative live sound technology to holographic performance and virtual reality.
The module will explore how this technology is used and will encourage students to consider how contemporary technology can be used or developed to create a performance.
The module will research and analyse case studies from innovative contemporary productions and manufacturers from around the world.
This module aims to enable students to understand the landscape for potential employment post-University.
The module runs alongside the Placement module and will have the scope to feature guest talks from industry professionals.
Creative Audio Technologies encourages students to embrace and create using technology to facilitate an audio-based project, by exploring some of the creative tool available at the cutting edge of digital work.
Students will be introduced to a spectrum of technological tools designed to enhance and record audio, before creating their own project incorporating these techniques.
Existing original audio-based work – along with alternative uses of technologies – will be critically analysed in ways that embraces multiple genres, art forms and approaches to technology.
This module focuses on the interdisciplinary field of digital performance.
“We define the term 'digital performance' broadly to include all performance works where computer technologies play a key role rather than a subsidiary one in content, techniques, aesthetics or delivery forms” (Dixon, 2007, p3).
It examines the intersection of digital media and performance in various contexts, such as interactive media on stage, biosensors and the body in performance, and social media and performance opportunities.
By working with various digital technologies students can engage and explore practically how to make performance using these tools and new technologies.
This module is part of the University's commitment to academic programmes that encourage a high level of vocational relevance.
This module encourages students to think beyond their University life, reaching into the wider community to hone their skills and target future employment possibilities.
The module aims to enable students to examine how arts-based organisations, educational and non-traditional arts-based establishments function and provide students with valuable workplace experience.
Study Abroad is an optional module which enables students to spend a semester studying abroad at one of the University’s approved partner institutions.
Eligible students must have completed their first year of study to a satisfactory standard and successfully completed the application process for the study abroad scheme.
During the semester spent abroad, students share classes with local students and study on a suite of locally-delivered taught modules which have been approved in advance by the University.
This module considers the current moment in musical theatre, and anticipates new innovations.
It will focus particularly on musical theatre in the British and digital contexts, identifying new dynamics, new emergences, and new opportunities for and within the musical theatre industry.
This practical module teaches the fundamental techniques of armed and unarmed theatrical combat.
Students undergo stage fight training designed to enable them to act out physical conflict in a safe and technically proficient way, while maintaining characterisation and creating a convincing illusion of reality.
Throughout the semester, students work in pairs under the combat coach’s supervision.
At the end of the module, they engage in an assessment by performing a fight scene that they have selected and rehearsed.
The exam gives students the option of obtaining a stage combat certificate issued by The Academy of Performance Combat.
Throughout this module, students can develop and deepen their knowledge and practice of teaching and delivery in their chosen discipline.
Students are able to practice, analyse, and discuss various possible strategies for working in a variety of environments, including more challenging environments, such as integrated settings and with hard-to-reach groups.
In addition to the practical exploration of teaching and delivery, students can investigate the key policies and legislation surrounding the teaching profession.
This module has a strong industry-facing element, and can provide key knowledge and tools for students wanting to move toward teaching and delivery as part of their career.
While students are introduced to prose fiction writing and essential narrative techniques at level 1, the field of prose writing is much wider than short stories or novels.
In areas such as travel, historiography, literary journalism and biography, writers frequently employ similar techniques to those used by novelists to make events and characters more vivid.
This module will encourage students to use their creative and technical skills to write non-fiction, including but not limited travel writing, life writing, articles, reviews and journals.
Particular attention will be paid to balancing the need to convey factual information with the creative potential of narrative, language and form.
This module will allow students to research a field they wish to investigate such as current events, the arts, history or some aspect of science.
Students will learn both how to conduct research (through archival research, observations, and interviews) as well as the fundamental techniques of telling a true story.
Extended over two semesters, it will enable students to engage more deeply with a chosen field of non-fiction, for example to produce chapters that would contribute to a book as well as features.
This module will explore the role of fiction writing with an initial emphasis on the short story.
Many writers begin with the short story.
Through writing short stories they are able to experiment, learn the fundamentals of narrative composition, and have the satisfaction of completing something to a high standard in a relatively short period of time.
This module will introduce students to the work of a range of fiction writers, whilst helping them to develop their skills in crafting prose.
They will be asked to study particular stories each week, but also expected to pursue their own interests in reading.
The skills required for writing short stories are also key to working in other forms, so this module will help students to develop as writers, whatever their plans and ambitions may be.
The poetry workshop operates as a series of sessions in which students experiment with a variety of poetic forms with the aim of compiling a collection of their own verse.
Students will engage with a number of different poets each week as a stimulus to their own poetic engagement, and will compose and perform their own work as part of a practice of critique.
This module develops students' knowledge of the craft of scriptwriting for a wide range of formats, including but not limited to audio drama, graphic novel and moving image (short film).
Students will study, watch and listen to a number of texts appropriate to the format they wish to practice and develop their understanding of the relationship between character, script and production.
Attention will be given to the nuts and bolts of scriptwriting - dialogue, pace, setting, and story.
These are key to all forms of creative writing and literary analysis, as well as to creating successful script-based texts.
This module will provide students with an opportunity to develop their independent practice and explore a project of their own creation.
This will allow students to extend their knowledge of practice, scholarship, and praxis as they curate their own project, identifying a topic of interest for further exploration and dissemination.
The Final Major Project in creative writing provides all L3 CW  students with the opportunity to write an extensive piece of creative work of 8,000 words (or equivalent poems/scripted text) and an accompanying 2,000 word analysis of influence, audience,  genre and narrative devices over a period of two semesters.
The choice of form, style and genre is up to the student, with an appropriate supervisor assigned to them for the duration of the module.
Creative , technical and academic skills developed at Level 2 are further enhanced through this creative dissertation; these include the structuring of an extended piece from an initial idea, the drafting process, editing, and mastery of the particular genre in which they have chosen to work.
This close engagement with textual production as a practical exercise not only helps students develop an effective writing style but, by placing them in the position of the author, also deepens their understanding of the author-text-audience relationship within critical, creative and commercial contexts.
In this module students will be given the opportunity to specialise in editing and publishing in literary journals to showcase their creative work.
Working in small groups and independently students are expected to build on the experience they have gained at Levels 1 and 2 in a range of forms and genres.
Using available calls to submission and publication opportunities, students will work on producing work for public consumption in a professional environment.
They will take a practical approach to learning aspects of how to get published.
An advanced level of editorial and writing skills will be expected.
Artist in Residence gives students the opportunity to learn skills required of working in a variety of professional working environments as a professional creative artist.
Students will work in roles appropriate to their professional interests, including as performers, conductors, arrangers, composers and workshop facilitators, writers, designers, dancers in groups that are staff-led or external (connected) groups.
By being ‘in residence’ with one of more of these groups, students will have the opportunity to guide and lead the groups across a year of programming.
Acknowledging what happens in process and production are is as important, if not more important, than what happens with a final artistic product.
This module offers you invaluable opportunities to develop a detailed understanding of the arts as an ecosystem in relation to the wider world.
You'll be introduced to the organisational infrastructure of the creative sector, enhancing your core employability skills for life after graduation, and equipping you for a career in the arts.
You will learn directly from industry professionals working in a variety of creative contexts who we invite to speak to you in a series of talks and presentations; you can speak to them, ask questions, and develop your professional network.
You will also learn though lectures, discussion, group and individual working, and via research tasks designed to provide you with real-world guidance for working in creative and cultural industries.
You'll also be encouraged to keep abreast of government policy and issues such as audience accessibility and diversity within the arts, and ask how the current political climate shapes this generation of arts organisations, makers, producers and companies.
The module will examine the current dance landscape in which students will explore key questions such as: What dance is being made?
How is it being made?
Who is it being made for?
Students will analyse this information in order to identify gaps and trends within the current market to gain further understanding of what skills and knowledge may be required in order to successfully work within the dance industry.
Step up your expertise with this module, designed to empower you as a confident and collaborative practitioner.
Take charge of your creativity by realising a creative project.
This hands-on experience sharpens your entrepreneurial skills, fostering growth and innovation every step of the way
This module will enable you to develop a professional understanding of podcasting creation, production and dissemination.
In lectures and workshops, you will study the podcasting form, its history, its creative techniques, and the practice of how to make and produce an original and innovative podcast.
The module will consider elements of audience, genre, aural storytelling, podcast narrative, production and distribution.
We will also explore a range of approaches provided by the creative and technical aspects of podcasting.
This module enables students to practice advanced techniques and develop innovative strategies for writing poetry.
Students will read and reflect upon a range of contemporary works (including emergent forms) in order to further develop their own poetics and poetic practice.
Furthermore, the study of poetics as a writerly and speculative discourse will accompany and influence the students' own writing - and the reflection upon the writing - and suggest emergent writing possibilities that students might engage in beyond the module, i.e.
various creative environments and cultural economics.
This module combines both practice and study, in which students can work either independently or collaboratively to design and realise a production for the stage or an unconventional performance space.
The module requires students to undertake the roles within the creative team for a production, including the production designer, set designer, lighting designer, sound designer, costume designer, prop designer, video designer and more.
The module aims to examine the skills and resources available for each of these roles and allow students to explore the avenue that most suits them.
Students can opt to work solo or form groups suited to the area of interest applicable to each students' interests and CPD plan.
Students can work independently or in groups to propose, plan and design an ambitious theoretical production that utilises the experience gained over their three years on the programme.
Embracing a broad spectrum of theatrical design methods to produce a visualised representation and presentation of a theoretical production.
Students may form groups and work collaboratively to fulfil all the design elements of a production, including (but not limited to) set designer, lighting designer, sound designer, AV and costume designer.
Alternatively, students may choose to work independently and design all scenographic elements themselves.
A preliminary seminar aims to introduce the Module and its processes, offering design briefs to be allocated to each group.
A supervisor can be assigned to each group to meet with them at key points over the Semester.
Supervisors may advise students on the mode of work each group is producing, and give feedback on their Draft Proposal.
Groups can then receive formal supervisions during the Semester, including work in progress stages prior to their final assessment and presentation.
The module is designed to simulate a real-world design scenario, requiring students to develop the skills and knowledge necessary to develop concepts, work collaboratively, and produce quality design documentation.
Scriptwriting for Stage and Screen develops students' skills in scriptwriting for film, television and theatre.
Through workshop exercises, group feedback, and seminar-based discussion students will study a variety of writing practices, developing the skills to create character, dialogue, and plot for both the stage and the screen.
In addition to writing their own script, students will also attain a realistic understanding of theatre, film and television industries, including how to present their work within production contexts.
In this module, students have the opportunity to examine the narrative, technical and aesthetic aspects identified in this broad range of narratives through reference to successful published texts and develop their own narratives.
Unrestricted to the format in which they wish to write, students will examine approaches to crafting a successful genre-based novel that will appeal to, meet and potentially challenge the expectations of their respective audiences.
With frequent reference to contemporary works, the module is structured in a way that will be guided by the interests of the learners; contemporary fiction can range from literary writing to crime thrillers, and while writing for historical fiction includes its own specific practices (such as the application of appropriate and accurate research), both creative forms share an enduring popularity with readers.
As such, this makes these areas of writing attractive to new authors, and this module will encourage students to learn and develop practical, incremental skills and progressively apply these to their final assessment and be given the opportunity to evaluate the how, why and when of its production.
In this module, students approach writing for children and young adults in a way that reflects the genre’s relationship to literary fiction and traditional storytelling.
By examining the narrative, technical and aesthetic aspects identified in these narratives—as well as in their own writing—students are encouraged to craft narratives that appeal to readers of all ages.
With frequent reference to contemporary works, the 
module is structured in a way that encourages students to learn and develop practical, incremental skills and progressively apply these to their final project: the opening passage to a novel-length work, with an accompanying outline for the complete story.
This module will introduce students to some of the specific elements of writing science fiction and fantasy.
Although these two genres only emerged fully during the twentieth century, they have their roots in literature that is as old as the classics in the case of fantasy and the writings of Jonathan Swift and Mary Shelley with regard to science fiction.
Frequently a medium for satire and social commentary, this module will explore some of the ways in which science fiction and fantasy authors offer means to develop thought experiments and oblique commentary on contemporary developments.
This  module aims to give you an opportunity to immerse yourself in a specialist area within the creative arts.
The content of the module is shaped by the research and practice expertise of staff members who actively collaborate with and mentor you throughout your exploration of this specialist area.
This ensures that you benefit from the latest insights and methodologies within the chosen specialist area, gaining a well-rounded understanding that integrates theoretical knowledge with practical application.
Examples of assessment methods that are used include coursework, such as written assignments, reports or dissertations; but the greatest emphasis is on the production of a creative portfolio.
The weighting given to each assessment method may vary across each academic year, and the University of Lincoln aims to ensure that staff return in-course assessments to students promptly.
Please note this course has no examinations.
Teaching is enriched by workshops, readings, and masterclasses with visiting contemporary authors, editors and other industry professionals.
Students have previously enjoyed masterclasses with TV presenter and author Chris Packham.
The Creative Writing team were delighted to welcome award-winning science fiction writer Robert Shearman as a visiting senior fellow.
Students have the opportunity to learn from active professional authors with interests in fields as diverse as speculative, contemporary, child, and young adult fiction; creative non-fiction, and graphic novels.
Their publications include novels, plays, short films, audio dramas, graphic novels, poetry, academics books and journals, podcasts, multi-modal texts, and prize-winning short stories.
I always look forward to the exciting, buzzing atmosphere that the start of each term brings.
I can honestly say that studying Creative Writing at Lincoln has been one of the best decisions of my life.
Philip Dixon-Smith
BA (Hons) Creative Writing
The University’s on-campus Great Central Warehouse Library is open seven days a week during key times of the academic year and provides access to more than 200,000 journals and 600,000 print and electronic books, as well as databases and specialist collections.
Creative Writing graduates may choose to pursue careers in various literary and creative professions, such as publishing, journalism, advertising, public relations, marketing, copywriting, editing, the civil service, and communications.
Students can choose to continue their studies at postgraduate level or take qualifications in teaching.
BTEC Extended Diploma: DMM

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/cricriub:
3-4 Years
M931
Criminologists use theory to explore some of the most contentious issues in contemporary society, working to understand the causes of crime and the way in which criminal justice agencies respond to offenders.
Criminological theory forms a key part of this course, enabling students to develop the critical tools needed to understand and explain relevant issues concerning crime, criminality, harm, criminalisation, and criminal justice in contemporary society.
Teaching is research-informed and draws upon many aspects of the social sciences.
Staff specialisms include research in the areas of prisons and policing, drugs markets and recovery programmes, the sex industry, youth violence and justice, counter-terrorism policy, environmental harm, and gender-based violence.
Academics regularly contribute to national policy debates and encourage students to engage with key issues in the study of crime and criminal justice.
Lecturers work closely with local criminal justice agencies and professionals, representatives of which visit the University to give guest lectures and collaborate with staff and students on projects.
Options to study abroad for a year
Undertake voluntary placements in local councils
Choose from a range of optional modules
The first year aims to provide a thorough grounding in criminology and the wider social sciences in order to develop the knowledge and research skills necessary for further study.
As the course progresses, students are able to delve deeper into topics such as criminological theory to explore the potential causes of crime and the way these shape, and are shaped by, criminal justice responses.
Final-year students can explore complex questions about the image and reality of human rights, and the problems and possibilities of different approaches to punishment.
Optional modules in the second and third years enable students to tailor their studies to their career aspirations or areas of particular interest, such as policing.
Criminology at Lincoln is organised and taught by a team of Criminologists who have extensive qualifications, research, and publication experience.
Students are given the opportunity to meet with tutors for individual tutorial sessions to explore in greater detail their own individual learning needs.
As well as directed study, you are expected to undertake independent learning utilising traditional library resources, as well as a wide range of electronic resources.
Criminology at Lincoln is organised and taught by a team of criminologists who have extensive qualifications, research, and publication experience.
The first ever tanks were designed and built in Lincoln before going to the warfront in WW1 (with Lincoln known as 'tank town' for a while) in the twentieth century.
It is a city that has seen enormous social change over the past 100 years shifting from agriculture, industrialisation, de-industrialisation and now to more modern developments such as studentification.
This module explores how change has taken place, reflecting on different social issues have been framed in the context of Lincoln (and Lincolnshire), before exploring contemporary social problems and harms.
Issues such as homelessness, studentification, food bank use, social isolation, health, young people, poverty, families, new arrivals and transport are explored using contemporary social research methods.
By tracing the thread from the past to modern debates on contemporary social problems, we look to show how research can affect social change and enhance our understandings.
This module provides an introduction to Criminology for new students on the programme and is designed to build upon your prior experiences and learning in this field.
We will identify key concepts and frameworks in Criminology, and consider a range of different voices and experiences, some of which have been excluded from criminological knowledge.
The module therefore challenges you to consider not just what you know about crime and Criminology but also how you know, and to reflect upon your own personal learning and development.
The module seeks to explore popular images of criminal justice, and contrasts these depictions with an informed examination of a number of the central pillars of this system.
You will  have the opportunity to examine the complexities and contradictions which exist within the so-called ‘system’ of criminal justice.
You will also study the relationship between images of crime and the resulting criminal justice response which form the basis of this module.
It is hoped that this introduction will encourage you as new students to consider the extent of the so-called ‘problem of crime’ and the limits of current criminal justice ‘solutions’.
This module articulate to students what inequality means.
It examines how they are  experienced and understood by both citizens and policy makers.
Its aims are focused on how inequality is framed in contemporary societies, and the policy responses designed to tackle it.
It will explore how inequalities impact different groups of social divisions (including gender, class and race), reflecting on how policy agenda’s attempts to respond.
Its overall aims will be to give students understanding and knowledge, the skills and capacity to critically analyse how social advantage and disadvantage is produced.
This modules asks what social policy is, exploring the distribution and organization of welfare and wellbeing within societies.
We explore big questions  related to how societies empower citizens through structures of redistribution and provision.
How do we support those impacted by ‘cost of living’ crisis?
How do we create better education or healthcare systems that can support everyone?
How are global issues, such as climate change, also become issues of localised inequality, demanding sufficient policy responses?
Social policy is concerned with how we identify and support vulnerable groups and how society understands, frames and meets the needs of their populations.
Join us on our journey through the heart of the criminal justice system of England and Wales.
The course is designed for those seeking to understand the complexities of crime prevention, law enforcement, the courts, and punishment.
This module offers an introduction to the complex system of justice and the mechanisms that govern society’s response to crime.
Learn about areas of pre-crime strategies, police operations, the intricacies of prosecution, the dynamics of the court system, and the philosophies underpinning punishment and rehabilitation.
You will engage with the most pressing issues and debates that shape contemporary criminal justice policies and discover the emerging trends that forecast the future of legal practice.
The module will enrich your understanding of theories and real-world debates, and you will learn how the CJS has been shaped.
Towards the end of the course, we will broaden the horizon by exploring current issues and comparing CJS from around the world so that you can appreciate international justice systems and their approach to law and order.
This module will prepare you for a successful degree journey, by supporting and scaffolding you to learn the skills that you need to excel in your social and political science degree.
Each week you'll cover a crucial academic skill, which will be tied to the assignment expectations of your specific degree topic, so that the progress you make in this module will also be progress towards your overall degree success.
This module aims to give students the opportunity to develop knowledge and understanding of key social science thinkers and concepts pertinent to all of the disciplines taught within the School.
Throughout, students will be encouraged to think critically about the ideas presented and to examine social problems in the light of a range of academic perspectives.
The aim of this module is to provide you with an opportunity to develop a student-centred grasp of 'crime' and our responses to crime through the application of diverse criminological theory.
Applying Criminology will enable you to consider the variety of ways in which Criminology can be constructed and used.
Through the application of criminological theory to real world and simulated scenarios you will develop the ability to both critically evaluate theories of crime and deviance and to analyse contemporary policy and practices of crime control.
This core module introduces you to the relations and tensions between human rights and contemporary strategies of law enforcement.
Together, we will consider two imperatives that lie at the core of criminal justice legitimacy: crime control and the rule of law.
We will analyse the substantive rights and rights to due process afforded to suspects, offenders and victims of crime, as well as their implications for public policy.
Particular attention will be paid to justifications and criticism of pre-emptive and preventative measures and the impacts on the human rights of those subject to surveillance and profiling.
You will learn about positive obligations under human rights frameworks to provide security.
You will also learn about the varied and changing attitudes towards human rights among the public, the media and political elites.
In Applying Research you will learn about, propose and practice using different research methodologies in the social sciences.
The module is divided into three distinct learning blocks.
The first block addresses key philosophical issues that shape social science research and the major methodologies and data analyses techniques used in qualitative research.
The second block focuses on quantitative methodologies and the analyses and presentation of quantitative data to a variety of audiences such as potential employers, policymakers, and other academics.
The third block concentrates on the application of qualitative and/or qualitative methodologies to create a plan for a small research project that will guide your 3rd year independent study.
This module focuses on the organisations that make up the criminal justice system, and the experience of working in them.
You will hear what it's like to work in these jobs from practitioners themselves, and will gain a stronger understanding of how government policies and other pressures can affect the organisations' day to day work.
You will also begin to prepare yourself to work in this sort of role, developing a career plan and hearing from organisations with paid and volunteering opportunities.
This module aims to analyse some of the seminal works which have been significant to the academic development of sociology.
Students will have the opportunity to explore a variety of classical and contemporary texts, with the aim of providing them with an in-depth understanding of sociological themes and theories across time.
This module will seek to examine a series of articles and books which are of sociological significance and have emerged from the late 20th Century into the 21st Century.
Policies help to provide guidance to criminal justice officials.
Whether in the UK or the USA, policy can help to inform decisions where there may be higher levels of discretion in sentencing guidelines, or where there are important and complex issues that require attention.
In this course, you will work alongside students in the UK and the USA to compare criminal justice practices and theory informed by policy.
You will learn policy analysis skills, and apply these to understand how criminal justice policy is made, and how it can be used to solve issues across different countries.
This module is delivered online, in collaboration with staff and students from Clemson University, USA.
This module aims to explore the cultural, practical and theoretical developments relating to sex work, drawing upon national and international examples.
Taking a comparative approach, this module seeks to understand how scholars conceptualise sex work within different competing feminist frameworks and how these ideas reflect, or are at odds with, popular public and political discourse.
This module aims to enable students to analyse the priorities and developments of welfare states over time, and through analysis of these developments, equip students with the tools to interpret key contemporary social, political, and economic trends.
Education is of vital importance to the world – opportunities, inequalities and the overall health of the global economy relies on it.
This module will explore how educational opportunity is framed in the context of the UK (and globally).
It will critically explore inequalities in education, drawing on practices and theories within the sociology of education.
It will analyse how different social institutions frame education, as well as individual experiences that impact progress, attainment, outcomes and patterns of inequality over the life-course.
It will use a lifecourse-based narrative approach comprising early education, primary education, secondary education, further education, higher education and transitions to the labour market, taking into account issues of inequality and immobility throughout.
This module aims to examine the impact (and sometimes the lack of impact) of ideology on practice in social policy.
Whilst the focus of the module is on the experience of the United Kingdom, comparison with other states will be made where appropriate.
This module is designed to provide an introduction to the activities of the United Nations, as well as providing an understanding of the practices of international diplomacy and governance.
The module will use a discussion of contemporary international issues to explore some of the protocol and procedures of diplomacy at the United Nations.
It will also provide students with an introduction to issues of international organization and international law and treaty-making.
All of this will assist students in preparing for their role as a “diplomat” at simulated United Nations General Assembly.
Resurgent nationalist violence, transnational migration, and the rise of anti-European populist nationalist parties, have forced academics and policy makers to engage and confront the enduring power of national and ethnic identities and the role they play in contemporary political life.
This module explores nations and nationalism, examining the sources of our most basic and powerful feelings of political loyalty and attachment – our ideas about who we are, why we are and who has the right to rule over us.
After examining the competing and contrasting approaches to understanding nations and nationalism the module then explores the intersection between nationalism and other key categories in social science such as: political mobilisation, populism,  violence, culture, gender, the environment and globalisation.
In the Organised Crime in Global Perspective module, you will delve into the complex and evolving world of organised crime.
You will be challenged to critically reflect on the definitions and meanings of organised crime, both in academic discussions and in public discourse.
This module guides you through the international nature of organised crime and lets you explore the various social and economic factors that influence it.
By the end of this module, you will have a comprehensive understanding of the intricate issues associated with organised crime and its impact on society.
You will also develop robust critical thinking and analytical skills to address these challenges.
If you are interested in deepening your understanding of the global impact of organised crime and its relevance in contemporary society, this module is an excellent choice for you.
This module will look at contemporary issues in UK policing and their wider societal context.
Each week, you will look at a key aspect of British policing, from police culture, the use of force, and policing a diverse society, to big data and predictive policing.
You'll explore how crises have often led to fundamental police reforms; and you'll look at different ways of thinking about the purposes of policing: is it enforcing the law?
Or making people feel safe?
You'll also examine contemporary issues and debates.
All of this will build to a single written assignment for which you'll be given a clear template and guidance.
This module introduces students to analytical and theoretical approaches to sex and sexuality, with special attention to how these are of interest and utility to scholars of politics and society.
Central to the module's concerns are the ways in which gender and sexuality are key sites where political claims are made, and through which regulatory processes are imposed and resisted.
Thus, the module draws upon the rich literature and scholarship at the intersection of issues of sex, sexuality and politics in order to equip students to both use materials on sex and sexuality in political analysis and to understand the ways in which sex and sexuality are domains central to the operation of power and the constitution of political and social identity.
This module is designed as an introduction to how psychology might contribute to our understanding of the various actors and organisations within the criminal justice process.
You will critically compare and contrast the theories and methodologies employed in creating psychological knowledges with those commonly used in the discipline of criminology, and in this context will be expected to recognise both the contributions and problems presented by the use of psychological knowledges in the criminal justice process.
You will also be expected to undertake your own research project around a psychological theme and present (individually) on how your findings might impact on a relevant criminal justice issue.
In this module, you will explore what happens in a major disaster or emergency: who takes charge?
How do they know what to do?
You'll explore how public services in the UK prepare for disasters, and how they work together to respond.
You'll also explore some of the challenges of international disaster management - and how we can build more resilient communities.
The Placement Year gives students an opportunity to develop employability skills by engaging in full-time work within an organisation.
The Placement Year is a three-way co-operative activity between employer, student and University from which all parties benefit.
The Placement Year constitutes a work placement during an academic year and may be funded by full-time paid employment taking place between Level 5 and Level 6.
Students wishing to undertake the work placement year must successfully complete Level 5 of their programme.
This module encourages students to undertake one or more external activities relevant to their programme of study, and to engage in a critical reflection of the nature of this activity and how it relates to society as a whole and to their personal development as individuals.
Relevant activities may involve significant interaction with an organisation outside the University providing an appropriate experience additional to the student’s programme of studies, such as voluntary work or mentoring within a service-providing organisation.
Please note that students will be expected to play a significant role in initiating and arranging their programme of experience and to take responsibility for the frequency and form of experience.
There may be additional costs in the form of transportation and accommodation depending on where students wish to pursue experience.
The experience will be required to consist of a minimum of 30 hours.
Staff will offer support through the course of the module to support students with placements.
This module will introduce students to how the third sector works, emphasizing the importance of local state actors, and how we make a difference in such spaces.
The module examines the the contribution of the third sector to social, economic and political life.
It explores of the theories which underpin the study of the third sector, an examination of theories and the current state of volunteering and charitable giving, examination of the historical and current public policy agenda in relation to the third sector in the UK, the EU and more generally and, an overview of current issues in the third sector and how social scientists go about studying them.
Furthermore, the module will invite speakers from voluntary sector to share their experiences.
Strategic studies introduce students to the concepts of strategy and war through different case studies.
The module offers students the opportunity to explore the different theories and forms of strategy.
It also enables student to understand key themes, including the changing nature of war, the security implications of new technologies, the rise of new actors, as well as the different dimensions of conflict in world politics today.
The main task students would need to engage with is to evaluate and explain contemporary issues and thus deepen their understanding of Strategic Studies.
The transformation in the nature of the current warfare as well as surprising events, such as 9/11 or the rise of new pandemics, have created a new context for study with great implications on core concepts of Strategic Studies.
This module aims to provide students with an introduction to the study of intelligence.
It focuses on the basic concepts in intelligence by establishing first what is meant by intelligence, before examining the various elements of intelligence - collection, analysis, counterintelligence and associated activities such as covert political action.
This course aims to provide students with an advanced and comprehensive overview of transnational security in the 21st century.
Specifically, it seeks to understand the issues, actors and solutions that drive security agendas in various parts of the world.
Through a detailed study of key debates and key issues in the study and practice of security, the module engages with the following three questions: Security for whom and from what?; Security by whom?; Security of what and where?
Emphasis will be placed on the philosophical and political connotations of certain security problems, the impact of security actors in the meaning and practice of security, and the ‘constructed’ nature of our understanding of certain contemporary security challenges.
This module will examine the nature, extent and impact of domestic violence and abuse (DVA).
Taking a criminological approach, the module will explore a wide range of academic, policy and practitioner perspectives.
You will study the recent development of domestic violence and abuse as a criminological problem within a changing political landscape.
This will include understanding a survivor’s journey in the context of victimology and examining the legal, criminal justice and community responses.
The module will also explore the emerging literature on primary and secondary prevention perpetrator programmes.
Over half the planet’s population now lives in an urban area and urbanisation across the globe looks set to continue spreading inexorably.
The histories of this process are vast and characterised by wealth creation and uneven industrial development, technological transformation and environmental degradation, empire and colonial legacy, social advance and exclusion alike.
Cities therefore are contradictory sites of human development patterned by opportunity, inequality, exploitation and conflict.
These traits pose challenges for the meeting of human welfare needs and for our understandings of contemporary life within cities.
This module aims to enable students to analyse the emergence of cities across time and space, and through analysis of the city, enable students the opportunity to develop the tools to interpret key contemporary sociological, political and policy trends.
This module will develop the following skills and attributes:
•     Critical thinking
•     Independent research
•     Digital and data literacy 
•     Understandings of society & future generations
•     Global orientation 
•     Policy analysis
This module seeks to explore the relationship between work and society, drawing on different classical and contemporary sociological theories of work.
It aims to examine key areas within the sociology of work such as concepts of work, work-place inequalities, resistance and the reality and challenges of engaging in paid work in the 21st Century.
•     Critical thinking
•     Leadership and influence
•     Digital and data literacy
•     Understandings of society & future generations
•     Global orientation
•     Policy analysis
This module provides an exciting opportunity for you to learn about the youth justice system in depth, through our partnership with Lincolnshire Youth Offending Service.
By engaging with practitioners in the classroom you will see how theories about young people's offending shape contemporary policy and service structures, and how professionals work in practice with young people in the criminal justice system.
This module will prompt you to reflect upon contemporary examples of 'youth deviance' utilising theoretical ideas from the sociologies of youth and deviance.
Through a reflection upon contemporary narratives of young people as 'deviant', 'dangerous' and 'out of control', the module encourages critical reflection upon the construction of these narratives.
Through engagement with sociological approaches to understanding youth and deviance, you will be introduced to explanations for young people's engagement in activities regarded as 'deviant'.
The module will focus upon contemporary examples, such as, youth violence, recreational substance use, and young people's engagement in differing forms of protest movements.
This module seeks to delve deeply into the effects that powerful entities have on the struggle for social justice.
Rather than taking the customary approach of examining mainly the adversities that underprivileged individuals must confront, this module examines actions of government entities, corporate organisations, and other powerful groups from a critical perspective and human rights standpoint.
The concepts of 'harm', 'power' and 'justice' will be thoroughly analysed in order to shed light on practices employed by influential entities, as well as identifying potential courses of action for mitigation, protection, and reparation.
This module is the capstone of the research skills training that you have developed in your programme.
It aims to build your capacity for independent research: thinking and problem solving, design of an independent research project, selection of an appropriate topic and methodology, and writing up of results in a substantial dissertation.
Guidance will be provided throughout by your designated supervisor.
To support students with an applied and practical interest in the subject matter, the module coordinator and supervisor may decide to allow you to base their research project on a negotiated work placement, whether arranged independently by yourself t or through the University, where the learning outcomes will be demonstrated by a work-placed project along with a reflective report on their experience that engages with relevant academic literature.
In this third-year criminology module, you will gain an in-depth understanding of penology and penal policy within the wider context of social control.
The module combines historical and theoretical perspectives with contemporary practices, equipping you with the knowledge to critically analyse and understand the complexities of punishment and social control.
You will study the foundational theories of punishment, explore the philosophy of punishment including justice, deterrence, and rehabilitation, and engage with current debates in criminal justice.
This module will support students in developing their knowledge of a range of perspectives on the policy process and how analyse relevant policy case studies.
It places emphasis on important models and perspectives and explores a range of current ideas which have a significant impact upon the making and implementation of policy, such as the concept of partnership, notions of participation, and issues of accountability.
Have you ever considered a career as a data analyst?
Data analysts make sense of large sets of data and help organisations to make informed decisions.
Together with Lincolnshire Police and Lincolnshire County Council, we will introduce you to the world of data analysis.
You will learn to make sense of real datasets from the police and/or other public bodies.
The course will teach you advanced data analysis methods and data visualisations.
You will be taught in a way that does not require any maths skills, nor will you be required to learn maths as part of the course.
Step-by-step guides will be used to introduce you to the relevant software (e.g., Jamovi and Orange).
The course is not just about theoretical learning; it is an opportunity to learn skills that can help you make a real-world impact.
Beyond the technical skills, you will refine your critical thinking and decision-making skills, equipping you with many transferable skills for a wide range of sectors.
Dive into a module that is about more than just academia.
It is about acquiring skills that can contribute to societal change.
Join us to harness the transformative power of data and open doors to a future rich with possibilities.
This module aims to introduce students to different paradigms of the 'body' and 'embodiment'.
Recent research suggests that our understandings and our relationship with our own and other ‘bodies’ has been and is continuing to undergo radical changes.
This module will seek to explore these ongoing developments in Western and non-Western cultures and societies.
This module aims to encourage critical thinking about the impacts of family policies on children and families through the application of sociological theories and concepts to develop critical explanations.
Students who engage with this module will develop an understanding of the nature and complexity of family policies and their impacts; of family change and diversity over time; and how and why particular services and institutions might intervene in family life and shape social experiences and relationships.
The module also provides the foundational and critical knowledge required for any professional role that involves engagement with families.
This module aims to further develop the students’ knowledge about contemporary sociological research and social theory by drawing upon ‘cutting-edge’ developments within sociology.
The themes of this module will reflect the current research being undertaken by contemporary sociologists.
This module aims to introduce students to a range of contemporary models of counselling and guidance practice.
The aim is to give students the opportunity to develop skills and attitudes that can be of value in a variety of human service settings.
A key feature of the module will be to allow students the opportunity to make judgements as to the appropriateness of using such techniques in different scenarios.
This module considers the role and meanings of drugs in society.
You will be asked to consider how we understand concepts such as 'drugs' versus 'medicines', what we mean by 'addiction' and 'harm', as well as the historical and political underpinnings to drugs policy.
You will explore concepts such as drug 'normalisation', drug markets and norms of supply, different types of drug use, and the legalisation debate.
This module seeks to emphasise the significance of emotions in everyday social life and to challenge some of the essentialist explanations of human emotion by exploring ‘emotions’ as social constructs.
In doing so, the module aims to explore the role emotions play in social action, considering, for example, how we form personal relationships, make sense of death, dying and falling in love.
Furthermore, this module will also consider how emotions are ‘gendered’, ‘racialised’ and explore the role they play in the workplace, and in laws and governance.
This module explores the varied and diverse experiences of imprisonment.
The aim of the module is to empower you to critically consider both the intended and unintended effects of prison and to enable you to develop an independent and reflexive understanding of policy and practice within the prison environment.
Throughout the module you will engage with guest speakers who will share their experiences with you and encourage you to consider prison and the effects of imprisonment from a variety of perspectives.
The module will be delivered through interactive workshops.
Stories of extremism and political violence are all around us.
Media and social media stories on terrorism and counterterrorism are common, despite terrorism being quite rare in many Western countries.
In this module, you will explore the complex issues of extremism and terrorism: what they entail, why they have captured the imagination of so many, and why individuals and groups become radicalised and are willing to commit acts of terrorism.
You will learn about the threats we face and what governments can do to address these issues.
You will examine counterterrorism through the lens of the four Ps: Prevention, Pursuit, Protective Security, and Emergency Preparedness.
By understanding what extremism and terrorism are, the true threat we face, and how the government responds, you will gain insight into why extremism is escalating and why terrorism will continue to be a significant problem for years to come.
This module explores the issue of gender-based violence (GBV) in contemporary society.
GBV is understood as behaviour or attitudes underpinned by inequitable power relations that hurt, threaten or undermine people because of their gender or (perceived) sexuality.
The module starts by addressing the definitions and conceptual boundaries utilised in understanding GBV, and key theoretical perspectives on GBV, taking an in-depth look at debates in GBV scholarship, such as issues around intersectionality, patriarchy and patriarchal bargain, e.g., whether this is a useful concept and how far it can explain (global) gendered power relations.
These issues will be developed through case studies of specific forms of GBV such as domestic violence and sexual coercion and rape.
These case studies will explore specific forms of GBV in the context of the broader theoretical debates, as well as the current knowledge base on incidence, prevalence and responses to GBV.
The module will also explore theoretical, methodological and ethical considerations when researching GBV.
Now two decades old, green criminology - the study of environmental harm, crime, law, regulation, victimization, and justice - has increasing relevance to contemporary problems at local, national, and international levels.
Students who successfully complete Green Criminology will  be able to identify unique major theoretical perspective on how human behavior causes and exacerbates environmental conditions that threaten the planet's viability.
Students will develop their critical thinking skills when applying concepts discussed in lectures to seminar activities  focused on controversies such as corporate environmental crime, the complicity of international financial institutions, state-sponsored environmental destruction, and the role of non-governmental organizations in addressing environmental harms.
The final assessment is creative in nature and students will draw upon a diverse body of research from a variety of disciplines to design and present a poster illustrating  a green criminology issue .
Housing is facing a crisis in the UK.
For the past twenty years, social housing lists have far outstripped demand from vulnerable tenants that need more support.
Housing is of the upmost importance to personal wellbeing, as well as providing societal and economic benefits.
Yet, how has this crisis developed?
Why are so many people struggling to find adequate and afford adequate, safe homes?
Why is it homelessness continues to be so prevalent and what are policymakers doing to address these issues?
These are just some of the questions this module asks through an historical, social and policy exploration of housing in the UK.
It will include fieldtrips and analysis from local housing officers – working in the space of housing and homelessness.
This module introduces you to human rights at both the conceptual and practical level.
You will explore the theoretical arguments around the source of human rights and identifies some of the problems and possibilities which emerge from such readings.
You will produce a report on a real-world contemporary human rights challenge or injustice and link that challenge back to underlying theoretical concerns.
In this third-year criminology module, you will explore the complex journey of societal reintegration after incarceration.
This module offers an in-depth analysis of the challenges and strategies crucial for successful reintegration, with a strong emphasis on the roles of support systems and rehabilitation.
You will engage with diverse theories and practices related to desistance from crime, focusing on the transformative impact of relationships, identity, and community involvement.
The module covers a wide spectrum of post-incarceration challenges, including mental health issues, social stigma, and legal obstacles, providing you with a comprehensive understanding of the factors that influence successful reintegration.
Enhancing the learning experience, this module features guest speakers from social enterprises, charities, and organisations actively working in the field of reintegration.
These sessions with guest speakers will offer practical insights and real-world perspectives, bridging the gap between theory and practice.
You will have the unique opportunity to hear firsthand accounts of the challenges faced by individuals post-incarceration and the effectiveness of various support systems and rehabilitation strategies.
Gender and masculinity are contested in contemporary academic and public debates.
Polarised popular narratives construct masculinity as either inherently “toxic”, powerful, and damaging to women (and men), or, in stark contrast, as fragile, under siege, and in urgent need of reclamation.
Critical masculinity scholars have scrutinised these claims, examining the role of men and masculinity in creating equality and/or reinforcing inequality in a world profoundly shaped by continuing gendered inequalities and power relations.
The module draws on feminist, interdisciplinary masculinity studies to examine academic concepts of masculinity, notions of hegemonic (or ‘dominant’) masculinity, and intersections between masculinity and other factors (for example, race, culture, and sexuality, amongst others).
It applies these concepts to understanding how constructions of masculinities function in different empirical contexts to reproduce power and inequalities and/or to provide opportunities for resistance.
Students will be encouraged to develop their own critical, informed perspectives on how gender and masculinity shape social and political structures and everyday lives.
This module explores how European countries have responded to increased migration, its challenges, and its opportunities.
Students examine how and why European states (including the UK) have at times criminalised migration and at other times encouraged it.
They  labour migration, family migration, and refugee migration flows to and within Europe since World War II.
The module explores how borders have become central to European politics and society, how various actors in the political arena have both propelled this development and responded to it.
It examines the influence in this area that interest groups, the EU, and political parties have had.
The module particularly examines the UK within this comparative context, using Lincolnshire as a case study.
In the "Policing Crime and Deviance: UK and Beyond" module, you will explore the diverse forms of policing and the crime control worldwide.
This course will provide an in-depth understanding of key policing concepts and how they differ across various global contexts.
You will examine a wide range of topics, including the significance of plural policing and the role of private security operations internationally.
The module also offers a comparative analysis of race-related policing issues, with specific focus on the UK and the US, and explores vigilante actions in regions like the Global North and the Global South, particularly Latin America.
Moreover, you will look into the use of technology in policing, including the study of algorithmic strategies in places such as China.
This module provides a valuable opportunity for you to develop your critical thinking and analytical skills and to gain a deep understanding of the complex issues surrounding policing and crime in contemporary societies.
This module looks at the way contemporary issues in UK policing affect Lincolnshire Police in practice.
The module is run as a 2-hour workshop, exploring contemporary challenges in policing and how they play out in the operational realities of policing in Lincolnshire.
You will be taught at least half of your workshops by policing professionals including serving police officers and other practitioners.
Topics covered may include governance, armed police, public order, equality and diversity in policing, mental health, leadership, police culture and assaults.
This interdisciplinary module will explore the issues of race, racism, race relations, racial conflict, and practices of anti-racism in the contemporary UK and worldwide.
Although the main focus of this module is on the UK, examples from different parts of the world and a comparative lens will enable us to examine these issues from a global perspective.
Beginning with colonial discourses of the ‘racial other’ and the history of colonialism, slavery and indentured labour, this module will examine various theoretical and conceptual debates on race and racism, and critically assess how changing conceptualisations of race and racism arise in specific socio-political and historical contexts.
The module will also provide students with the chance to assess the continued significance of race and racism in the contemporary world.
Students can benefit from an cross-disciplinary approach that addresses themes across Sociology, Criminology, Politics, International Relations, and Social Policy.
This module offers a criminological understanding of  unlawful homicide (unlawful killing of humans) and the ways in which societies respond to this issue.
The module begins by exploring what homicide is, identifying and examining the different forms of homicide that we find in human societies.
You will be introduced to the ‘ecological framework’ for examining the differing causes of homicide and that are used to support the development of differing responses.
You will then learn about the different parts of the ecological framework in more detail, which include ‘individual’, 'relational', ‘communal’, and ‘societal’ explanations.
The module will also provide you with an understanding of how homicide is patterned geographically and how these patterns are linked to social inequalities.
In the final part of the module, you will learn about some of the different responses to homicide that are utilised by governments and communities contemporarily, and you will explore critically their impact upon this form of offending.
The module explores political challenges, processes and debates around the presence of culturally diverse populations in the countries such as the UK, Germany, France and examines the role this presence plays in understanding of national identities.
This module explores the origins of war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide.
It investigates a diverse range of reasons for mass atrocities and genocides through placing them historical, political, philosophical and social contexts to illuminate the origins of such harms and their impact on societies.
This module considers how to engage with children and families to assess and respond to needs and how to make professional judgements in decisions to safeguard and promote children’s welfare.
A further key theme is working in partnership both with children and families and other agencies, considering how, in practice this can best be promoted at different levels and stages of decision-making.
Emphasis will be on current research and developments.
This module will be of particular value to students as a preparation for making career choices and to enhance their employability.
This module aims to offer students the opportunity to explore in depth the context and issues of adult health and social care and the work roles available within it.
It focuses on both national policy developments and local provision, with the emphasis on the perspectives of service users and practitioners.
The module will be of particular value to students as a preparation for making career choices and to enhance their employability.
To reflect the diverse ambitions of our students, and the variety of careers studying criminology can lead to, we have created specialist pathways within the course.
By choosing specific modules, you can create a qualification suited to your dream career.
Alongside a more focused curriculum, these pathways allow you benefit from targeted advice from our Careers and Employability Team, or support from our Global Opportunities Team.
Following a pathway will change the name of your degree to either BA (Hons) Criminology (Criminal Justice) or BA (Hons) Criminology (Global Justice and Security).
This pathway allows you to focus on criminal justice practice and professional skills development.
You can gain useful experience by focusing on exciting real-world projects or work experience within a local organisation, and enhance your employability through tailored careers support and guidance.
Take a global approach to your studies by tackling topics relevant to the international community, including environmental harm, cybercrime, transnational organised crime and security, terrorism and extremism, human rights, and war crimes.
There may also be chances to learn online alongside students from the USA.
A notable feature of Criminology at Lincoln is the way in which the degree is both taught and assessed involving student-centred work.
This may include group-based and individual research projects and assessments, multimedia presentations, case studies, auto-critiques, self-appraisal, vocationally relevant 'live' projects, oral examinations, and conferences.
These methods are designed to make a significant contribution to the consolidation of important transferable skills, which are valued by employers across a ranger of sectors.
A notable feature of criminology at Lincoln is the way in which the degree is both taught and assessed involving student-centred work.
This course opened me up to a whole range of criminological theories that meant when I was doing the assessments I was expanding how I understood those topics in our current landscape, but also what could be done in the future.
George Keyse
BA (Hons) Criminology
You'll have an opportunity to apply for our voluntary, competitive work placements scheme, currently run with a local council.
This scheme aims to offer valuable experience of a professional policy environment and observe how policy is set by central government and executed by local authorities, such as how competing priorities can result in decisions made on allocating resources.
Please note, this opportunity is subject to the council’s ongoing commitment to the scheme.
Recent publications by undergraduate students at Lincoln include research by Ben Pelling on 'mid level' recreational drugs supply and by Mikey Hirst on the advertising for semaglutide and testosterone clinics on social media .
Ever wondered what it's like to go from studying criminology to working with the police?
In this video, Max, a graduate of our BA (Hons) Criminology course, shares his experience transitioning from the classroom to a career with the Lincolnshire Police.
At the heart of student life is our library which will provide you with access to more than 260,000 journals and 750,000 print and electronic books, as well as databases and specialist collections.
You can take advantage of our range of modern study areas located across campus, which include learning lounges that give you the opportunity to study alone or with your friends and course mates.
A range of computer suites is available in buildings across our Brayford Pool Campus.
Here's an example of just one of the exciting and relevant public lectures available on the course.
Colton Scrivner, Behavioural Scientist in the Department of Psychology at Arizona State University, explains why we love True Crime.
Graduates have gone on to positions in a a diverse range of areas, including roles in the probation and prison services, health and social services, police authorities, youth work, victim support, government policy, and education.
Some students progress to further study at Master’s and doctoral level.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/crisolub:
LM39
Criminology and Sociology at Lincoln aims to give students the skills needed to evaluate the strengths and weaknesses of social, cultural, and political responses to crime and deviance.
Students are asked to apply their knowledge to real-life issues, and have an opportunity to analyse the different social constructions of everyday life in order to better understand the diverse groups and structures that make up modern society.
Choose from optional modules to suite your preferences
The course enables you to advance your discipline-specific knowledge, and  provides the opportunity to develop a range of cognitive, practical, and transferable skills that may be relevant to further academic study and employment.
Academic staff undertake research in a broad range of areas.
They work closely with local criminal justice agencies and professionals, such as the police and youth offending services, to enable students to access and learn from real-world knowledge and practices.
Students are encouraged to build links with employers and develop skills in analytics, problem-solving, research methods, team-working, and public speaking.
In your first year, you can develop skills in independent learning, research, and analysis.
As the course progresses, you'll be able to shape your learning around your own interests and career aspirations by choosing from a range of optional modules influenced not only by sociology and criminology, but also social policy and politics.
In the third year, you can go on to consider punishment theory and practice alongside the mechanisms of social policy making.
You may also choose to specialise in diverse optional topics drawn from across the School, including the study of policing, work, human rights, genocide, and civil society.
The course aims to combine aspects of both directed and independent learning.
Each module is usually delivered by means of a weekly lecture and seminar.
Seminars are a space for you and other students to discuss and debate the issues raised in the lecture and engage in critical reflection on set readings relating to such issues.
Further methods of delivery include visits from practitioners and guest speakers, collaborative workshops, and IT sessions.
You will also have the opportunity to meet with tutors for individual tutorial sessions to explore in greater detail your own individual learning needs.
As well as this directed study, you are expected to undertake independent learning utilising traditional library material as well as a wide range of electronic resources.
This module is designed to introduce students to sociology by offering the opportunity to consider some of the key themes, theories and concepts which are important to the study of this subject.
Students can explore the historical development of sociology, including the role of the early important sociologists such as Emile Durkheim, Max Weber, George Herbert Mead and C.
Wrights Mills, amongst others.
The different and significant sociological perspectives will also be examined and discussed alongside some of the major themes explored within sociology.
This module will develop the following transferable skills and attributes in preparation for employment:
•     Critical thinking 
•     Independent research 
•     Curiosity
•     Understandings of society & future generations
This module seeks to introduce students to politics at the European level through an analysis of challenges in European politics and policy making.
Beginning with the history of European integration and the first attempts to secure peace through economic interdependency, the module focuses on the development of the EU institutions and the ways in which policy-makers, bureaucrats, intellectuals and civil society actors have attempted to resolve problems of cooperation in an ever larger Union.
This module responds to calls for scholars of the social sciences - especially those working in areas such as international relations, development studies and transnational and globalization studies - to more fully understand and more critically engage with the complex dynamics that shape relations between the majority and minority worlds.
At this outset, this involves identifying how these relationships are informed by the politics of representation and processes of knowledge production and dissemination.
In doing so, the module draws upon contemporary debates surrounding postcolonialism and decoloniality.
By analysing the complexities of representing diverse voices, experiences and cultures, the module investigates the ethical implications and challenges of speaking for others.
In the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic, the governance of global health has become a major issue in world politics.
Increasingly, health and healthcare issues cross national borders.
Intergovernmental organizations (e.g.
the World Health Organization), non-governmental organizations (e.g.
The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation) and multinational corporations (‘big pharma’) play key roles in global health, as well as national governments and health systems.
This module examines the key actors in global health and their contributions to the governance of a range of global health issues, such as infectious disease, reproductive health and medical tourism.
This module aims to provide students with the opportunity to develop an in-depth knowledge of how the UK Parliament works, in theory and in practice.
It will aim to examine Parliament’s twin relationships with the Executive and with the citizen, and situate these within broader theories and debates about democratic accountability and the nature of representation.
The module also aims to bring students into closer contact with Parliament through handling Parliamentary materials and by facilitating contact with Parliamentarians through, for example an external speaker series, and when possible an optional visit to Parliament.
Please note that where opportunities arise to take part in a trip to Parliament, students are expected to cover their own transportation and meal costs.
A notable feature of Criminology  and Sociology at Lincoln is the way in which the degree is both taught and assessed involving student-centred work.
This might include group-based and individual research projects, multimedia presentations, case studies, auto-critiques, self-appraisal, vocationally relevant 'live' projects, oral examinations, and conferences.
You are encouraged to build links with employers and to develop skills in analytics, problem-solving, research methods, team-working, and public speaking.
In the final year, you have the opportunity to combine your skills and undertake their own chosen area of study in the preparation of an Independent Study.
These methods of assessment are designed to enable you to develop a range of transferable skills.
You'll have the opportunity to apply for the voluntary, competitive work placements scheme which is run with a local council.
This offers valuable experience of a professional policy environment and a chance to observe how policy is set by central government and executed by local authorities, including how competing priorities can result in different decisions about where to allocate resources.
Please note, this opportunity is subject to the council’s ongoing commitment to the scheme, and that students are responsible for their own travel, accommodation, and general living costs while undertaking a placement.
At the heart of student life is our library which offers access to more than 260,000 journals and 750,000 print and electronic books, as well as databases and specialist collections.
The teaching team have excellent links with local criminal justice agencies, including the Lincolnshire Police, local youth offending service, local councils, policy makers, and the third sector.
These provide opportunities for partnership delivery of modules, guest lectures offering professional insights, as well as volunteering, dissertations and additional student projects.
____________

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/dandanub:
W500
The University of Lincoln's BA (Hons) Dance degree explores the link between creative practice and the theoretical study of dance with the opportunity to examine disciplines including technique, choreography, performance, teaching, and research.
Dance training at Lincoln focuses on contemporary techniques and works to develop and nurture creative practice.
A variety of modules aim to help students to develop transferable skills in preparation for their future career.
The course offers a regular dance classes in contemporary dance techniques, contemporary ballet, commercial-based practices, anatomy, fitness and somatics, choreography and performance (live, digital, and site specific) and dance management and production.
The course aims to equip you with the knowledge essential to become self-producing artists operating within the dance industry as well skills to pursue a portfolio career within the arts after graduation.
The practice-based curriculum reflects the vocational needs of professional dancers.
It gives students the opportunity to engage with practical and theoretical methods to become stronger dancers and more dynamic dance-makers.
This degree is founded in professional practice, and the Lincoln School of Creative Arts is proud to be part of a vibrant community of academics and professional artists.
Students can benefit from a visiting artists programme and participate in professional company workshops.
A variety of modules aim to help you to develop transferable skills in preparation for their future career.
The course offers regular dance classes in contemporary dance techniques, contemporary ballet, commercial-based practices, anatomy, fitness and somatics, choreography and performance (live, digital, and site specific) and dance management and production.
It gives you the opportunity to engage with practical and theoretical methods to become a stronger dancer and more dynamic dance-maker.
You can also benefit from a visiting artists programme and participate in professional company workshops.
450-seat professional theatre on campus
Opportunities to tour performances around the UK
Optional additional qualifications/awards
Opportunities to perform with the Lincoln Dance Collective
Credits for use against ticketed performances at the Lincoln Arts Centre
*Guardian University Guide 2025 (out of 83 ranking institutions).
The course is organised into four strands that develop throughout the duration of the programme and are designed to prepare you for your future careers.
These are: - Dance Technique - Improvisation and Choreography - Critical Contexts and Applied Practice - Industry and Employability
This allows You to develop advanced skills in a range of areas to enhance employability prospects.
You may also be able to explore other creative disciplines through lenses of urgent cultural agendas, themes, and ideas, to see how performers, creators, and thinkers can work together.
Initially the course focuses on the fundamentals of technique, choreography and improvisation.
It progresses to expand bodily awareness through other areas of dance, such as dance anatomy and fitness, somatic practices, digital/screen-based practice, and contact improvisation.
In the final year, you may have the opportunity to demonstrate and enhance your skills to refine your own interests or specialisms.
You can participate in a touring dance company, independent practice as research, choreographic projects, and dance in education.
You may also have the opportunity to attend lectures that consider the market and industry to develop skills for managing, producing, funding, and marketing your own work.
Studio and workshop sessions are supplemented by lectures and seminars, which aim to form an understanding of both the theoretical and practical aspects of dance.
You may also have the opportunity to work away from the University on outreach, performance tours, and community-based projects, incorporating technical and vocational skills, in order to experience dance as a creative enterprise.
Across the course you will be encouraged to stretch and expand their skills and may also have the opportunity to undertake a deeper exploration of an area which interests you .
These are:
- Dance Technique - Improvisation and Choreography - Critical Contexts and Applied Practice - Industry and Employability
This allows you to develop advanced skills in a range of areas to enhance employability prospects.
This module aims to increase your potential as a creative practitioner.
Through studio practice sessions, you will be guided through a series of choreographic approaches to understand how improvisation and composition exist together.
You will be encouraged to use physical skills developed from contemporary techniques as a point of departure to develop your own movement ideas, languages, forms and identities.
Students will investigate the choreographic portfolio of a significant practitioner from the 20th or 21st Century, and use their choreographic process as an inspiration to develop an original choreographic work.
The module gives an opportunity for students to work collaboratively with their peers and tutor, and students are asked to contribute to the choreography, set design, light, sound and costume design as part of this module.
The work is usually performed in a studio setting, and may be performed again as part of the January public showcase in the Lincoln Arts Centre theatre.
This module will provide a sound and detailed anatomical and physiological knowledge with a focus on awareness of the mechanics of the human body to support your technical training and help you better understand the functioning of the body in motion.
You will focus on the cardio-respiratory and neuromuscular systems, the module will aim to help identify key aspects of human movement such as alignment, posture, muscle strength, developing flexibility, and how to utilise this knowledge for safe dance practice and physical progression.
Within this module, students will develop an awareness of multiple contemporary dance techniques and will be encouraged to develop their strength, flexibility, and coordination.
You will be introduced to key principles of safe dance practice and effective methods of warming up and cooling down alongside initiating the development of acquiring physical techniques and body-based knowledge required of dance professionals.
Choreo 2: Contact Practices builds on earlier choreography and technique modules and introduces contact improvisation as a movement form that challenges and develops the student’s responses to gravity, inertia and momentum, thus complimenting a technical and creative dance training by revealing new possibilities and relationships for questioning, moving and choreographing bodies in space.
The ‘Dance Studies 2’ module will explore a range of methods and practice of research.
Students will learn how to select appropriate methods and methodologies pertinent to their chosen research questions.
The module allows students to explore, apply, analyse, evaluate and create knowledge with the objective of identifying and critically evaluating research.
This module aims to introduce students to principles and concepts of fitness training alongside the development of their dance technique training.
The content develops further upon the function of the major physiological systems addressed in the level 4 Dance Anatomy module.
Students will embark on their own research projects that focus on safe and effective practice in dance technique as well as the needs of the training dancer.
You will be exploring Dance Technique in combination with the theory and practices of Somatics.
Whether this is through dynamic contemporary techniques or other styles like jazz or commercial you will  build on your awareness of the body and how we as intelligent movers work.
We will take the anatomical knowledge that you have learnt in Year 1 and deepen that understanding into movement.
The purpose of introducing somatics is to help you become more mindful of your body, uncover thought processes and reflective practices that can liberate your potential as a dancer, and enable you to become more conscious of your movement patterns, choices, and dynamic range.
This module builds on the knowledge gained in Choreo 2 and aims to prepare students for developing and realising a choreographic project tailored to their own interests and specialisms.
Students will explore choreographic techniques in dance and physical theatre, and create two projects over the course of the year.
Students will be guided through pre-production processes, including the design and delivery of an audition, as well as considerations of production design.
The final projects will be performed across studio and theatre settings, and students will be invited to submit an application to perform their work as part of the public showcases in January and May.
This module allows students to directly apply the skills acquired in technique, choreography and teaching.
Students will form their own dance company and work with an artist to create a full length work.
The company will embark on a small scale tour to perform their work and deliver educational workshops to schools/ colleges based on the repertoire.
Students will be responsible for the organisation and management of the tour, adopting appropriate roles as part of the company.
In ‘Dance Technique and Performance’ students have the opportunity to develop and explore a working practice of the technical skills and knowledge required to further an advanced understanding of dance technique.
The module supports students to develop their unique potential as a mover and practitioner.
Technique and Performance aims to demonstrate an understanding of artistic communication through acquisition and mastery of technical dance and presentation skills.
The module aims to reveal a student’s individuality and creativity in technical performance, displaying personalised style, technical proficiency in placement, strength and flexibility, and centring.
Students will also have the opportunity to develop their own technique teaching skills and develop an understanding of how to plan and deliver a dance technique class.
The course has been designed to assess students in a variety of ways designed to prepare them with the skills needed to enter the industry.
Assessment methods may vary and include: practical performances, technique assessments, presentations,  and written work that takes the form of portfolios, analytical essays, case studies and reflective reports.
Feedback will be both formative (ongoing feedback during sessions) and summative (through written feedback following specific assessment points).
The course has been designed to assess you in a variety of ways aimed to prepare you with the skills needed to enter the industry.
Assessment methods may vary and include: practical performances, technique assessments, presentations,  and written work that takes the form of portfolios, analytical essays, case studies, and reflective reports.
Regular opportunities to perform are available through our extracurricular performance company The Lincoln Dance Collective and our third-year performance company.
Students are offered the option to study for the International Dance Teachers' Association (IDTA) Level 4 Diploma in Dance Teaching.
Training sessions are extracurricular and usually take place in the evenings or at weekends.
Fees apply.
There are opportunities to work with guest lecturers and choreographers to create professional performance work.
We host two public showcases a year, giving you the opportunity to invite family and friends to watch your work.
Students can work and perform in the University’s on-campus Lincoln Arts Centre, a £6 million, 450-seat professional theatre with industry-standard studio spaces.
The Centre, part of a busy arts community, hosts professional performances alongside student productions.
During my time at Lincoln, I have had the opportunity to develop myself as a dancer, performer, and choreographer.
What first attracted me to Dance at Lincoln was the variety of modules that were on offer, and I felt these would enable me to grow in all areas of my dance practice.
Charlotte Bennett
BA (Hons) Dance graduate
Dance graduates are well-placed for a wide variety of careers, including performance, choreography, community arts leadership, education, fitness and wellness, and arts management.
Once we have received your application via UCAS, you will be invited to a face-to-face audition date.
The audition will include a Dance Technique and Creative workshop.
There will be group interviews to give us a chance to get to know you and for you to ask any questions you may have.
There will be opportunities to meet current staff and students, as well as see more of the campus and facilities.
Clothing for class = estimated £40 per year
Costumes for performances = estimated £20 for performance costumes
Kneepads= £10
The Lincoln Dance Collective and our third-year performance company both undertake an annual national tour.
Please note that additional costs may apply.
There is currently a £150 cost to attend the Edinburgh Festival Fringe with The Lincoln Company.
Students are responsible for their travel and general living costs.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/raddgcub:
This course is currently closed for Clearing 2025.
B821
Diagnostic Radiography is the practice of using various forms of radiation to produce high-quality images which aid in the diagnosis and treatment of injury or disease.
This course aims to ensure that upon completion graduates are eligible to apply for registration as a Diagnostic Radiographer with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC), are well positioned to gain employment in a professional role, and are able to register as a full member of the Society of Radiographers.
The course is designed to develop skills specific to diagnostic radiography as well as wider transferable healthcare and employability skills.
Students can apply theoretical knowledge to clinical practice, while undertaking a variety of modules alongside practice placement experience.
During the programme, students can learn from their peer group, students from other health professions at the University, interprofessional learning events, academic lecturers, clinical expert health professionals, and service users.
Register with the HCPC to practice upon completion
Integration of theory with practice through a blended learning approach
Experience a wide range of imaging equipment, clinical settings, and patient
Learn from qualified diagnostic radiographers throughout the course
Final-year optional placements, including study abroad opportunities
Virtual Reality teaching suite
This programme has been designed so that there is a clear integration of theory and practice, made possible by the continuity of teaching alongside placement learning throughout the year.
This enables students to practice the techniques and apply the knowledge they develop from lectures, seminars, and group work to the practice of diagnostic radiography.
You will be based at one of our partner radiology practice placement providers for the duration of the programme, as well as having opportunities to experience other clinical settings through insight visits in all three years, in addition to the option of undertaking an optional placement in the final year.
Modules are integrated and have themes that run through all three years, such as professional practice, radiographic clinical practice, science and instrumentation, and research in health care.
The knowledge and skills taught within the module reflect those required of a diagnostic radiographer, and of the wider requirements of a health care professional.
Topics include anatomy, physiology, and pathophysiology with application to medical imaging; normal and abnormal image interpretation in a range of imaging modalities; scientific principles of ionising radiation, including effects on the human body and safety to minimise risk, image formation and production; scientific principles and instrumentation of a range of imaging modalities; radiographic techniques to undertake examinations in a range of imaging modalities and clinical environments; professionalism and collaborative team working in the multi-disciplinary setting; leadership and followership required to ensure a safe and quality service; evaluating, understanding, and generating evidence for primary research and service transformation; and health promotion and protection.
The aim of this module is to introduce you to anatomical and medical terminology, and cell and tissue structure and function, in health and in disease.
You will study normal and abnormal anatomy and physiology of the human body, including body systems, that will be applied to their level of radiographic practice.
This module relates to professional practice that is informed by values and ethics.
This module will encourage you to promote social inclusion, value diversity, and promote ethical healthcare practice.
You will explore different perspectives and how their own personal and professional values impact on their practice.
This module will require you to demonstrate knowledge, understanding, and application of theory and professional skills within the healthcare setting.
The aim of this module is to provide the scientific foundations that underpin radiography to assist you to develop safe and competent radiographic practice.
In order to meet this aim, as a student diagnostic radiographer, you will study general radiography equipment and safe operation, including hardware and software, and image production.
The aim of this module to develop you as medical imaging health professionals, with skills and competence in general radiographic practice.
You will focus on standard examinations of the chest, upper limb, and lower limb, pelvis, thorax, and spine for non-complicated patient presentation.
Through practice placements the students will be able to observe, participate and assist in the provision of evidence-based patient/service user centred care.
This module provides the underpinning for developing research skills required to undertake research or service transformation projects.
The module focuses on literature searching and what makes good evidence to support sustainable arguements
The module content will indicatively include: 
•	CT
•	MRI
•	Ultrasound
•	RNI and functional imaging (inc.
PET-CT)
•	Mammography
•	DEXA
•	Interventional radiography-angiography
•	Contrast media
•	Imaging pathways
•	Pathophysiology
•	The role of artificial intelligence in medical imaging
This module will provide the opportunity to explore your wider role as a radiographer that impacts on the health and wellbeing of individuals from diverse populations and cultures.
The aim of this module is to develop you as a medical imaging health professional, with skills and competence in skull, facial and dental radiography, radiography in theatre, fluoroscopy, and general CT radiographic practice.
The aim of this module is to broaden your knowledge of the scientific principles that underpin a range of medical imaging equipment such as fluoroscopy, MRI, CT, ultrasound, and mammography.
This knowledge will enable you to practice safely and produce optimal images.
You will also be encouraged to participate in quality assurance activities.
This module will provide you with an introduction to research design and methods, and service improvement frameworks.
The module enables students to consider important factors when appraising literature, planning a project, and developing a project proposal.
This module aims to develop you as diagnostic radiographers, building on your knowledge and understanding to support the continued development of your professional skills and competence so that you can meet the first post competencies for a diagnostic radiographer as detailed in the HCPC Standards of Proficiency.
The module will develop your theoretical understanding in order for you to safely and competently undertake a range of imaging examinations in a variety of clinical settings.
You will explore new imaging technologies and the developing role of the diagnostic radiographer.
This module explores leadership and management in healthcare, alongside practical skills for facilitating practice learning in preparation for you becoming a practice supervisor and mentor in the their graduate practice.
You can develop their understanding of management and leadership theory, and how professional and personal behaviours can impact on organisational culture, service delivery, and clinical practice.
You will also be able to develop the skills to be an effective team member, motivating and supporting colleagues.
This module aims to develop the knowledge and skills that will support your transitions from student radiographers to graduate practitioners.
You can explore the role of human resources, personal and job specifications, personal statement writing, and interview technique.
The aim of the module is to enable you to undertake an independent project, demonstrating a critical understanding and application of research methods within a research or service improvement project relating to medical imaging, and to disseminate these findings through professional modes of communication.
Students will be assessed using formative and summative assignment tasks.
Computer-based assessments are used across a range of modules, allowing the assessment of a breadth of knowledge.
Written assignments and case studies are used to assess the depth of learning and application of new knowledge to practice.
An electronic poster assessment in the second year provides you with the opportunity for the development of skills in a different mode of professional communication.
In addition, a project presentation undertaken in the final year aims to further enhances the range of different modes of professional communication, developing your wider employability skills.
The medical imaging practice modules will assess your practical and professional competence in the clinical department, evidenced in an electronic portfolio, as well as a viva assessment at the end of the year that will assess your knowledge across the spectrum of diagnostic radiography practice.
Throughout the programme, students can hear from guest speakers including Radiologists, Consultant Radiographers, advanced practitioners, service users and carers, and representatives from the Society of Radiographers.
Students will be assigned to a specific placement provider for the duration of the course to promote a sense of belonging to the training department and to foster strong affiliations.
The placement site could be located in North Lincolnshire, Central Lincolnshire, or South Lincolnshire, and you will be required to travel to your placement site.
Students will be allocated to a hub department for their placements with opportunity to spend time across other sites to ensure that all aspects of Diagnostic Radiography are experienced during their studies .
The final year of the programme enables you to undertake an optional placement, which could be an international placement.
Please note that while undertaking placements, students are responsible for their own travel, accommodation, and general living costs.
The University has invested heavily in specialist technology-enhanced simulation to support clinical learning as well as developing robust clinical links to secure training lists at one of the local Community Diagnostic Centres.
Employability is a key consideration of the course.
We therefore focus on workplace learning, service user interactions both in practice and in the University, and interprofessional learning events, which provide valuable and challenging learning opportunities to enhance employability.
A graduate Diagnostic Radiographer is required to have a range of skills above and beyond safe imaging practice such as leadership and mentorship.
You will be required to have a greater understanding of progression opportunities into different imaging modalities, advanced, and consultant practice.
Employability skills are embedded into the course facilitating exploration of career pathways within diagnostic radiography, as well as the wider healthcare sector such as management, education, and research.
Simulated placement weeks will enable you to experience a variety of career options and develop wider skills in addition to radiographic practice.
The Together Group at Lincoln is made up of real health and social care service users who volunteer their time and lived experiences to help inform the teaching and curriculum of the health sciences at the University of Lincoln.
128 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications to include 40 points in Biology, Chemistry, Physics, or Life Sciences.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Distinction, Merit in Applied Science.
T Level: Merit in Health, Science, and Health and Science accepted.
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 128 UCAS Tariff points, including 40 points from 15 credits in a science related subject.
(Biology, Human Biology, Chemistry, Sport Science, Psychology are accepted).
International Baccalaureate: 32 points overall including Higher Level 5 in a science related subject ((Biology, Human Biology, Chemistry, Sport Science, Psychology are accepted).
GCSE's: Minimum of three GCSEs at grade 4 or above including English, Maths and Science, or equivalent qualifications, such as Functional Skills Level 2.
We may consider work experience alongside academic qualifications and will review this on and individual basis
Certificates of all previous qualifications will need to be provided before any offers are confirmed.
_________________________________________
Additional requirements:
- This course is not open for overseas applicants.
- In order to be eligible to apply, applicants born outside of the UK must have settled residential status.
- If you are now settled in the UK, and do not have GCSE English, you will require English Language IELTS 7.0 with no less than 6.5 in each element: http://www.lincoln.ac.uk/englishrequirements - Successful performance at an interview.
- Knowledge of contemporary health and social care issues, and the nature of nursing in a public health context.
- Understanding of written material and can communicate clearly and accurately in written and spoken English.
- Satisfactory completion of Occupational Health Check.
- Satisfactory completion of an Enhanced Disclosure from the Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS).
- Experience of interacting with the public not necessarily in a care setting.
This can be achieved as part of a programme of study, voluntary or paid work.
Please include in the personal statement a reflection of your learning from these experiences and apply them to the skills required of a diagnostic radiographer.
When you choose Diagnostic Radiography in your UCAS application, you will be asked an additional question regarding criminal convictions.
Here you must declare all spent and unspent criminal convictions including (but not limited to) cautions, reprimands, final warnings, bind over orders or similar and details of any minor offences, fixed penalty notices, penalty notices for disorder, ASBOs or VOOs.
We do not accept deferred applications for Diagnostic Radiography, Nursing, Midwifery, Paramedic Science, or Social Work.
You must apply in the year you wish to start the programme.
______________________________________
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the requirements, please visit our country pages for information on equivalent qualifications.
120 to 128 UCAS Tariff points.
This must be achieved from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications to include 40 points from a Biology, Chemistry, Physics or Life and Sciences.
BTEC Extended Diploma in Applied Science: Distinction, Distinction, Merit.
BTEC Extended Diploma in Health and Social Care or Sport also accepted dependent on relevant science units studied.
T Levels in Health, Science, and Science and Health accepted: Merit.
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 120 to 128 UCAS points to be achieved from 45 Level 3 credits, including 40 points from 15 credits in a science related subject.
(Biology, Chemistry, Physics or Life and Sciences)
International Baccalaureate: 30 points overall to include a Higher Level 5 in a science related subject.
(Biology, Chemistry, Physics or Life and Sciences).
GCSE's:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above including English, Maths and Science, or equivalent qualifications, such as Functional Skills Level 2.
In exceptional circumstances we may consider work experience alongside academic qualifications and will review this on an individual basis.
-  This course is not open for overseas applicants.
- Successful performance at an interview.
When you choose Nursing in your UCAS application, you will be asked an additional question regarding criminal convictions.
We are not accepting deferred applications for Nursing, Midwifery, Paramedic Science, Diagnostic Radiography or Social Work.
- If you are now settled in the UK, and do not have GCSE English, you will require English Language IELTS 7.0 with no less than 6.5 in each element: http://www.lincoln.ac.uk/englishrequirements
https://www.lincoln.ac....irementsandyourcountry/
https://www.lincoln.ac....shlanguagerequirements/
If your application is unsuccessful, you may be offered the option of changing your application to either the BSc in Nursing (Adult) or BSc in Nursing (Mental Health).
Any offers made would be subject to a successful interview (where an interview has not already taken place), spaces available, and meeting the course entry requirements.
From September 2023, pre-registration undergraduate and postgraduate healthcare students can apply for the NHS Learning Support Fund (LSF).
If eligible, you will receive: - A training grant of £5,000 GBP per academic year.
- Increased parental support of £2,000 GBP, if you have at least one dependent child under 15 years, or under 17 years if registered with special educational needs.
- Increased money back for excess travel and temporary accommodation costs (Travel and Dual Accommodation Expenses) while you're on your practice placement.
- Students experiencing financial hardship (Exceptional Support Fund).
For more information and to see your eligibility, visit: https://www.nhsbsa.nhs.uk/nhs-learning-support-fund-lsf
Please note, this government bursary is available to Home students only.
Details on scholarships and bursaries available to Overseas and EU students can be found online: https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/scholarshipsandbursaries/
Please note that International students will not be eligible for support for travel and accommodation.
Diagnostic Radiography is also identified as a specialist subject, which means you are eligible to apply for an additional payment each academic year.
You need to apply for the Training Grant (and Specialist Subject Payment) each academic year.
You are not required to re-pay this grant on completion of the programme.
Students are responsible for their own travel, accommodation, and general living costs relating to placements.
Placement expenses for travel, and accommodation may be reimbursed by NHS Bursaries where, for example, the requirement exceeds that of attending university; requires transport out of normal operating hours; or requires additional accommodation to that of the usual term time location.
These expenses may need to be covered initially by the student before any applicable reimbursement is received.
The current rates for reimbursement can be found here: https://www.nhsbsa.nhs.uk/nhs-learning-support-fund-lsf/travel-and-dual-accommodation-expenses

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/enldraub:
QW34
Combine your passion for theatre, performance, and literature with the BA (Hons) Drama and English degree at the University of Lincoln.
This interdisciplinary joint honours programme allows students to engage with the vast majority of modules available on both the Drama and English degrees and offers full access to the range of unique opportunities developed by both programmes.
Led by experts in English literature, theatre, and performance research, as well as professional performers, theatre makers, and industry specialists with national and international connections, this course will help prepare you for a wide selection of careers.
The English element of the course considers literature from a variety of theoretical, historical, and cultural perspectives, while the theatre and performance components allow students to encounter creative practice, technical theatre, and performance skills together with a critical study of drama and theatre.
Through a mixture of core and optional modules, both practical and theoretical, you'll be able to curate your own journey through the programme.
While the English side of the course covers poetry, fiction, and drama, as well as less traditional literary forms such as life-writing and graphic novels, in drama students can choose to focus on script work, play analysis, live performance, technical theatre, devised work, and more.
As part of your studies you may also choose to study abroad through one of our many international schemes, or take up a placement in a professional setting, working alongside a theatre company, arts organisation, school, or other education setting.
The course also provides opportunities for you to perform, create, and participate in a variety of performances, trips, and events with a range of partners including interdisciplinary students, professional artists and performers, and external organisations.
Recently we've worked with organisations including the BBC, National Youth Theatre, Nottingham Playhouse, and the Royal Air Force.
This interdisciplinary joint honours programme allows you to engage with modules from both the Drama and English degrees and offers full access to the range of unique opportunities developed by both programmes.
Subject area ranked top 20 overall in the UK*
Readings and masterclasses by visiting authors
Exchange opportunities in Canada and North America
Credits which can be used against ticketed performances at the Lincoln Arts C
*Guardian University Guide 2024 (out of 84 ranking institutions).
Teaching practice on the Joint Honours degree is diverse and takes place mainly through lectures, seminars, studio-based workshops, and individual tutorials.
During the first year, on the English side of their course students are introduced to literary forms and theories, and texts and authors spanning almost a millennium, from the Gawain poet to Kazuo Ishiguro.
In drama, students take core modules designed to embed crucial skills, including ensemble and devising work, as well as play analysis and script performance.
In their second and third years, students are able to tailor their degree to match their own individual interests and aptitudes.
They can choose from a wide range of optional modules and complete an independent study/dissertation in either subject on a topic of their choice.
At points you may also choose a suite of modules offered from different courses in Lincoln School of Creative Arts, offering the advantage of working with peers in other disciplines such as fine art, dance, and musical theatre, championing interdisciplinarity and cross-discipline thinking.
Employability lies at the heart of the what we offer, with a suite of optional modules that may suit those  that wish to enter teaching, arts administration, portfolio creative careers, performing, and much more.
Drama modules will give students an insight into the professional side of the cultural sector, and project-based and performance assessments will equip students with a host of transferable skills, from problem-solving, project management, and marketing and advertising, to enable you to become self-directed, resourceful and creative.
At level three you may choose to undertake an individual research project are designed to develop critical thinking skills, as well as contributing to the drama degree showcase final year module.
During the first year, on the English side of their course you are introduced to literary forms and theories, and texts and authors spanning almost a millennium, from the Gawain poet to Kazuo Ishiguro.
In drama, you can take core modules designed to embed crucial skills, including ensemble and devising work, as well as play analysis and script performance.
In your second and third years, you are able to shape your degree to match your own individual interests and aptitudes.
There is a wide range of optional modules to choose from as well as the opportunity to complete an independent study/dissertation on a topic of your choice.
Employability lies at the heart of what we offer, with a suite of optional modules that may suit those that wish to enter teaching, arts administration, portfolio creative careers, performing, and much more.
Drama modules can give students an insight into the professional side of the cultural sector, and project-based and performance assessments aim to equip you with a host of transferable skills, from problem-solving to project management, to enable you to become self-directed, resourceful, and creative.
This practice-based module introduces the foundational elements of performance technique and performance making.
Students undergo technical training in ensemble and spatial awareness, physical skills and movement for theatre, the operation of the voice, writing for performance, and the fundamentals of  lighting and sound design.
Alongside technique sessions, they take part in devising  workshops 
 where they investigate the theories and methodologies that underpin performance making.
As the semester progresses, students form groups and create performances informed by the techniques and theories they have been exploring.
At the end of the module, they are assessed through a presentation of work - an Annotated Performance -  which will demonstrate an applied understanding of technique and the ability to engage in meaningful critical analysis of their work.
This highly creative and inspiring module is the practical culmination of our students' first year, in which the artistic skills and performance techniques learned in Devising & Making (in semester A) are implemented in a larger group ensemble context.
Students collaborate to devise, produce and perform an original piece of contemporary theatre based on the ensemble's collective exploration of a particular theme or concept under the supervision of a specialist staff member.
The performance is then scheduled as part of Lincoln Arts Centre's public programme and showcased on the main auditorium stage.
Texts in Time: Medieval to Romantic introduces students to a variety of materials from a range of cultural and historical contexts from the 12th century to 1830, and to methods of reading historically.
Students will thus build a foundation on writers and historical periods which they can choose to pursue in greater detail at levels 2 and 3.
Students will examine literature in English in a range of forms, such as poetry, drama, fiction, and essays, and the conditions under which these materials were created.
There will be a particular emphasis throughout the module on questions concerning the self in society and the cultural tensions that arise when different understandings or definitions of identity clash.
The chosen texts will demonstrate and explore understandings of the self in relation to matters such as sex, gender, race, nationality, class, religion, and age.
‘Texts in Time: Victorian to Contemporary’ introduces students to a variety of materials from a range of cultural and historical contexts from 1830 to the present, and to methods of reading historically.
Fragmentation, uncertainty and conflict characterise a world in aftermath of war, at end of empire, and at the beginning of a period of radical social and cultural change.
This module aims to chart the emergence of the contemporary world from these fractured beginnings through an introduction to British literature of the period 1950–2000.
From the post-war Windrush migration to the rise of the historical novel at the turn of the millennium, the Angry Young Men to new feminist perspectives and postcolonialism, this module explores relevant theoretical perspectives on the late 20th Century and encourages an appreciation of the relationship between texts and their social, political and cultural contexts.
This module considers the range of theories that we can use when we read and think about literature.
Students will have the opportunity to study psychoanalysis, feminism, Marxism and postmodernism, among others, to think about why and how we structure meaning and interpretation in certain ways.
We consider questions such as ‘what is an author?’, ‘what is gender?’ and ‘why do certain things frighten us?’ through theorists such as Roland Barthes, Judith Butler and Sigmund Freud.
This is a screen acting and directing practically-based module that unites Drama and Film Production students in a shared workshop environment.
Drama students can explore the fundamental approaches and practicalities involved in acting for camera, working with students from Film Production toward the creation of a filmed scene.
For all students, the module allows for advanced practice-based understanding of script analysis, film acting, and directing in a studio environment, while developing planning, pre-production, and on-set methodologies for final filmed sequences.
In this module Drama students can learn the skills, approaches, and techniques necessary in acting for camera, take and apply the direction they receive, and have their work appear in a final edited scene.
This module explores the nineteenth-century literature of the USA, chiefly focusing on fiction and poetry.
Authors covered include Herman Melville, Emily Dickinson, Charlotte Perkins Gilman, Walt Whitman and Willa Cather, among others.
This module covers a broad range of twentieth-century American fiction and poetry.
Beginning with Fitzgerald, other authors studied include Ernest Hemingway, Jack Kerouac, Toni Morrison, Thomas Pynchon and David Foster Wallace.
This module examines key British medieval texts, primarily in Middle English, from the High and Late Middle Ages (that is, from approximately the twelfth century to fifteenth century).
It explores the breadth of literary activity in the period through a variety of genres--such as debate poetry, ethnographies, beast fables, romance, dream visions, satire, devotional and mystical writings, and mystery plays--and the evolution of a new form of English (the precursor of modern English), revealing that the medieval period is, in truth, a far cry from the misnomer by which it is often identified, the ‘dark ages’.
This module examines one of the most varied literary genres extant, one that, at times, is often relegated to the margins because of its slippery nature.
Students will examine early examples of fantasy and trace the genre’s development across a number of key historical epochs, from the classical and medieval periods to the twenty-first century.
They will consider especially Tolkien as a pivotal force in the growth of fantasy literature and theory, as well as The Inklings, a group whose works had a profound influence on the evolution of the genre in the twentieth century.
A range of subgenres of the fantastic will be explored, which may include high and low fantasy, ironic fantasy, historical fantasy, or magic realism, and, alongside primary texts, they will read selections from modern theoretical and critical texts that articulate different interpretations and approaches to the fantastic.
This module examines some of the preoccupations of the fin de siècle through a series of texts and authors who helped to shape the cultural climate of the 1880s-1900s.
These decades gave rise to a pervasive feeling of vital urgency and exhilaration in Britain, as well as a conflicted sense that society was teetering on a cliff edge of irredeemable degeneration.
Texts will be read alongside and in light of social and political developments, such as anxieties about Britain’s empire and position on the global stage, evolution and degeneration, sexual identity, women’s rights, the rise of occultism and spiritualism, Decadence, and radical politics.
The study of fin de siècle writing will be set against the backdrop of the infamous Oscar Wilde trial, and the sensationalised Jack the Ripper murders, contemporary anxieties about criminality, the empire, and eugenics.
This module enables you to explore how works examine, contest, and imagine multiple forms of living ‘otherwise’ in a globally interconnected, but unequal, world through reading a variety of 20th and 21st Century Anglophone Literature.
You can engage in lively, interlinked thematic debates, that might include Indigeneity and settler colonialism; nationhood and anticolonial resistance; diaspora; globalization and neocolonialism; world literatures and the neoliberal world-system; cosmopolitanism; the trans-Indigenous; environment and climate; and speculative futures.
Primary works could include African, Caribbean, Indigenous, Irish, South Asian, MENA, Pacific Rim, and diasporic literary and cinematographic texts such as film and television.
Students will study English literature of the Romantic period (1780-1830), including poetry, fiction, autobiography, and political polemic.
The module will address revolutions in politics and literary form and ideas of nature, the sublime, sensibility and feeling, abolition and slavery, Enlightenment feminism, the Gothic, Orientalism, and childhood.
Students will have the opportunity to study works by writers including William Wordsworth, William Blake, Mary Shelley, Jane Austen, and Olaudah Equiano, placing them in their cultural context.
This practically-based module engages with selected plays of the Early Modern period and uses them as texts for performance on the contemporary stage.
Working both as dramaturgs and performers, students can form a production ensemble and stage an Early Modern classic presented on the main auditorium of the Lincoln Arts Centre.
Students may connect their interpretation and re-interpretation the text and its performance history with their own ideas and experiences to situate the Early Modern text within our contemporary cultural moment.
Recently staged performances on this module include versions of John Webster’s The Duchess of Malfi, Christopher Marlowe’s Dr Faustus; and Shakespeare's Hamlet, A Midsummer Night's Dream, and Romeo and Juliet.
This module provides an opportunity for students on the joint English and Drama BA to spend a semester at second level studying at one of the University’s partner institutions, developing academically and personally.
During the semester abroad students undertake a course load at the partner institution of equivalent standard to that of one semester of the programme at Lincoln.
Participation in study abroad also offers unique opportunities for personal student development in the widest sense, taking in cultural, sporting and social opportunities.
In order to participate, students are usually expected to obtain a 2:1 or higher at Level 1, have a good record of attendance and participation, and must complete an application process.
A limited number of places will be available each year, and participation is at the discretion of the Module Co-ordinator and the Programme Leader.
This module introduces you to adapting texts from one medium (e.g.
novel, film, poem, image) to the medium of the theatre.
Through seminar discussions and readings (play texts and scholarship), you will explore the aesthetic, political, and cultural implications involved in the adaptation process.
Adopting a practical approach as a lens to engage with these ideas, you will also work in groups to develop an adaptation project for a short theatrical performance.
This module explores the practices, politics, cultural legacy and impact of the European Avant-garde circa 1880-1930 and turns to more recent developments in the course of the module.
Students may study the theories, manifestoes, interventions and artworks from key movements including: Symbolism, Futurism, German Expressionism, DaDa, Surrealism, and Absurdism, before considering contemporary expressions of avant-garde practice such as the 1960s Happenings, and the Fluxus Group.
The module asks: What can the theatre – and other practices of these avant-garde movements and landmark practitioners – teach us in our approach to making theatre today?
Where can vestiges of avant-gardism be seen in diverse contemporary performances and artworks?
And how do avant-garde artists attempt to create radical fusions of art, life and politics?
The answers to these questions form the foundation for the small group performances you will make that have been an influential springboard for the L3 Degree Show projects.
This module teaches students how to act in the styles of naturalism and realism.
It aims to refine performance technique, and instil solid, manageable principles about the craft of acting.
Seen from the actor/character point of view, it is about playing actions and pursuing objectives.
The module examines various strategies and approaches principally derived from the work of Stanislavski and Laban.
Using these practitioners, as well as studying the postmodern characterisation of Churchill and Crimp, the first two thirds of the module (8 weeks) concentrate on introducing acting and scene study techniques.
In the final four weeks of teaching, workshops will become weekly work-in-progress sessions where students will showcase their scenes and critique the work of their peers in a ‘masterclass’/ rehearsal format.
The module concludes with a public performance of the scene plus a post-show viva.
There is also a directing dimension to the module, as scenes have to be interpreted and staged; scene and play analysis is also fundamental to the work of the director.
No actor (or director) can begin to act (or direct) successfully without knowing how best to mine the text, wherein most clues are to be found about how to perform the scene, the character and the play.
A mix of theory and practical work, this module explores a wide range of popular performance forms and their continued cultural impact on both society and contemporary performance practice.
The explorations include - but are not limited to - traditional and contemporary cabaret forms, music hall and vaudeville, parody songs, satirical news and sketches, drag acts, queer performances, slam poetry, and more.
In seminars, students interrogate and critically reflect on the historical and socio-political contexts that have influenced popular performance from the 18th century to the present day.
Alongside this, students also engage in weekly practical workshops where they experiment with various modes of performance and deploy their creativity and imagination to generate original material for the final presentation of work.
The module culminates with a public cabaret show devised and performed by the students.
This module offers an opportunity to engage with American literature (in a variety of forms) and some of its socio-historical, political and ideological contexts from the late 1990s to the present day.
We will explore aspects of canon-formation in American fiction, and study a selection of texts by both new and established writers, in some cases at the point where they are first published in paperback.
We will take a thematic approach, locating American cultural production in regional, national and global contexts, with a particular emphasis on writing in the 21st century.
There are no pre-requisites for this module.
This module offers invaluable insight into the skills and techniques required to direct theatre, and offers opportunities to put this specialised knowledge into practice in relation to a variety of play texts.
Students are introduced to various practical processes and methodologies, including researching a script and articulating a vision, guiding improvisations and blocking, to casting, running a rehearsal room, and developing performance material.
For assessment, students direct their peers in a scene of their choice, following a period of their own script preparation.
By studying the artistic and aesthetic concerns of the director, students will come to understand and contextualise what it means to direct theatre in the twenty-first century.
With the assistance of a supervisor, students will work in groups to propose, plan and perform an ambitious, hour-long performance as a final Showcase Project that uses the skills, techniques, knowledge and creative influences that they have accumulated over the course of their degree.
Student may propose a show of any type, from existing plays to devised work, from site-based to adaptations.
They may develop anything from intermedial work to performance-installation, physical theatre and/or live art.
All performances will have the opportunity to be shown in the Lincoln Arts Centre as part of its professional programme of staged work.
Monsters and attics, desolate landscapes, imprisonment and pursuit: the gothic genre emerged in the late eighteenth century to depict our darkest fears and desires.
Termed 'the literature of nightmare', gothic departs from a realistic mode of representation and employs a powerful means of symbolic expression.
Students are given the opportunity to investigate ways in which the genre has explored psychological and political anxieties, and themes of sexual and social transgression.
We consider literary texts from the eighteenth to the twenty-first centuries, including literature and film, and we give attention to sub-genres such as ‘female gothic’, ‘imperial gothic’ and ‘children’s gothic’.
This module explores what it meant to grow up and to grow old in the nineteenth century, through often contradictory accounts of experiencing age categories from childhood to old age.
Students will have the opportunity to examine various constructions of ageing, to reflect on age as a crucial facet of identity.
This module considers age as a lens to explore the nineteenth century as a transitional period of growth and expansion as well as decay and decline, through a range of Romantic and Victorian texts.
In this module students have the opportunity to research in depth an author or topic of their choosing.
Students are expected to commence research over the summer between Levels 2 and 3 and, on their return, have regular, one-to-one meetings with a tutor who is a research specialist in that field.
The supervisor offers advice and direction, but primarily this module encourages independent research leading to the production of a 10,000 word dissertation.
This module explores literature by nineteenth-century women writers through the Romantic and Victorian eras up to the suffrage campaigns.
We explore how women negotiated cultural ideals of femininity and the challenges of authorship to produce writings across forms including novel, short story, poetry, play, and in a range of genres such as social realism, gothic, fairy tale and life writing.
We consider how these works engage with contemporaneous social debates, especially about women’s social position.
Authors addressed include Jane Austen, Anne Bronte, Dorothy Wordsworth, Christina Rossetti, Mary Molesworth, Amy Levy and Elizabeth Robins.
These works are interpreted in relation to their cultural context and in light of recent critical debates.
This 30-credit module puts you at the heart of a professional theatre experience, providing the opportunity to rehearse and perform for public audiences.
Once you have successfully auditioned for this module, you will begin an intensive development and rehearsal process for the production, before performing a short run for Lincoln Arts Centre.
Supported by the Lincoln Arts Centre’s staff, and directed by a professional practitioner from the Drama team, the production will provide invaluable professional experience from audition to final performance.
This module provides an opportunity for students to study the works of Shakespeare in detail.
The dissemination, influence, and adaptation of Shakespeare is unrivalled, and without an understanding of the conventions that the works dissolved and those that they initiated, a full appreciation of the canon of English literature is inevitably lessened.
This modules challenges Shakespeare’s status as an icon of tradition and elitism by reading the texts in the light of recent developments in critical theory, and by locating them in the culture of their age.
Students will be invited to examine the ways in which different theoretical approaches might have a bearing upon the interpretation of Shakespeare, they will also be conversant with the religious climate of the late sixteenth and early seventeenth centuries, the conditions of performance and play-going in Shakespeare’s theatre, and the significant cultural and historical events of the period.
This module allows students to study the works of the Bard in detail, and to read them in the light of critical theory and literary history.
Shakespeare’s plays are a cornerstone of the canon of English literature, but in wider culture they are often treated as inflexible repositories of ‘truth’ and ‘human nature’.
This module will resist such approaches, and concentrate instead upon the ways in which the plays address the concerns of their day, as well as how they have been made to signify in other eras.
Students can develop an understanding of how Shakespeare’s work dealt with early modern dramatic conventions, politics, and thought; how it addressed questions of history, religion, and race; and how it shaped the culture within which it was written.
This module considers Shakespeare’s mature comedies, histories, and tragedies.
This module allows students to pursue an in-depth study of one author’s literary or dramatic works.
The author of choice varies from year to year according to academics’ current research interests, but potential authors may include writers of fiction and/or poetry such as Angela Carter, Charlotte Bronte, Iain Banks, Thomas Pynchon, M.R.James, Jane Austen and Sylvia Plath; and dramatists such as Caryl Churchill, Thomas Middleton, Aphra Behn, Ben Johnson and debbie tucker green.
Students will explore the writer’s oeuvre in terms of themes, style, and engagement with form and genre traditions, and with contemporary cultural debates.
We also address practicalities of authorship such as the role of editors, publishing/performance formats, and different readerships/audiences.
Students will also consider the writer’s legacies including the ‘afterlife’ of their works in adaptation.
As well as studying texts, students will engage with conceptual debates about the role of the author : is attention to the author’s life an outmoded and over-deterministic approach to the study of a text?
or a necessary part of contextualisation?
As we scrutinise the figure of the author in biography, literary societies, literary tourism and popular culture, we ask : what purposes does the ‘author’ as a cultural construction serve ?
and does this have anything to do with reading?
This module explores how childhood is constructed in a wide range of literary texts – texts by adults for adults, by adults for children, and by children themselves.
Underpinning the module is the notion of ‘childhood’ as a cultural construct into which writers invest various, even contradictory, meanings.
Students have the opportunity to explore texts by adults who idealise or demonise the child to suit their personal and philosophical agendas.
Students may then analyse the mixture of didactic and therapeutic agendas in enduring genres of children’s literature such as the fairytale, adventure story and cautionary tale.
Finally, we turn to children as authors in a study of juvenilia.
What part does theatre play in the lives of children today?
How do we make such theatre relevant, accessible, and alive in a world dominated by screen-based interaction?
What is the most appropriate setting and subject matter to engage children in a theatrical experience?
Students will form small groups and devise short performances designed to tour to Primary Schools in the City of Lincoln.
The tour will usually play in a different Primary School every day for one working week, with audience sizes ranging from 80 - 300 children.
The tour will replicate a professional touring model, accompanied by a dedicated Technician with a full complement of audio, visual and lighting equipment.
The audience will usually comprise of 4 - 7 year old children, their teachers and teaching or learning assistants.
Students will require DBS Checks to tour, and these will be provided by the Lincoln School of Creative Arts.
This module aims to explore new thematic trends, stylistic innovations and cultural developments in post-millennial British fiction, including a focus on globalising processes, transnational migration and digital technology.
The module also addresses the development (and rethinking of the concepts) of gender and class in literature of the period and account for the continuing importance of the literary form in an age of digital publishing.
Students undergo technical training in ensemble and spatial awareness, physical skills and movement for theatre, the operation of the voice, writing for performance, and the fundamentals of lighting and sound design.
Recently staged performances on this module include versions of John Webster’s The Duchess of Malfi, Christopher Marlowe's Dr Faustus; and Shakespeare's Hamlet, A Midsummer Night's Dream, and Romeo and Juliet.
We work alongside the Royal Literary Fund to give you one-to-one writing support from professional writers should you want it.
Whether it's structuring an essay, writing more clearly, or improving your style, Royal Literary Fund Fellows are on hand.
Assessment methods on this course may vary for each module.
For modules based in English, examples include coursework such as written assignments, reports, or dissertations; equally, there are practical assessments such as presentations, observations, and written exams.
The weighting given to each assessment method may vary across each academic year and from module to module.
For modules based in drama, students will encounter a wide variety of assessment types, including but not limited to performances, essays, individual and group presentations, annotated performances, presentation of practice, portfolio, Viva Voce, structured rehearsal/workshop, and programme notes.
As a Joint Honours student you will be able to engage with an exciting range of extracurricular opportunities and academic/industry partners, including students from across the School of Creative Arts, professional artists and performers, our host partner venue Lincoln Arts Centre.
You can also engage with esteemed external organisations such as In Good Company, the Midlands flagship project offering support and business development to artists and theatre makers.
Additionally, external to the curriculum, students can apply to join the Lincoln Company, the company-in-residence at the Lincoln Arts Centre which each year works to produce and tour high-quality, original performances to venues and festivals around the UK.
Joint honours students have the option to apply for The Lincoln Company, the School's professional company of emerging theatre, dance, and performance makers.
As the company-in-residence at Lincoln Arts Centre, each year they work to produce and tour high-quality, original performance to venues and festivals around the UK including Edinburgh Festival Fringe – the world’s largest platform for the arts.
You are able to engage with all opportunities offered by the respective degrees.
Opportunities may include industry-linked trips each academic year, one in each semester, talks from guest speakers, workshops, and masterclasses, from theatre-makers and industry professionals.
Literary study at Lincoln is enhanced by talks from visiting speakers and contemporary writers.
These have included: the previous Poet Laureate, Dame Carol Ann Duffy; the writer and cultural critic Will Self; TV presenter and naturalist Chris Packham; and Andrew Graham-Dixon, a TV presenter, art historian, and Visiting Professor at the University.
Students can work and perform in the Lincoln Arts Centre, a £6 million, 450-seat theatre on campus.
The Centre hosts a year-round programme of performances from students and national touring companies.
Facilities include industry-standard studio and rehearsal spaces.
Students on this course receive event/performance credits which can be used against ticketed performances at the Lincoln Arts Centre.
The growing reputation of the Lincoln School of Creative Arts facilitates partnerships with other international institutions.
We have established two exciting ‘study abroad’ affiliations with the University of Ottawa in Canada and at Drury University in Missouri, USA.
These partnerships enable up to eight students per year to participate in an exchange programme, where they will study for a term at one of these partner institutions.
These international exchange programmes can provide a fantastic opportunity for students to develop life skills, expand the breadth of their education, and enhance their employability upon graduation.
Exchange students applying to study outside of Europe do not pay tuition fees at their host university, but continue to pay tuition fees at their home institution.
Participants will usually be responsible for all other costs themselves including travel, accommodation, general living expenses, visas, insurance, vaccinations, and administrative fees at the host institution.
I made some incredible friends and created the most wonderful memories.
I'm now an English teacher, passing on the knowledge Lincoln helped me acquire to my students!
The University helped me to become a successful academic, and the people I met, both staff and students, shaped who I am today.
The best three years of my life!
Madelyn Essex
BA (Hons) Drama and English graduate
English staff at Lincoln are currently undertaking a diverse range of research that spans the medieval to the contemporary.
There are particular strengths in nineteenth century studies (including ageing), twenty-first century literature, gothic literature, women’s writing, gender studies and American literature.
Creative Writing staff are highly productive as authors of forms including fiction, poetry, graphic novel, and plays, and in genres including dystopian literature, fantasy, and crime fiction.
English also hosts two vibrant and productive research groups, the 21st Century Research Group and The Nineteenth-Century Research Group.
Drama and Theatre research at Lincoln emphasises the development of contemporary playwriting and theatre-making in the UK and Europe; ethnographic and applied approaches engage with intercultural performance in a number of sites around the world; and practice-based approaches develop structures of knowledge through performance practices intersecting with political, experimental, and dramaturgical themes.
Level 3 students, Sydney Vanderhoeven-Palmer from our Drama and English course and Caoimhe Shanahan-Peart from Drama and Theatre, share their experiences of studying, practice, and research, and tell us why they applied to Lincoln.
Students can develop the skills and knowledge relevant to a variety of roles within the theatre industry, including actor, director, playwright, producer, stage manager, and technician.
Graduates may pursue careers in related professions such as theatre making, directing, stage management, technical theatre, producing, marketing, and arts administration.
Graduates can also go on to careers in publishing, journalism, advertising, public relations, the civil service, and communications.
Some choose to continue their studies at postgraduate level, while others undertake qualifications in teaching.
Check out our performance for our 'Devising & Making' module from our first years.
This is just one of the exciting and diverse productions that our students create and perform.
As part of the admissions process, applicants are required to attend an interview day with tutors from the Lincoln School of Creative Arts.
The interview day consists of a short interview and taster workshops.
You will also have the opportunity to ask questions, meet staff and students, and see our facilities.
We encourage students to see as much theatre and performance as they can, and we support students with a ticket allocation at the Lincoln Arts Centre.
Each student will receive event/performance credits which can be used against ticketed performances.
For specific optional modules where a placement may be involved, students will be expected to fund travel costs to and from their individual placement, plus any accommodation, and general living costs.
Students who wish to join runs at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe are currently required to contribute £150 towards the cost of attending and are responsible for their travel and general living costs.
Accommodation costs in Edinburgh are covered by the University.
Students on this course are expected to obtain their own copies of primary texts indicated for use and discussion in seminars (where available) and will be responsible for any additional costs incurred.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/dradraub:
W400
Our Drama, Theatre and Performance degree gives you the opportunity to create, perform in, and examine a broad and inspiring range of innovative theatre and performance practices from across a variety of styles, aesthetics, and cultures.
Led by experts in theatre and performance research, professional performers, theatre makers, and industry specialists with national and international connections, this course will help prepare you for a choice of careers whether in drama/theatre, the wider arts and cultural industries, or beyond.
You can develop an understanding of theatre and performance by exploring it through a variety of current and global perspectives, including different culture, histories, politics, and aesthetics.
At the same time as studying the subject, you can learn and progressively employ a range of creative skills and performance practices, all the way from devising, dramaturgy, and ensemble work, to specialised acting technique both for stage and screen.
Whether you wish to study the discipline, create work of your own, or engage with acting skills and performance technique, you will have the opportunity to navigate your own journey through the programme, develop your own artistic practice, and choose to focus on what is of greatest interest to you.
As part of your studies, you may also choose to study abroad through one of our many international schemes, or take up a placement in a professional setting, working alongside a theatre company, arts organisation, school or other education setting.
You can develop an understanding of theatre and performance by exploring it through a variety of current and global perspectives, including different cultures, histories, politics, and aesthetics.
Throughout the course you may encounter plays and other performance texts, thinking about their journey from page-to-stage from dramaturgical/directorial perspectives, and you may also experiment with more contemporary approaches to theatre making including embodied performance responses, visual expression, and post-dramatic practices.
Subject area ranked in the top 20 in the UK*
Optional extracurricular technique classes
The BA (Hons) Drama ,Theatre and Performance degree interrogates practice and theory side by side, creating a broad, interconnected range of knowledge and experience for our students.
Students on the Drama, Theatre and Performance degree can work alongside Film Production students in a shared project where they are able to explore fundamental approaches, techniques, and practicalities involved in acting for camera.
At the same time, students with interests in aspects of the discipline such as Shakespeare, stage combat, theatre for children, scriptwriting, and popular performance are able to explore their interests in these areas and many more.
Not only will you have the ability to study modules related to drama, theatre and performance, the degree gives you the ability to select optional modules from across the Lincoln School of Creative Arts if you wish, allowing you incredible diversity in your choices, flexibility in customising your own pathway, and opening you up to new experiences and horizons.
Within the drama curriculum itself, employability lies at the heart of what we offer, with a suite of optional modules that encompass those that wish to enter teaching, arts administration, portfolio creative careers, acting, performing, directing, and much more.
Modules aim to give you an insight into the professional side of the cultural sector, and project-based and performance assessments look to equip you with a host of transferable skills, from problem-solving, project management, and marketing and advertising, to enable you to become self-directed, resourceful, and creative, increasing employability prospects and equipping you for your future career.
Teaching practice  in the School is diverse and takes place mainly through lectures, seminars, studio-based workshops, and individual tutorials.
You may also receive opportunities to engage in practical workshops and talks delivered by a variety of guests including practitioners, academics, and industry leaders.
Students may have the opportunity to participate in external visits and theatre trips, where offered.
Not only will you have the ability to study modules related to drama, theatre and performance, the degree gives you the ability to select optional modules from other courses if you wish, allowing you incredible diversity in your choices, flexibility in customising your own pathway, and opening you up to new experiences and horizons.
Within the drama curriculum itself, employability lies at the heart of what we offer, with a suite of optional modules that encompass those that wish to enter teaching, arts administration, portfolio creative careers, acting, performing, directing, producing, and much more.
What is a play and how do we read it?
In this module, we explore the tools that we can use to assist our encounter with a range of texts from significant playwrights and practitioners throughout the history of world theatre.
You will spend time in seminars and lectures considering the play-text and its various cultural contexts, as well as developing a range of academic skills to apply the critical perspectives in your play analysis.
This module offers the opportunity for students to spend the second Semester of Level 2 living and studying at one of our international partner institutions.
During the period abroad, students will share classes and modules of study with local students.
Not only will students be living and socialising in another culture - providing opportunities to study their respective countries, they will also have an opportunity to examine international theatre practice through attending performances as part of modules and participating in extra-curricular activities.
How do we make such theatre relevant, accessible and alive in a world dominated by screen-based interaction?
Students can form small groups and devise short performances designed to tour to Primary Schools in the City of Lincoln.
As this course aims to develop a wide range of practical and intellectual skills, assessment is varied and includes presentations, written projects, individual and group practical work, projects, and portfolios, in addition to academic essays.
There are no formal end-of-year examinations.
Throughout the degree, students are assessed through their production of practical and written work.
The most common form of assessment our students encounter is a practical assessment, which generally takes the form of the final performance of a collaborative piece created as a small group or large ensemble.
Participants will usually be responsible for all other costs including travel, accommodation, general living expenses, visas, insurance, vaccinations, and administrative fees at the host institution.
Hear from our BA (Hons) Drama, Theatre & Performance student, Daisy, as she shares her course highlights, providing a glimpse into the vibrant student life in Lincoln.
Pursuing the Drama, Theatre and Performance degree also provides multiple extracurricular opportunities for you to perform, create work, and engage with events with an exciting range of partners, including students from across the School of Creative Arts, professional artists and performers, our host partner venue Lincoln Arts Centre; and esteemed external organisations such as In Good Company, the Midlands flagship project offering support and business development to artists and theatre makers.
Previous organisations we have worked with also include BBC, National Youth Theatre, Nottingham Playhouse, and the Royal Air Force.
Students have the option to apply for The Lincoln Company, the School's professional company of emerging theatre, dance, and performance makers.
As the company-in-residence at Lincoln Arts Centre, they work to produce and tour high-quality, original performance to venues and festivals around the UK.
Drama at Lincoln challenged me in the best way, pushing me both as a person and a performer.
The diverse range of modules ignited my passion for the wild variety of freelance work I partake in as an actor, theatre-maker, and puppeteer.
It was hands down the best three years of my life and I wouldn’t be the person I am today without the experience.
Felicity Donnelly
BA (Hons) Drama and Theatre
Employability lies at the heart of the what we offer, with a suite of optional modules that may appeal to those who wish to enter teaching, arts administration, portfolio creative careers, acting/performing/directing, and much more.
Modules can give you an insight into the professional side of the cultural sector, and project-based and performance assessments will equip you with a host of transferable skills, such as problem-solving, project management, and marketing and advertising, to enable you to become self-directed, resourceful, and creative, increasing employability prospects and equipping you for your future career.
Graduates can develop the skills and knowledge relevant to a variety of roles within the theatre industry, including performer, director, playwright, producer, and stage manager.
There is the opportunity to progress to related professions in the wider creative industries, including publishing, marketing, events coordination, accessibility arts, and venue programming, and to work in television, film, and radio.
Some students may choose to undertake further study at postgraduate level or undertake qualifications in teaching.
Recent graduate destinations have included theatre making, directing, stage management, technical theatre, producing, arts administration, teaching, dramatherapy, and working for BBC radio and television.
For students who wish to participate in The Lincoln Company's Edinburgh Festival Fringe performances there are additional costs.
Students are currently required to contribute £150 towards the cost of attending the Edinburgh Festival Fringe and are responsible for their travel and general living costs.
An approximate break down of these costs includes £570 for travel, accommodation and a levy to participate, and an additional £200-£400 to cover the cost of meals and entertainment during the trip.
These costs are based on those incurred by individual students during the 2015 performances.
Those who choose to undertake a period of study abroad are expected to cover their own travel, accommodation, and general living costs.
There may be additional costs associated with external visits.
Check out our performance for our 'Devising & Making' module from our BA (Hons) Drama, Theatre and Performance first years.
My time at Lincoln was the most enjoyable, creative, and though-provoking time of my life.
The lecturers helped to provoke and inspire me, leading me into my current career as a Drama teacher.
I certainly made the right choice going to Lincoln - I made friends for life and learnt things I’ll never forget.
Ryan Gooderham
BA (Hons) Drama and Theatre graduate

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/eclcsvub:
C180
Conserving biodiversity and avoiding the extinction of species are huge global challenges.
It has never been more important for scientists to understand organisms and ecosystems, and how they respond to the threats they face.
Ecology and Conservation at Lincoln seeks to explore the natural world, from individuals to populations, and communities to ecosystems.
Students are able to examine how organisms interact with each other and their environment, and how these processes are affected by human activities.
This helps them to understand the planetary ecosystem and how it responds to environmental change.
​Students can learn key practical skills that professional ecologists and conservation practitioners are looking for in graduates.
The course offers a diverse programme that aims to provide a firm grounding in the principles of ecology and conservation.
It aims to enable students to specialise in the areas that interest them.
It is taught by research-active staff in both the Department of Life Sciences and Department of Geography, who specialise in a wide range of disciplines across evolution, ecology, zoology, and environmental health.
Key industry-relevant skills are taught by practitioners that have included guests from Lincolnshire Wildlife Trust and Forestry England, as well as speakers from a range of employers from across the sector.
Alongside fully-funded day trips throughout the degree to locations which have previously included Kew Gardens and the Millennium Seed Bank, this course also includes a residential field trip in the UK to study ecology in a field setting.
There is an additional optional overseas field trip in the final year where previous students have visited the Andean Cloud Forest in Ecuador, the Mankwe Wildlife Reserve in South Africa, and boreal forests in Finland.
Fully-funded residential field trip and day trips in the UK
This degree is designed to provide a broad understanding of the key aspects of ecology and conservation, and emphasises gaining practical skills in the field and laboratory.
Students have the chance to develop practical skills in species identification and environmental surveying, as well as 'soft' skills in scientific methods and communication, which can be invaluable in many workplaces, but are especially critical for ecology and conservation.
There is also an opportunity for students to gain professional experience by undertaking a placement year between the second and third year of their studies.
In the first year, students have the opportunity to develop a broad understanding of biological concepts, including ecology, animal and plant anatomy and physiology, as well as key skills in environmental monitoring.
During the second year, more specialist modules include conservation biology, evolution, and managing of ecosystems.
Students can choose from a selection of optional modules to align their studies with areas of particular interest.
There is an emphasis on independent research in the third year, and students are expected to undertake a substantial research project, as well as modules to develop critical scientific skills.
This degree combines demonstrations with hands-on work in-lab or in-field.
Students will also have the opportunity to develop their ability to communicate scientific knowledge effectively, in different contexts, different formats, and to different recipients.
The aim of this module is to teach students the fundamental theory and practical applications of Earth observation (remote sensing) and Geographic Information Systems (GIS).
Geospatial technologies (involving remote sensing and GIS) have changed the way businesses and policymakers solve problems and the way scientists understand Earth system processes and hazards.
These technologies are routinely used by people in their work and their daily life (e.g.
via Google Earth).
This module aims to introduce students to some of the important sources of geospatial data and the technologies underpinning them, and will highlight ways in which they are used both within geographical science and more widely.
In addition students can gain hands-on, skills-based experience in processing and analysing data using GIS and Remote Sensing software.
These are vital tools that will enable students to more rigorously assess the safety and health of the inhabited Earth.
Practical field skills are essential for the Ecology and Conservation degree.
This module introduces students to a range of skills including field identification, sampling of specimens, and laboratory analysis.
Teaching will cover a range of skills for environmental monitoring and ecological assessment, and introduce students to a range of species protected under UK legislation, and therefore of particular interest to conservation organisations, government departments, and professional ecologists.
The aim of this module is to introduce students to the links between ecosystems and human health.
The module focuses heavily on the role of human activities in changing ecosystems, covering aspects of human impacts on ecosystems as well as policy and regulatory actions to improve and safeguard vital ecosystems.
Impacts are assessed in terms of both human and wider environmental factors such as quality of life and access to safe and healthy resources as well as biodiversity, landscape assets and climate resilience.
Local and global case studies will be drawn to assess issues such as the sustainable design of built environments, sustainable approaches to waste management and threats linked to overconsumption of natural resources and excess pollution.
By exploring a range of relevant case studies we will question assumptions about environmental/ecosystem interactions and equip students with the necessary critical knowledge and overview for deriving real-world solutions to a representative range of current environmental problems.
This module introduces the key concepts of biogeography and planetary health.
The aim of the module is to develop students’ understanding of the impacts of climatic- and human-induced changes on the distribution and functioning of biomes and terrestrial ecosystems.
The module consists of three broad themes.
The first theme consists of an introduction to the course and examples of human and climate-induced change from a local to global context.
The second part covers the techniques that are used to monitor and quantify ecosystem health and predict changes in current ecosystem patterns.
The final theme of the module covers the implication of these changes and strategies to mitigate or cope with these changes.
This module will examine the environmental changes, particularly climate, at global, regional, and local scales of the past and present.
Students will gain an understanding of these changes and processes that have implications for past, and present climate and environments.
The first part of this module will cover climate and environmental change over the last 2.6 million years of Earth’s history (Quaternary period).
Students will gain knowledge in how natural variability can be distinguished from human activity, and the contribution of both observational analysis and modelling to understand environmental change.
The second part of this module will give students an understanding of global climatology and meteorology on contemporary (present-day) timescales.
It covers the main characteristics of, and processes behind, climate and weather from global through regional to local scales.
A field excursion, practicals and seminar sessions will provide tools and techniques to investigate climatology and Quaternary science.
The critical appraisal collected field and practical datasets will develop students’ critical thinking and analysis skills of past, and present climate and environmental change.
This module uses the concepts surrounding environmental health to introduce students to a wide range of critical environmental issues facing the world today.
Using a range of global and regional environmental problems, incorporating case studies on climate change, natural resources, land-use change and agriculture, pollution, degradation and threats to environments, ecosystems, and society.
Students will critically explore the causes, consequences, and impacts of humans on environmental health issues, as well as learn how to question assumptions about the underlying processes.
This module will focus on the processes governing coastal systems, including river mouth systems, coastal wetlands and open coasts, the ecosystem services that they deliver, and the expected changes that coastal systems are likely experience under the influence of climate change and increasing anthropogenic influences.
The theoretical background knowledge on coastal systems, their exposure to global change, as well as mitigation and adaptation strategies will be complemented by hands-on practical sessions, including the use of state-of-the-art computer models and seminar discussions on contemporary debates around coastal processes and management.
A particular emphasis of this module will be on developing an in-depth understanding of how coastal systems may help coastal communities to adapt to climate change, an approach that is widely referred to as ecosystem-based management.
This module examines a range of interdisciplinary environmental management techniques that are used to address critical environmental, human and planetary health issues.
Students will gain an understanding of the most appropriate techniques and solutions using a range of global, regional and local environmental case studies.
There is a strong emphasis on practice-based skills with guest lectures from practitioners in the field, practical and seminar classes.
An innovative assessment will give students the opportunity to be involved in actively influencing sustainable behaviour in the younger generation and giving them a chance to become the ‘teacher’.
This approach is especially useful in the third year as it exposes students to a wide range of career options in environmental science management and policy/regulation.
Examples of assessment methods that are used include coursework, such as written assignments, videos, reports, or dissertations; and written exams, such as formal examinations or in-class tests.
Students are expected to cover their own travel, accommodation, and living costs
I chose this course as it combined my two favourite subjects: Geography and Biology.
I really liked the unique blend and it enabled me to study key elements from both subjects.
Ellen Butcher
BSc (Hons) Ecology and Conservation
Career opportunities for Ecology and Conservation graduates may include teaching, environmental consultancy, applied conservation in the UK or internationally, and science journalism.
Graduates may choose to continue their studies at postgraduate level.
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications to include 40 points from Biology or Geography.
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points, including 40 points from 15 credits in Biology or Geography.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall to include a Higher Level 5 in Biology or Geography.
This must be achieved from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent Level 3 qualifications, to include 40 points from Biology or Geography.
A Level: BCD to BBC to include a Grade B in Biology or Geography
BTEC Extended Diploma in Animal Management and Applied Science depending on modules: DMM
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 96 to 112 UCAS points to be achieved from 45 Level 3 credits, including 40 points from 15 credits in Biology or Geography.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall to include a Higher Level in Biology or Geography.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/eclcsvum:
C18B
Alongside fully-funded day trips throughout the degree to locations which have previously included Kew Gardens and the Millennium Seed Bank, this course also includes a fully-funded residential field trip in the UK to study ecology in a field setting.
There is an additional optional overseas field trip in the third year where previous students have visited the Andean Cloud Forest in Ecuador, the Mankwe Wildlife Reserve in South Africa, and boreal forests in Finland.
During the second year, more specialist modules include evolution, conservation biology, and plant-animal interactions.
This four-year MBio programme includes an additional research-intensive final year and may lead to further research and employment opportunities.
112 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications to include 40 points from Biology or Geography.
T Level in Science:  Merit.
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 112 UCAS Tariff points, including 40 points from 15 credits in Biology or Geography.
International Baccalaureate: 29 points overall to include a Higher Level 5 in Biology or Geography.
A Level: BCC to BBB to include a Grade B in Biology or Geography
BTEC Extended Diploma in Animal Management and Applied Science accepted depending on modules: DDM
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 104 to 120 UCAS points to be achieved from 45 Level 3 credits, including 40 points from 15 credits in Biology or Geography.
International Baccalaureate: 20 points overall to include a Higher Level in Biology or Geography.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/ecoecoub:
L100
Employment, inflation, house prices, wealth, and poverty affect us all in different and dynamic ways, and the key to understanding why often lies in economics.
BSc (Hons) Economics aims to equip students with the tools and frameworks to analyse economic issues, as well as the skills necessary to explore and explain new trends as they emerge in the current dynamic economic environment.
Fundamental to the study of the subject is a commitment to fostering respect for good academic practice and standards.
We encourage students to develop the confidence to challenge established wisdom.
Subject area ranked in the top ten in the UK for student satisfaction*
*Out of 77 ranking institutions in the Complete University Guide 2025
Teaching on this programme reflects the research expertise of academic staff and enables students to tailor their learning in line with interests and career aspirations.
The first year of this course introduces students to core micro, macro and international economics.
There are modules in econometric analysis that aim to help students develop expertise in the statistical techniques used to analyse and interpret economic data.
Intermediate micro and macroeconomics are studied in the second year and are prerequisites for the advanced modules that are covered in year three.
A range of optional modules are also available in the second and third years.
It is impossible to read or practice modern economics without an understanding of mathematics and the mathematical methods applied in the literature.
The purpose of this module is to further develop students’ understanding of mathematical methods and to enable them to use mathematics in a series of economics applications.
The purpose of this module is to extend students’ understanding of mathematical methods in Mathematics For Economics And Finance I and to enable them to use mathematics in a series of economics applications.
The purpose of this module is to provide students with the opportunity to develop an understanding of macroeconomic theory and macroeconomic policies which are crucial for efficient functioning of an economy.
Students have the chance to examine thoroughly macroeconomic theories and policies of a market economy in both closed and open economy contexts.
In order to conceptualise at the level of the macroeconomy, this course provides students with the opportunity to develop the tools of modern macroeconomic theory in the context of the global economy and aims to explain the determination of aggregate output; of employment and prices; the tools of monetary and fiscal policy used by governments to fight inflation and unemployment and to promote growth in the economy.
The aim of this module is to provide students with an opportunity to develop a theoretical underpinning for the final level economics modules.
The module examines the theory of the consumer behaviour, the theory of the firm, and the action of firms in differing market structures.
The module ends with an analysis of general equilibrium.
The module emphasises the use of diagrams and reasoning in the analysis of microeconomic problems and solutions that affects consumers, producers and policy-makers.
This module aims to provide students with the baseline models and methods in modern macroeconomics necessary for advanced analysis.
Skills can be developed in analysing major macroeconomic theories and their policy implications.
This module aims to provide students with more analytical and critical treatment of the topics than intermediate microeconomics.
Using advanced techniques, including mathematical analysis, models are developed to explain the behaviour of individual economic agents in competitive and other types of markets.
Previous placement destinations have included Grant Thornton and Prysmian Systems and Cables.
Our BSc (Hons) Economics gives students the opportunity to develop the research, analytical, critical-thinking and problem-solving skills relevant to roles in market-focused areas such as forecasting, financial analysis, banking, insurance and accountancy.
Opportunities can exist in management, as a professional economist, in government departments or financial services.
Some students go on to postgraduate study.
The course built upon more complex ideas and introduced me to new and interesting fields within economics.
All of the lecturers really care about the course and their students.
Gareth Stevens
BSc (Hons) Economics
GCSE's:  Minimum of three to include a grade 6 in Maths, a 4 in English and one further GCSE graded at 4 or above.
Equivalent Level 2 Maths qualifications are not accepted.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/ecofinub:
L10F
Making the right decisions at the right time in finance requires foresight and understanding of the factors at work, and these skills are integral to a course that aims to develop economists with a specialism.
The Economics and Finance programmes at Lincoln aim to equip students with the skills to analyse financial and economic events and their impact on markets.
It enables students to develop an understanding of advanced financial techniques, including pricing and portfolio management.
Teaching is designed to equip students with a theoretical and practical understanding of the economy and the crucial role played by the financial sector across the world.
Students are encouraged to develop the advanced analytical skills that are valued in the business and financial industries for decision-making, portfolio planning, risk management, and working within financial markets.
The programme is available as either a three-year BSc degree or a four-year Master's programme.
Those who enrol on the MEcon, and meet the progression requirements at the end of their third year, can go on to undertake a substantive research project in an area of particular interest.
* Out of 77 ranking institutions in the Complete University Guide 2025
This course covers topics such as macro and micro-economics, financial management, and econometrics.
Teaching explores how financial management decisions can improve the performance and efficiency of organisations, and how capital markets operate theoretically and behaviourally.
Students can learn how to interpret financial information, manipulate data using statistical software packages, and analyse contemporary economics issues.
This course offers the option to take a year-long work placement after the second year of study, providing the opportunity to gain experience and apply learning in practice.
Our BSc (Hons) Economics and Finance is designed to enable students to develop into economists with a key strength in finance.
Students are able to progress into roles in the business and financial services industry, such as tax adviser, finance officer, and positions in accountancy departments.
The course has given me a good grounding in economics while providing a deep insight into the industry as a whole.
Tom Stockhill
BSc (Hons) Economics and Finance
GCSE's:   Minimum of three to include a grade 6 in Maths, a 4 in English and one further GCSE graded at 4 or above.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/edueduub:
X300
Our BA (Hons) Education degree invites students to consider education within different learning environments and review education systems across the world.
This degree looks at learning and teaching through four key areas: philosophy, sociology, history, and psychology.
The programme considers the different ways in which education is implemented and understood throughout the UK and globally.
The aim of the degree is to support our students to understand and question current and historical education systems, and to consider how these systems align with policy, practice, and social expectations.
Students will have the opportunity to consider education in compulsory schools and in other learning environments not associated with typical classrooms.
BA (Hons) Education at Lincoln aims to incorporate research-based opportunities.
Throughout their degree, students are encouraged to undertake small-scale research projects in an area of education, such as learning or teaching approaches, comparisons of global education systems, studies of curricula, or special educational needs.
Subject ranked 2nd in the UK for academic support*
Subject ranked in the top 10 in the UK for overall satisfaction*
Choose from optional modules to suit your preferences
*National Student Survey 2023 (out of 81 ranking institutions)
The first year centres on introductory core modules which focus on learning, teaching, education, and research skills.
Students can reflect on the global and local influences on policy and practice, and consider how this has shaped the ways children and young people are able to learn.
A tutorial system operates throughout the three-year course.
The first year provides opportunities for you to develop your own personal and academic skills and can provide a sound basis for transition to the second year.
The course also includes a series of scheduled meetings with a personal tutor.
In the second and third years, teaching focuses on special educational needs and diversity, research methods in education, and perspectives in education.
You are able to choose optional modules to support your own specific interests.
These currently include Studies of Childhood; Curriculum: Principles and Purposes; Psychology of Education; and Intermediate Education.
The final year involves the completion of an extended research-based project.
This, along with further elective modules, aims to provide opportunities for you to build on your own interests and may be determined by your career aspirations.
Teaching takes place in lectures, seminars and workshops, and in small groups, depending on the level and the topic of study.
In addition, staff use the intranet to provide materials to support teaching; course materials are posted to an online virtual learning environment to supplement face-to-face teaching and support onsite and remote study.
This module is designed to provide students with an introduction to education and consider the background to UK and global perspectives on current education policy and provision.
It aims to enable students to understand the relationship between education, politics and society, to understand the views of others and to establish a personal view that will inform the choices they make as global citizens.
This module is designed to introduce students to research methods including quantitative and qualitative research methods used in education research, and aims to help students to develop the understanding of what qualitative and quantitative research projects are like.
It will provide an overview of the purpose and different approaches that can be used within research in education.
This module is designed to provide students with an insight into what learning is, how this takes place and what strategies or approaches can be used to support learning.
It is anticipated that the module will draw on learning across the lifetime, e.g.
in early childhood through to adulthood.
However, it will also provide focused examples of learning in early years, primary and secondary learning environments in order to support students who are aiming for careers in teaching, other educational roles, psychology or educational research.
Students can gain a broad overview of learning theory and considerations.
This module is designed to introduce students to the theories of teaching and the role of the teacher.
It will explore theories of teaching and their consequences for lesson planning, preparation and delivery, classroom management and effective learning environments.
It will explore the role of the teacher – such as developing relationships with the students, teaching style to meet different needs and abilities, modelling good practice, being innovative, resourceful and purposeful.
It will also explore theories and principles of behaviour management, which will include assertive discipline, preventative approaches to disruption; promoting alternative thinking strategies and conflict resolution.
This module is designed to provide students with insight into the diversity that can be observed between learning, concepts of inclusion and approaches to alternative education.
The module focuses on teaching and learning in a range of educational environments and through educational research.
The module provides the opportunity for students to engage with contemporary research and ideas linked to these key concepts and to explore how policy impacts on provision for different groups of learners.
This module aims to support students to critique and synthesise their knowledge and understanding of education by comparing the approaches of philosophers, historians, sociologists and psychologists.
It introduces students to each of these academic disciplines and their contribution to our current understanding of education.
The module draws on classical texts, key academic studies and critically compares their influence on our understanding of education in the UK and internationally.
The aim of this module is to support students in preparing for their dissertation in year three.
Students have the opportunity to develop their knowledge, understanding and skills in relation to the complex nature, and processes of research in education.
Students can plan and develop a realistic project proposal which should enable them to address a research question of their choice within a specific educational context.
This module focuses on curricula for learning in education.
It considers the purpose, breadth and design of curriculum structures and models and how these can differ in relation to context and culture.
Students can gain an understanding of how the curriculum in England has changed and developed and can describe the subject specific elements within current education provision.
This module aims to help students to know, understand and contextualise the core components that make up curricula.
This module teaches students to think about education within the digital society we live in.
Key debates and issues will be engaged with and explored, and students will develop an understanding of how digital tools can be used to enhance the learning experience.
Students will consider developments in Artificial Intelligence (AI) and machine learning, for example, and the impact that quickly changing technologies have on educational institutions, their leaders, teachers, and students.
They will evaluate the use of technological solutions for diverse and inclusive classrooms and understand the implications of digital practices within the education system.
They will also be expected to communicate their learning to different audiences, using different mediums (e.g.
video).
This optional module is designed to provide students with a deepening understanding of education studies.
The module will focus on how education impacts on and is viewed by society.
It will consider how social justice, educational policy and representations of education in society can impact on knowledge, understanding and attitudes.
This module aims to prepare you for an application to either primary or secondary school teacher training, by building your understanding of the school system from statutory, curriculum, pedagogical, and wider stakeholder and agency perspectives.
By providing an understanding of the broader expectations of teaching pupils in school settings, the module also aims to support preparation for a postgraduate teaching application, interview, and further study.
This module is designed to provide students with an insight into the psychology of education and how psychology can be used to support practice in a range of learning environments.
The module provides students with an opportunity to engage with cutting edge research and how this impacts on practice.
Students can gain an insight into some of the key ideas in psychology and how these influence educational practice.
This optional module focuses on childhood by comparing the theories and perceptions of children.
It reflects on developmental aspects including social, cognitive, emotional, environmental, physical and language.
It considers the ways in which children are portrayed in the media and the impact this may have on cultural representations of children.
The module draws on classical and contemporary texts, academic studies and media such as television programmes and films.
This module is designed to introduce students to major issues shaping education today, and to the conceptual tools needed to understand these in an informed way.
Students can gain an understanding of key sites of debate in compulsory and alternative education, and critically examine a range of current debates in areas such as educational systems, policies and reform within the UK and in global context, through multidisciplinary perspectives.
This module aims to help students understand and confidently engage with the discursive, social and political contexts of education today.
The dissertation module builds on previous education research modules and facilitates independent research into an area of interest that is central to a student's programme of study.
Typically the module will involve a small-scale investigation into a topic agreed between the student and personal tutor, and with the agreement of the personal tutor, students may undertake more theoretical studies as long as they offer an original framing or interpretation of the research problem.
It is designed to develop students understanding of, and skills in applying research methods while building and synthesising knowledge gained in previous modules.
Students will be asked to complete a research proposal, and if collecting empirical data, an ethical approval form in the first term.
Using problem-based learning, this module asks students to design and develop a learning artefact based on a real-world brief.
Aiming to prepare students for the workplace, design teams will be formed and students will apply their subject knowledge to the development of their learning artefact over the course of the module.
They will be expected to work collaboratively, within teams and with their clients, responding to feedback and engaging with evidence throughout.
The presentation of final learning artefacts will demonstrate students’ awareness of the role of digital education within the modern world, and, importantly, the ethical implications of the use of digital tools in education and beyond.
This module focuses on the development of state-funded education, primarily in the UK, but with reference to systems of education in other countries.
It provides a social history of education and situates it within a broader social history of the public sector.
The module draws on archival documents, the media, public policy, academic theory and applied research, and pays particular attention to the role of educators, students and parents in shaping debates around public education.
This module is designed to introduce students to the concept of learning through reflection, where reflection is deliberate, purposeful, and structured.
Reflective skills will be linked to theory and practice and will encompass learning, change and development.
The module is designed to build on students' critical thinking and critical reflection skills through the close study of educational theory, practice and through the exploration of the educational philosophers, their relevance to modern educational thought and through the development of critical writing skills.
This optional module is designed to provide students with an insight into education from a philosophical perspective.
It considers how curricula, teaching and learning are influenced and shaped by the broader views, values and beliefs of what education is and what it is for.
Students can engage critically with the fundamental, and enduring questions about education.
This module is designed to provide students with an advanced insight into the psychology of education and how psychology can be used to support practice in a range of learning environments.
The module is particularly aimed at those considering a career in teaching and provides students with an opportunity to engage with cutting-edge research and how this impacts on practice.
Students will be able to gain an insight into the specifics of psychology and how these influence educational practice.
This optional module is designed to provide students with an insight into the different categories of needs that learners may have in the learning environment.
The module focuses on learning, teaching, education related work and educational research, and provides students with an opportunity to engage with cutting-edge research and how this impacts on practice.
Students will be able to gain an insight into some of the key ideas in the pedagogy associated with supporting children with Special Educational Needs and Disability.
This module is designed to help students ‘see education sociologically’ by exploring the relationship between education, individuals and social life, and between learning and power.
How do schools and other educational institutions influence people’s life chances?
How do the state, religion, family and economic systems shape educational values and practices?
Who decides how people should be educated, about what, and why?
How are social inequalities of class, race, dis/ability, gender and sexuality produced and challenged through educational theory, policy and practice?
What is the relationship between educational and social change?
Drawing on historical and contemporary examples in national and international perspective, this module aims to help students ‘map’ theoretical perspectives and research methods in the sociology of education and apply these in their own thinking and practice.
The aims of module assessments are to provide a measure of the development and attainment of course outcomes, including the attainment of high-level intellectual skills such as critical analysis and evaluation.
Accordingly, the methods of assessment varies across the three levels of the course, and can include essays, course work, portfolios, presentations, reports and data analyses.
Assessments at levels one and two focus on the acquisition and understanding of knowledge and skills.
In contrast, the level three assessments place far greater emphasis on the ability to apply, analyse, and evaluate knowledge.
Students will be encouraged, through the study of various modules, to consider education from a global perspective.
Whilst formal placements are not currently included in the BA (Hons) Education course, we do encourage students to consider the possibilities of taking part in the Lincoln Award: http://lincolnsu.com/lincolnaward .
The College’s Work Opportunities Hub, which looks to identify suitable placements for students, can help those seeking to enhance their studies with work experience.
You may have the opportunity to undertake self-funded study trips abroad, such as to the Czech Republic and Malaysia, to consider education systems globally.
These opportunities have been developed through partnerships with universities in Olomouc, Czech Republic and Kuala Lumpur in Malaysia.
Please note, you'll be responsible for your accommodation, travel, and general living costs.
I love studying Education at the University of Lincoln, because the modules are so interesting and engaging.
They give you plenty of insight into what you can expect in different learning environments if you decide to go into teaching.
The lecturers are always on hand to offer support where I need it.
Emma Marum
BA (Hons) Education
Applicants should demonstrate an interest in education in general.
We'd like to hear your thoughts about the education system and why you're interested in studying this subject at undergraduate level.
This course aims to incorporate research-based opportunities; and as a result,you'll be encouraged to undertake small-scale research projects in an area of education such as learning or teaching approaches, comparisons of global education systems, studies of curricula, or special educational needs.
The course has been designed to provide you with a strong base for postgraduate study and beyond.
Graduates of this course would be well-placed to move into further study in the form of a PGCE primary teacher training course.
Please note, to qualify to teach students in secondary education you would need to complete the first degree in a curriculum subject, i.e.
English, Physics, History, etc.
prior to completing the PGCE secondary qualification.
Graduates also go on to become education specialists in a number of workplaces that provide school trips for children, from museums to outdoor pursuit centres.
Others choose to travel and teach English abroad.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/edmpsyub:
X301
The BSc (Hons) Education and Psychology degree looks at the way in which children and young people develop and learn.
It uses the application of psychology to support a broader understanding of education, enabling students to gain an insight into the ways in which learning is shaped and delivered.
Students at Lincoln can gain an insight into the ways in which learning is shaped and delivered through a course which explores how psychological theory can be related to a variety of educational environments, as well as considering a range of psychological issues.
Research based learning is an important part of this course and students will be encouraged to use enquiry and investigative approaches to learn more about education and psychology throughout their three-year study.
The BSc (Hons) Psychology and Inclusive Education degree looks at the way in which children and young people develop and learn.
Review education systems from around the world
Opportunities for self-funded study abroad trips
Learning and teaching are explored through four areas: philosophy, sociology, history, and psychology - with a strong focus on how psychology can support a broad understanding of education.
Education systems in compulsory schools and other learning environments can also be examined throughout the degree.
Students can also develop and refine their research skills and can begin to tailor their course to their interests by choosing optional modules in their second and third years.
In addition, staff use the intranet to provide materials to support teaching; course materials are posted to an online virtual learning environment to supplement face to face teaching and support onsite and remote study.
This module aims to introduce students to a wide range of topics outlining the structure and functions of the brain and nervous system, and the relationship between these brain structures and the behaviours, both covert and overt, resulting from them.
The module serves as the foundation for the second year core module in cognition, and a number of elective modules expand on ideas introduced here.
This module provides an introduction to three major areas of psychological theory and research, Developmental, Social and Individual psychology.
The topics are covered in Semesters A and B respectively and grouped thematically.
Content across all topics is embedded in the context of major, relevant general, developmental, social and individual differences theories.
This module aims to provide you with foundational knowledge and skills across a range of areas, supporting your transition into higher education.
You can cover essential study skills relating to communication (verbal and written), academic reading, and personal development, as well as explore topics such as equality, diversity, and inclusion; intercultural communication, ethical scholarship, and academic integrity.
This module aims to examine the concepts, theories, research methods and influencing factors in child development relevant to the period from birth to pre-adolescence.
The module aims to provide an introduction into psychological assessments using psychometrics, including questionnaires and scales.
Based on the established theoretical and research context, this module will consider a range of assessment tools used in psychology to assess an individual’s behaviour or behavioural disposition, and provide an introduction into psychometric test development.
The modules also aims to provide students with the opportunity to administer, score, and interpret psychological tests.
This module aims to examine the developmental disability of Autism (and Autistic Spectrum Disorders).
It aims to cover a range of approaches to understanding Autism, from diagnosis and etiology.
This module aims to provide students with the opportunity to discuss concepts, theories and research methods in cross-cultural psychology, including analysis of psychological definitions of culture and cultural variables.
Specific topics in social and developmental psychology are considered from a cross-cultural perspective, for example, cultural values, social roles and relationships, family organisation, and selected topics in child development.
This module aims to emphasise the importance of a developmental framework for understanding how children come to exhibit adaptive and maladaptive behaviour.
The module will seek to address the changing nature of problems, influences and risk factors over the course of development.
This module aims to develop students' knowledge of the development, theory and applications of the Discourse approach, which is a growing field within psychology.
The module aims to introduce the Discourse perspective, in which language is seen as a means for people to do social actions: from blamings and invitations, to the establishment and maintenance of social relationships.
The module aims to introduce some of the key areas in Forensic Psychology that occur during the pre-conviction stage of a criminal investigation.
Specifically, the module will focus on the police investigation and courtroom stage of the criminal process.
It will explore a variety of established theoretical work and research within these domains and consider how this knowledge can be used to inform several key areas of the criminal investigation.
The module will highlight the applied importance of Psychology to significant issues in the real-world.
This is a module designed to help students to develop their knowledge of human interactions and responses to music.
Students will consider the ways in which we engage with, listen to, perform, and learn about music.
It will aim to provide a better understanding the role music plays in attachment, emotion regulation, social affiliation, the neurological overlap between music and language processing, and the development of humans as a species who enjoy music.
Through explaining the research underlying the Psychology of Music we also aim to provide an understanding of how this field builds on and connects with other areas in psychology.
The aim of module assessments are to provide a measure of the development and attainment of course outcomes, including the attainment of high-level intellectual skills such as critical analysis and evaluation.
Accordingly, the nature of assessment varies across the three levels of the course.
This course aims to incorporate research-based opportunities, and as a result, you'll be encouraged to undertake small-scale research projects in an area of education such as learning or teaching approaches, comparisons of global education systems, studies of curricula, or special educational needs.
Applicants should demonstrate an interest in education and psychology in general.
I loved my time on this course.
It's great how you can pick your modules to really tailor the degree to what you want to do, and it set me up so well to go on to postgraduate study.
I felt so supported by all the lecturers throughout my time on the course and made so many great friends!
I would absolutely recommend this degree to anyone interested.
Laura Neale
BSc (Hons) Education and Psychology
Graduates would be well-placed to pursue careers in education including roles in schools, colleges, and universities.
Graduates may also wish to move to further study in the form of a PGCE primary teacher training course.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit
GCSEs:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English and Maths .

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/egrelcub:
H785
Electrical engineering is essential to the modern world, encompassing everything from energy and automation through to communications and transport.
The BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering programme is designed to equip students with the skills needed by industry to deliver sustainable solutions, and to succeed as the engineers of the future.
Founded in collaboration with Siemens, the University of Lincoln's School of Engineering has a core philosophy of research-led teaching.
Our innovative industrial collaborations have led to a rich programme of work experience opportunities, including at Siemens Energy in Lincoln.
Throughout the course, there are extensive opportunities at each level of study to engage in hands-on projects and benefit from learning in an environment where our academics and researchers are at the forefront of the industry and have expertise in a variety of electrical and electronic engineering disciplines.
The curriculum supports students to bridge the gap between university and the professional world by developing skills that are essential within the industry.
Strong links exist between our Mechanical and Electrical programmes, enabling our students to develop the strong cross-disciplinary focus necessary for the modern engineer, and an understanding of industry perspectives.
Accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET)
Extensive hands-on project work
Opportunities for placements, mentoring, and recruiting
The course covers core electrical and electronic engineering subjects and provides opportunities to specialise in advanced electronics, power and energy, and control.
Teaching and learning on the programme empower problem- and project-based learning to equip students with relevant in-depth knowledge, and essential practical and transferable skills that are a core requirement of the industry.
The first and second year of the Electrical and Electronic Engineering programmes offer a foundation in engineering theory and practice.
Students can develop fundamental knowledge in areas such as robotics, semiconductor device physics, electrical technology, matter and interactions, engineering mathematics, and numerical computation.
Specialist modules in the third year include Power Electronics, Robotics and Automation, and Internet of Things and Smart Electronics.
At each stage, students have opportunities to develop their engineering skills on real-life problems through project-based learning opportunities.
The aim of this module is to provide students with a firm grounding in Classical Control methods, which will enable them to work with systems and control engineers, and prepare students on the control stream for advanced topics in the level three and four modules.
Students will be introduced to Control in relation to engineering systems, and in particular to develop methods of modelling the control of processes.
Techniques are explored with particular reference to common practical engineering problems and their solutions, and the application of SIMULINK in this process.
Students will be introduced to electrical machines and power systems and their practical applications, supported by practical analysis/synthesis methods.
This ability is fundamental for the students with mechanical engineering background, if they are to be able to handle electromechanical problems encountered in real life situations.
Students will further have the opportunity to explore a general methodology for the calculation of electromechanical energy conversion.
Students can obtain an appreciation of the features and characteristics of different types of electromechanical machines and drives and their applications.
This module aims to provide an introduction to the subject of industrial engineering.
Industrial engineering is a branch of engineering dealing with the optimisation of complex processes or systems.
It is concerned with the development, improvement, implementation and evaluation of integrated systems of people, economic resources, knowledge, information, equipment, energy, materials, analysis and synthesis, as well as the mathematical, physical and social sciences together with the principles and methods of engineering design to specify, predict, and evaluate the results to be obtained from such systems or processes.
The various topics include management science, cost and value engineering, business economics and finance, engineering management, supply chain management, operations research, health and safety engineering, operation management.
Students with an understanding of the physics underlying semiconductor devices and applications will be given the opportunity to study the processing of semiconductors to produce devices.
Students will also  establish an understanding of electrostatics, electromagnetics, and electroconductive fields and a revision of wave propagation and electromagnetic plane waves in free space and wave polarisation is covered.
Relation between component size and EM wavelength such as qualitative introduction to antennas , circuit interference effects at high frequencies as well as skin effect.
This module provides an opportunity for students to spend a term in the second year studying at one of the University’s partner institutions abroad.
Students wishing to take part in this must submit an application to the School discuss why they wish to participate in a study period abroad.
A limited number of places will be available each year, and participation is subject to the School's approval.
The module aims to enable students to gain knowledge and understanding of the principles and other key elements in communication systems and the theory involved in their design.
Students are introduced to analogue and digital communication systems, as well as to the use of information theory in the framework of communication systems and their performance.
An important aspect of this module is studying the topics of random processes and noise, sampling and quantization, and introducing students to key issues of filter design and modulation.
Laboratory work will be carried out in Matlab/Simulink or equivalent software tool.
In this module students will have the opportunity to work on the design of digital projects using Verilog for FPGA and ASIC implementation.
Hierarchy of design abstraction and the process of top down design will also be covered, in addition to advanced concepts and methods of Verilog.
Investigation of FPGA architectures issues involved in FPGA based implementations of advanced digital designs are illustrated by practical laboratories and assignments.
The aim of this module is to introduce students to modern industrial automation architectures.
The module is composed of three parts: sensors and actuators; industrial networks; and programmable logic controllers.
In the first part students will have the opportunity to learn the main technological aspects of sensors and actuators used in industrial automation.
The second part will explore how distributed architecture works, with an in-depth overview of the most common fieldbus and industrial Ethernet HW/SW protocols.
The third part will explore Programmable Logic Controllers (PLCs) focusing both on the HW/SW architecture and on the main programming languages according to the IEEE61131-3 standard.
Finally, students will also have the opportunity to gain hands-on experience by working on industrial automation test beds.
The aim of this module is to provide students with a thorough understanding of power electronics and electrical drives.
The first part of the module begins with an overview of the main concepts behind electrical power processing and control.
Power semiconductor switches are then introduced and their use as basic components in power electronics systems is deeply investigated.
Subsequently, the main power converters architectures are defined and systematically analysed.
The second part of the module aims to enable students to gain knowledge and understanding of classical electric machines and drives.
The aim of this module is to enable students gain knowledge and understanding of the principles and other key elements in robotics, its interdisciplinary nature and its role and applications in automation.
The module starts with the history and definition of robotics and its role in automation with examples.
Then a number of issues related to classifying, modelling and operating robots are studied, followed by an important aspect of the robotics interdisciplinary nature; its control and use of sensors and interpretation of sensory information, including vision systems.
Students will also be introduced to the topics of networked operation and teleoperation, as well as robot programming.
The aim of this module is to introduce students to theory and methodology of advanced techniques relevant to engineering systems, in order to design and implement filters and systems.
System identification is a general term to describe mathematical tools and algorithms that build dynamic models from measured data.
A dynamic model in this context is a mathematical description of the dynamic behaviour of a system or process in either the time or frequency domain.
Students are given the opportunity to investigate methods by which they can perform useful operations on signals in either discrete or time-varying measurement.
The first aim of this module is to identify the major components of electrical power systems together with their characteristics.
The second is to analyse the performance of power systems where these components act together.
In addition, students will examine the methods and issues surrounding transmission of electrical power, including insight and understanding of power system protection and the effects of system design on power quality.
In control engineering, a state-space representation is a mathematical model of a physical system as a set of input, output and state variables.
Students have the opportunity to explore different methods of resolving the control variables in order to analyse systems in a compact and relevant way.
Assessment methods on the Electrical and Electronic Engineering programme aims to test engineering technical and analytical skills, as well as professional soft skills including oral and written communication, team working, long-life learning, problem-solving, project management, and planning and organisation.
Examples of assessment methods that are used include time constrained assessments (TCAs), coursework, such as written assignments, reports, or dissertations; practical exams, such as presentations, performances, or observations; and written exams, such as formal examinations or in-class tests.
*Pending re-accreditation for 2025
This degree is accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET), to enable students completing the programme the eventual opportunity to register as a Chartered Engineer (CEng).
Further Master's-level accredited learning is required to complete the educational base for full CEng status.
I have been supported in developing my professional skills to be on track for becoming a Chartered Engineer, and I have made the most of what the course has to offer to help me build confidence in my own academic ability.
The academic staff are supportive and I know they want to help me achieve to the best of my ability.
Tim Gorringe
MEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering
Our academic team brings together a rich array of research experience, including staff with specialisms in diagnostics and prognostics, renewables, modelling of dynamic systems, nanomaterials, and applications of lasers.
They secure grants for major UK and European research funders and deliver research, development, and consultancy for industrial partners, as well as being part of international research collaborations.
Students have the opportunity to engage in this research through research-led teaching and project work.
The University of Lincoln’s School of Engineering has a core philosophy of research-led teaching.
The School of Engineering aims to prepare its graduates for a variety of career paths in areas such as energy, transportation, biomedical engineering, and microelectronics.
This can include working with sensor networks, automotive electronics, in the microprocessor industry, and in the aerospace and satellite sectors.
This must be achieved from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent Level 3 qualifications, to include 40 points from Maths.
A Level: BCD to BBC to include a Grade B in Maths
BTEC Extended Diploma in Engineering accepted: DMM
T Level in Engineering accepted: Merit Overall
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 96 to 112 UCAS points to be achieved from 45 Level 3 credits, including 40 points from 15 credits in Maths.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall to include a Higher Level in Maths.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/egrelcum:
H786
The MEng (Hons)  Electrical and Electronic Engineering programme is designed to equip students with the skills needed by industry to deliver sustainable solutions, and to succeed as the engineers of the future.
Throughout the course, there are extensive opportunities at each level of study to engage in hands-on projects and benefit from learning in an environment where our academics and researchers are conducting research.
The curriculum is designed to support students to bridge the gap between university and the professional world by developing skills that are essential within industry.
Teaching and learning on the programme empower problem- and project-based learning to equip students with relevant in-depth knowledge, essential practical and transferable skills that are a core requirement of the industry.
The MEng involves a fourth year of advanced Master's-level study.
Students can also learn about project management, teamwork, and leadership, and complete an extended group project.
The MEng involves a fourth year of Master's-level study, which includes modules such as advanced system design, Sustainable Energy Systems and Climate Changes.
In this module, students undertake a group project, generating innovative, inclusive solutions to complex problems in engineering.
This module provides a learning experience that enables students to combine their engineering and scientific knowledge and skills whilst gaining experience of working in and contributing to a team in a simulated professional environment.
Students will have the opportunity to demonstrate their creativity and initiative in carrying out a demanding investigation.
As teams, students will negotiate with their ‘client’, be it an academic supervisor or an external sponsor, develop team working skills, plan their project, and present their work through meetings, reports and oral presentation.
The aim of this module is to provide an overview of the management of projects throughout the project life-cycle, from concept to beneficial operation.
Business has long recognised the imperative for good, integrated processes in order to extract best value from capital investments; this course explores the benefits and imperatives for adopting a Capital Value Process for selecting the right projects to deliver required business goals, and for establishing robust Project Execution Plans for delivering world class results, as well as facilitating executive control at all stages throughout the project lifecycle.
The student will compare and contrast the differing emphases and approaches to project delivery for several professional bodies and will be introduced to ten key project principles which underpin world class project performance across a broad range of industry sectors.
They will also practise using several strategic planning tools to aid objective decision making and option screening.
Importantly, the course will establish the imperative of good health, safety and environmental performance as a business value.
It is not the intention of this module to teach project technical skills, such as planning, estimating or contract administration, but more to equip future project managers with a broad range of skills and competences so that, armed with the core project principles they might harness the skills of a diverse team of project professionals in developing and executing major projects, programmes and portfolios of the future.
After taking this unit the student should be able to appreciate the steady state and dynamic characteristics of induction machines when used for high-power motoring and generating duties.
An understanding of the development of models of electrical machines and devices, and their in performance prediction and for control is introduced as part of this module.
Students will also have the opportunity to develop an appreciation of the technical, commercial and environmental constraints in the design of power systems that integrate renewable and alternative energy sources.
This module aims to provide a thorough introduction to key concepts underlying the options available and the issues related to selection of sensors and actuators for control.
Emphasis will be placed on systems of electro-mechanical nature but reference will be made to the much wider applicability of the techniques.
This module deals with current and potential future energy systems, covering resources, extraction, conversion, and end-use technologies, with emphasis on meeting regional and global energy needs in the 21st century in a sustainable manner.
The course includes the review of various renewable and conventional energy production technologies, energy end-use practices and alternatives, and consumption practices in different countries.
Students are given the opportunity to learn a quali-quantitative framework to aid in evaluation and analysis of energy technology system proposals in the context of engineering, political, social, economic, and environmental goals.
This module builds on earlier control theory to apply and extend the previously studied controller design methods.
The focus is primarily on passenger cars and considers the primary dynamic systems such as driveline, suspension and braking systems.
The module starts with the underlying vehicle system dynamics and the corresponding reduced-order system models, including as the quarter-car suspension model and the bicycle handling model.
Then a number of linear and nonlinear control methods are reviewed and developed in the context of particular control objectives.
For longitudinal motion, control action is centred on the engine, driveline, and brakes.
For vertical motion (ride) the focus is on suspension control, including active and semi-active suspensions.
Finally, handling control is based on active steering and brake-based electronic stability control.
This module covers the theoretical fundamentals and practical applications of Artificial Intelligence (AI), including decision-making, problem-solving and inference abilities in intelligent agents.
Probability theory is introduced as a unifying framework for AI, followed by key topics, including algorithms for knowledge representation, planning and reasoning under uncertainty.
Assessment methods on the Electrical and Electronic Engineering programmes aim to test engineering technical and analytical skills, as well as professional soft skills including oral and written communication, team working, long-life learning, problem-solving, project management, and planning and organisation.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry
________________________ For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Science Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes:
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/course/sfysfyub/engineering/

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/enlenlub:
Q300
By studying English at Lincoln, you can explore a lively and varied collection of texts, from medieval and Renaissance literature right through to twenty-first century culture.
You can benefit from research-led teaching in all modules, covering areas such as the contemporary Gothic, Shakespearean studies, environmentalism, Arthurian legends, detective fiction, dystopian catastrophes, Black British writing, and Victorian childhoods.
The BA (Hons) English course covers poetry, fiction, and drama, as well as less traditional forms of "text" such as life-writing, graphic novels, film, and television.
Throughout the course you are encouraged to consider how literature shapes and challenges our attitudes towards others and can influence and change cultural and political opinion.
The broad range of topics enables you to pursue your own interests, while individual research projects are designed to develop critical thinking skills.
Our literature degree is inspiring, practical, and wide-ranging, preparing students for their future careers.
Students on the course will gain a range of highly transferable skills for the workplace, including written and oral communication, research, analysis, independent judgement, team-working, and project management.
These have included: the previous Poet Laureate, Dame Carol Ann Duffy; the writer and cultural critic Will Self; TV presenter and naturalist Chris Packham; and TV presenter and art historian Andrew Graham-Dixon.
Across the course you can benefit from research-led teaching, covering areas such as the contemporary Gothic, Shakespearean studies, environmentalism, Arthurian legends, dystopian futures, Black British writing, and children's literature.
Our literature degree is inspiring, practical, and wide-ranging, preparing you for your future career.
You can gain a range of highly transferable skills for the workplace, including written and oral communication, research, analysis, independent judgement, team-working, and project management.
Undertake a dissertation on a research topic of your choice
Optional field trips to places of interest in the UK
On-campus library open every day
A number of Lincoln's English academics are international research leaders in their fields, and their research directly informs their teaching.
Areas of particular strength include 21st Century literature, 19th Century literature, Gothic studies, American literature, and the medieval.
The first year of the course introduces narrative, poetry, drama, popular culture, literary history, and literary criticism.
In the second year, you can choose from a range of optional modules which may include The Arthurian Myth, Restoration Literature, Romanticism, and modern American literature.
You may be offered the opportunity to study abroad for one term during the second year, at universities in the US, Canada, Australia, or Germany.
Students who do so are responsible for any associated travel, accommodation, and general living costs.
In the final year, you are able to explore exciting and timely subjects, such as the literature of childhood, literature and the environment, detective fiction, American literature and culture, Gothic literature and film, or specialist author-focused modules such as Chaucer, Shakespeare, Bronte, or Dickens.
You also have the opportunity to undertake a dissertation on a research topic of your choice.
Modules are taught through a variety of methods from year-group lectures and small-group seminar teaching to individual tutorials and one-to-one supervision.
Each of these modes is designed to facilitate your learning by developing a range of different approaches to engaging with texts.
In order to study English at university, you will be expected to read widely in the subject.
This will mean undertaking self-guided study and research in preparation for taught sessions.
You will be provided with detailed reading lists for each module.
Throughout the course you are encouraged to consider how literature shapes and challenges our attitudes towards others, and how it can influence and change cultural and political opinion.
In the second year, you can choose from a range of optional modules which may include The Arthurian Myth, Restoration Literature, Romanticism, and American literature.
These have included: the previous Poet Laureate, Dame Carol Ann Duffy; the writer and cultural critic Will Self; and the TV presenter and naturalist Chris Packham.
Anna and Lucy share their positive experience studying BA (Hons) English at the University of Lincoln.
They share their favourite parts of the course and how the University has prepared them for their careers.
This module introduces students to the distinctive characteristics of drama, theatre, and performance as both literary forms and as performance practices.
Students are encouraged to think about the relationship between written scripts and recorded performance.
The module explores key drama, theatre and performance concepts, such as theatre semiotics, performance spaces, audience and spectatorship, and the performance of identity.
This module looks at what makes poetic language different from 'normal' language, at how poets use the sounds and meanings of words, and at how poetry can be used to refresh, change or question our understanding of the world.
We look at a range of poetry in English from nursery rhymes to rap and from the 14th century to the 21st.
Our aim is to enable students to discuss poetry with confidence, accuracy and clarity, and, we hope, to enjoy more fully “the only art form that you can carry around in your head in its original form”.
Narrative is everywhere in our lives: in books, on TV, in history, on the news, on social media, in our conversations and in our heads.
This module aims to give students an understanding of how narratives work and introduces a set of critical concepts, comprising theories of narratology and ideas of form and genre.
A wide variety of forms of narrative will be addressed, such as the novel, short story, essay, and graphic memoir.
This module aims to provide students with a critical and theoretical vocabulary that will enable them to explore a range of twentieth century cultural activities.
Students will be encouraged to read not only traditionally marginalised literary genres such as romance, crime fiction, science fiction and the comic book but also ‘texts’ from other cultural realms such as film, television, news, fashion, advertising, music TV, radio and magazines.
This module provides an opportunity for English students to spend a semester at second level studying at one of the University’s partner institutions, developing academically and personally.
Participation in study abroad also offers unique opportunities for personal student development in the wider sense, taking in cultural, sporting and social opportunities.
This module will analyse how the medicalised body has been represented, exploited, challenged and reclaimed in art and visual culture.
The themes, ideas, priorities and objects of medicine – such as death, health, sexuality, taboo, trauma, bodily functions, and viscera – have taken centre stage in art and visual culture since the end of the nineteenth century.
This module will explore the manifold ways in which artists have engaged with subjects including medical technologies, disease, disability, blood, and pain, and we will do so in relation to constructions of gender, sexuality, race, class and ability.
What significance do pathology, disease, and patient experience take on in art and visual culture?
To what effects have artists portrayed and perhaps questioned modern therapies and medical technologies, and their subjects, practices and theories?
We will focus on a range of media including painting, sculpture, performance art, conceptual art, film, and photography.
This module explores apocalyptic and post-apocalyptic texts using a range of novels, short stories, poems and films.
Lectures will establish cultural and historical contexts and address issues such as form and genre.
The module will explore a range of significant periods from early Judeo-Christian fears regarding the purging moral apocalypse, through Romantic preoccupations with nature and industrialisation, postmodernism and more contemporary concerns about viral or cybernetic apocalypse.
We will draw from a range of disciplines including literary theory, psychoanalysis, cultural theory, philosophy and trauma theory.
This module, conceptually, textually, formally, and intellectually challenging, is designed to introduce students to a range of innovative literatures, in a variety of forms, in order both to interrogate the idea of experimental writing, and its own often aggressive interrogation of the expressive potential of literature.
In this module students will have the opportunity to explore the early twentieth century, one of the most creative periods in English literature, when writers like James Joyce, T.S.
Eliot, Virginia Woolf and D.H.
Lawrence were challenging conventional ways of writing and reading, and rewriting how we experience and understand the world and ourselves.
Required reading will include some of the most powerful works from the modern movement between 1910 and 1940 including James Joyce’s Ulysses and T.S.
Eliot’s The Waste Land.
This module examines literary representations of the world that emerge from the history of European exploration and expansion, and considers literary responses from groups that were marginalized through imperialism.
Students will be encouraged to look at the treatment by white writers of issues of race and empire in the early twentieth century.
They will also have the opportunity to explore ways in which postcolonial literatures develop strategies of 'writing back' to the imperial centre and re-thinking identity in terms of race, gender and nation.
The final section offers a study of postcolonial Britain and some global implications of postcolonial writing.
Why have detective narratives proved so enduringly popular?
This module will interrogate the iconic figure of the private eye in American popular culture, through the fiction and film of the twentieth and twenty-first century.
This module is designed to examine how terms such as Ireland and Irishness have been constructed and questioned across the last century, a period of immense and often turbulent historical and social change.
It aims to explore the representation of place, the nature of nationalism, the changing family unit, gender roles and Ireland's relationship to globalization in Irish poetry, drama and fiction.
This module responds to the recent interest in the representation of lives within literary studies.
It discusses a range of life representations (including biography, autobiography, letters, confessions, memoirs, and poems) from the Romantic period to the contemporary moment.
Students may consider the origins of autobiography, address Modernist experiments with life representations, and discuss twentieth-century and contemporary innovations, including disability narratives and cross-cultural autobiographies.
Themes such as the construction of selfhood, conceptions of memory, the relational self, and the ethics of life writing are addressed.
The first principle of ecological thinking is that it is not only human beings that are meaningful, and that we are neither so separate from, nor so dominant over, the non-human as we tend to think.
In this module students can explore what difference it makes to read literature from this perspective.
We study literature as part of our complex interaction with our environment, and, perhaps sometimes, as a uniquely valuable one.
Students can read texts from ancient Greek pastoral to contemporary dystopias, and from the poet John Clare to the woodland historian Oliver Rackham.
This module explores the representation of East-West contact in Middle English romances, with a particular emphasis on the interlacement of racial and ethnic otherness and on different types of violence, from martial exploits and religious coercion to rape and cannibalism.
Students will have the chance to experience the breadth of the romance genre—its many thematic and topical branches, and its many sub-genres and their respective conventions—as well as insight to the actual act of crusading, and the cultural and social crises that arose from this act.
This module considers the genre of modern science fiction and its evolution into one of today’s most popular narrative genres.
Analysing a variety of forms – novel, short story, drama, graphic novel and film – students will have the opportunity to examine the socio-historical contexts of some of the most influential narratives of this period.
This ranges from the emergence of “scientific romance” in the late nineteenth century, to late twentieth-century forms like cyberpunk and radical fantasy; from the problems of defining “genre fictions” and privileging science fiction over fantasy, to our enduring fascination with alternate histories, non-human agents (robots, animals, genetic hybrids, the environment), ecocatastrophe and post-apocalypse.
The short story is a peculiar and idiosyncratic form, but one that coalesces from a long tradition of fables, folktales, fairy tales, parables, and even sermons.
Despite this lengthy heritage, it was not until the early 19th century, with writers such as Washington Irving, Nathanial Hawthorne, and Edgar Allen Poe, that the short story became a recognised literary form.
Since then, through writers such as Raymond Carver, Earnest Hemmingway, John Cheever, Donald Barthelme, William Gass and others, the short story has evolved into a complex, myriad, ambiguous literary art.
In this module we will be reading 21st century US short fiction, in order to gain an understanding of the mechanics of the form in its contemporary incarnation, as well as its themes and structures.
While working explicitly in the contemporary, we will also be thinking about the history of the short story as it has developed in the US.
The primary texts move from standard realism, through speculative fiction, the gothic, and into science fiction.
Students reading Georgian Literature have the opportunity to study a selection of canonical and less well-known texts from the period and explore the historical and cultural context of their production.
The module discusses developments in the novel from Daniel Defoe to Jane Austen and innovations in poetry from Alexander Pope to Romantic writers such as William Wordsworth.
Important themes include satire, sensibility, the Gothic, popular and polite culture, authorship, and Georgian theatre.
Contextual discussion focuses on the ‘construction’ of nation, gender, class and empire, and the relationship of British literature to the Enlightenment and to Revolution.
Students can study a diverse range of prose, poetry, and drama written by women from the eighteenth century to the present is considered alongside key concepts in feminist theory and the history of the women’s movement.
Writers range from Mary Wollstonecraft to Zora Neale Hurston to Jeanette Winterson.
Topics range from the feminine aesthetic and French feminism to feminist utopianism and cyberfeminism.
The University of Lincoln's policy on assessment feedback aims to ensure that academics will return in-course assessments to students promptly - usually within 15 working days after the submission date.
Due to the vibrant and varied style of the English degree at Lincoln, the way you are assessed may vary for each module.
Examples of assessment methods that are used include coursework, such as written assignments, reports, dissertations, blogs, and posters; practical assessments such as presentations and performances; and takeaway papers.
Our medieval modules typically include sessions working with manuscripts in the archives at Lincoln Cathedral or optional workshops with local artisans on medieval arts and culture.
Students on this course are also able to attend organised activities such as play readings, film showings, and performances.
We enjoy privileged access to the Tennyson Research Centre.
Located in Lincoln, it is the most significant collection on Alfred, Lord Tennyson in the world, containing more than 3,000 books from Tennyson’s Library, as well as manuscripts, photographs, diaries, journals, notebooks, and letters.
Field trips organised by the School may include visits to Newstead Abbey, former home of the poet Lord Byron, and Shakespeare's Globe Theatre in London.
These are optional and participation on trips will not impact upon grades awarded on this programme.
The costs of transport and entry fees, where applicable, are covered by the School.
Students are, however, expected to cover their own subsistence costs while attending field trips.
Staff ensure that students grow in confidence.
They nurture students' passion and determination.
Tayler Stevens
BA (Hons) English graduate
Students undertaking this degree have the option to study abroad at one of the University’s partner institutions for one term during their second year.
This can provide an insight into alternative approaches to the study of the subject and gives students the opportunity to experience another culture.
Those who choose to study abroad are responsible for any associated travel, accommodation, and general living costs.
Meet Mary Dansie, a BA (Hons) English graduate, as she shares how her degree prepared her for her role as a Libraries Manager at Nottingham City Libraries.
The English programme at Lincoln can help you prepare for a range of career paths in the future.
Former graduates have gone on to pursue careers in publishing, journalism, advertising, public relations, copy-writing , the civil service, and communications.
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 7.0 overall, with a minimum of 6.5 in each element.
For further advice on IELTS and the support available, please contact the International College by email at internationalcollege@lincoln.ac.uk.
Students should expect to obtain copies of the primary texts for all modules, and occasionally anthologies and/or critical texts as specified in module reading lists before the start of each year.
Occasionally materials used in addition to these texts will be provided.
Further materials for study are available in the University's library and online.
If students choose to undertake an optional placement in the UK or overseas or study abroad, they will be required to cover their own travel, accommodation, and general living costs.
Field trips are optional and participation on trips will not impact upon grades awarded on this programme.
Students are, however, expected to cover their own subsistence costs whilst attending field trips.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/enlcrwub:
Q320
Study world literature, explore your talents, and build a solid technical foundation as a writer with this joint honours degree.
BA (Hons) English and Creative Writing enables students to consider literature from a variety of theoretical, historical, and cultural perspectives.
These include poetry, fiction, and drama, as well as less traditional literary forms, such as non-fiction, audio drama, and graphic novels.
Throughout their studies, students can develop their craft as authors, building their own portfolio of creative writing pieces across a wide range of popular formats.
Teaching on the programme is enhanced by workshops, readings, and masterclasses with visiting authors.
This gives students practical experience and enables them to learn from experts in the field.
Recent students have enjoyed visits from Poet Laureate Dame Carol Ann Duffy, author and TV presenter Chris Packham, and art historian Andrew Graham-Dixon.
*Out of 49 ranking institutions in the Complete University Guide 2025.
This course introduces students to literary forms and theories, enabling them to explore texts and authors from past and present.
They are able to study the various approaches to creative writing through the close reading of major contemporary authors, examining their techniques and applying them to the production of original, imaginative work.
In the third year, a wide range of optional modules enables students to pursue areas of particular interest and develop their portfolios while engaging in individual research.
This reflects the programme's clear focus on employability, which aims to prepare students for a professional writing or publishing career.
This module provides an opportunity for English and Creative Writing students to spend a term at second level studying at one of the University’s partner institutions.
During the term abroad students undertake a course load at the partner institution of equivalent standard to that of one term of the programme at Lincoln.
Participation in study abroad also offers opportunities for personal student development in the wider sense, taking in cultural, sporting, and social opportunities.
The aim of this module is to give students an insight into careers in the writing industries.
It aims to prepare and support them in the process of applying for employment, residencies, grants, internships and other work in the creative industries and also help to prepare them for the realities of life as a contemporary writer.
Lincoln’s English academics are research leaders in their fields, and their projects directly inform their teaching.
There are particular strengths in 21st Century literature, 19th Century literature, Gothic studies, American literature, and the medieval.
Students may benefit from readings and masterclasses by published authors and guest speakers in the creative industries.
Previous guests have included  Dame Carol Ann Duffy, Dame Penelope Lively, and Patience Agbabi.
In the second year, students have the option to select a Study Abroad Period.
Students can spend a term studying at one of the University’s partner institutions.
In order to participate, students are usually expected to obtain a 2:1 or higher in first year, have a good record of attendance and participation, and must complete an application process.
A limited number of places will be available each year, and participation is at the discretion of the module co-ordinator and the Programme Leader.
Students are responsible for travel, accommodation, and general living costs while studying abroad.
The University of Lincoln’s Creative Writing programme is unparalleled, offering a diverse range of modules and exceptional academic support.
In comparison to programmes offered by other universities, it is by far the most outstanding I’ve seen.
Jessica Toye
BA (Hons) English and Creative Writing graduate
English and Creative Writing graduates may choose to pursue careers in various literary and creative professions, such as publishing, journalism, advertising, public relations, marketing, the civil service, and communications.
Students can continue their studies at postgraduate level or take qualifications in teaching.
Lincoln graduates have gone on to work at regional and national media outlets including the BBC, The Daily Mail, and Channel 4.
Students are responsible for travel, accommodation, and general living costs while on study abroad.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/enlhstub:
QV31
The BA (Hons) English and History programme invites students to study history, combined with literature in English from the medieval period to the 21st Century.
The study of these closely related fields  encourages students to analyse a range of literary approaches while exploring questions about the past, enabling you to better understand and interpret the world around you.
Students are able to study a broad range of writers, taking a global approach to the study of literature.
They can choose to study periods ranging from the Roman to the modern day, and explore world  histories.
The BA (Hons) English and History course lets students combine their passion for history with their love of English literature.
At Lincoln you'll join others who want to explore these subjects together.
The English and History programme covers a range of topics from the medieval period to the 21st century.
Studying these closely related fields alongside one another allows students to encounter a lively and varied collection of literary texts while exploring key questions about the past.
As a joint-honours student, you will emerge with a keen ability to better understand and interpret the world around you.
They can choose to study periods ranging from the Roman to the modern day, with particular emphasis on contemporary global histories.
Beyond subject expertise, the varied English and History curriculum will develop your skills in research and data analysis; critical thinking; digital software use; project management; publishing, writing and editing; media and communication; information literacy and organisational management; teaching and learning; and leadership, governance, and public service.
Subject area is ranked top twenty for student satisfaction in the UK*
Study in a city filled with history
*Complete University Guide 2025 (out of 90 ranking institutions)
This joint honours degree enables students to take an interdisciplinary approach to their studies.
Students will benefit from research-led teaching in all modules across the degree.
Students will divide their time, and spread of modules taken, equally between the two subjects.
Alongside core modules such as Texts in Time and The Historian's Craft, optional modules could include The Medieval World; Classic and Contemporary Fantasy; Ancient Graffiti; Renaissance Literature, and Twenty-First Century Literature.
Modules are taught through a selection of methods from whole-cohort lectures through small-group seminar teaching and workshops to individual tutorials and supervision.
Each of these modes is designed to facilitate your learning by developing a range of different approaches to engaging with texts, other types of material, and a variety of methodologies.
In order to study English and History at university, students will be expected to read widely in their subjects.
This will mean self-guided study and reading in preparation for taught sessions, as will be indicated in the reading lists for each module.
Lincoln's English and history academics are international research leaders in their fields.
This work directly informs your learning, and all of your modules are guided by the research expertise of your teachers.
Areas of particular strength include medieval and 19th century studies, gothic studies, American literature, heritage and conservation practice, histories of gender, sexuality, race and citizenship, and modern British and American history.
Each year of your course evenly combines the study of English and history.
In your first year you will be introduced to themes in narrative, poetry, drama, popular culture, and literary criticism.
You will develop the fundamental skills that historians apply in their research while growing essential knowledge of British and global histories.
In the second year, you can choose from a range of optional modules which may include the Arthurian myth, romanticism, modern American literature, peace and conflict studies, histories of the 20th century, and the latest in digital history research methods.
Your second semester allows you to begin work on your final year independent study.
You may also have the opportunity to study abroad for one term during the second year, at universities in the North America, Europe, and Australia.
In your final year, you explore exciting and timely subjects such as the literature of childhood, literature and the environment, detective fiction, or specialist author-focused modules such as Chaucer, Shakespeare, Bronte, or Dickens.
You also select from a range of modules based on our historians' latest research, with options including the American civil rights movement, air war and society, chivalry in medieval Europe, the history of Hong Kong, and many more.
You will also complete a year-long independent research project on a topic of your choice.
Modules are taught through a variety of methods from year group lectures and small group seminar teaching to individual tutorials and one-to-one supervision.
In order to study English and history, you will be expected to read widely in the subject.
This module is designed to enable students’ to develop their research skills in history and their understanding of research as a process of inquiry.
Students have the opportunity to deepen skills developed in the first term, such as essay writing in history and information literacy, by working alongside staff from the School in analysing primary and secondary sources relating to specific approaches to History.
This module provides a thematic survey of European and Atlantic history from the mid-eighteenth century to the final decades of the twentieth century, structured around the research interests of members of the module teaching team.
This survey provides an overview of key moments in modern history from 1750-1979, and addresses the complex development of states primarily in western Europe but with attention to the growing influence of the United States and Russia.
This module aims to introduce students to the different approaches to the study of history which have developed, with a particular focus on twentieth-century ideas and innovations, such as ‘history from below’, women’s and gender history, history of sexuality, cultural history, post-colonial approaches, and recent developments in the field.
Students will be encouraged to think critically and creatively about how history has developed within the academy, as a particular branch of knowledge and as a discipline with its own rules and procedures.
This module aims to prepare students for designing their dissertation (independent study) proposals and for applying to jobs and postgraduate programmes.
Students will explore how to prepare for and ensure success in their dissertations, employment, and study/research by identifying and articulating their transferable skills, breadth of knowledge, expertise, and interests.
The module will provide information on how to become aware of opportunities, to plan and prepare for the future, and to build on their undergraduate careers.
This module aims to introduce students to some of the central concepts, issues, theories, and debates in an area of moral philosophy called "normative ethics", thereby providing them with a framework for thinking seriously about moral matters, and to assist them in developing their philosophical and analytical skills.
We will distinguish and evaluate the leading positions on these issues through a range of more specific topics in normative ethics.
This module provides an opportunity for  History students to spend a term studying at one of the University’s partner institutions in North America or Europe.
Students will be expected to cover their own transport, accommodation and living costs.
In the Twentieth Century new aviation technologies transformed understandings of war, peace, civilian and military.
The module considers how ideas about air power developed, what informed this understanding of war, and what the consequences were.
This is not a traditional military history concerned with narrative accounts of battles or armies, but one that asks questions about the relationship between military and civilian in society and culture in the twentieth century.
This module will explore the different schools of thought and the political activities of the various groups and individuals that comprised the anarchist movement.
Anarchism is a political doctrine based on freedom, egalitarianism and social justice and that developed in Europe as a political movement in the mid-XIX century.
Anarchism never reached the ascendancy achieved by liberalism or communism; however, it had a significant influence on the political ideas, social movements, culture, and education of the international labour movement.
The module will examine consumption in many of its forms in early modern Western Europe.
Focusing on a number of areas, such as food, clothing, furnishings, houses and other goods increasingly accessible to people at all levels of society, the module will encourage students to consider how and why these were available.
This module explores the history of science, sexuality and politics in the UK, Continental Europe, the US and Latin America from 1850 to 2000.
It will give students an excellent grounding in modern and contemporary history that will complement further modules at level 3 that deal with sexuality, gender, race, science and medicine.
It module examines the controversial rise of eugenics movements as a global phenomenon.
The purpose of this module is to sustain a balanced and informed discussion about how race, reproduction, and the improvement of human heredity have acquired great political relevance in the modern period.
It explores how scientists and different governments became preoccupied with hereditary theories, race, reproduction and sexual behaviour.
It examines how societies across the Atlantic developed government policies around areas such as family planning, pronatalism, sterilisation, and race, which culminated in the implementation of euthanasia programmes in Nazi Germany.
This module looks at eugenics programmes and politics in a transnational context, exploring how, for example, Nazi Germany’s sterilisation programmes were inspired by those already implemented in the US and how a number of Latin American countries adapted and transformed eugenics policies from Southern Europe and developed whitening policies.
This module explores the various ways in which the world was put on display in the nineteenth century, and with what aims and effects.
The nineteenth century was a period during which museums, galleries, exhibitions, zoos and circuses all expanded in numbers and took on distinctive modern forms; it was also one where the ‘freak show’ became both popular but also frowned upon, while optical toys and attractions reformed ‘ways of seeing’.
This module will explore the development, decline and revival of stained glass from the early middle ages to the mid twentieth century.
The focus will be on British stained glass with particular reference to windows that students can visit in person, particularly in Lincoln Cathedral and the parish churches of the region.
Students will learn to analyse windows through a number of methodological frameworks in particular: production (design and manufacture), consumption (patronage, iconography and meaning) and aesthetics (style, drawing, manipulation of light).
Students at level three have to undertake an Independent Study project.
This is an extended piece of work that gives them the opportunity to demonstrate they have acquired the skills to undertake historical inquiry and analysis.
In their final year, every student on the BA (Hons) History degree programme at the University of Lincoln must produce an independent study.
This is an extended piece of work which gives them the opportunity to demonstrate they have acquired the skills to undertake detailed and substantial subject-specific research and writing founded on critical inquiry and analysis.
The module will give students practical experience of the workplace.
Students will normally define, plan and undertake a specific project.
In addition students will gain experience of a range of tasks appropriate to sector-specific professional skills.
Hong Kong’s history lies at the intersection of Chinese, British imperial, and transnational histories.
This module explores the history of Hong Kong from its colonisation by Britain in 1841 up to the present day.
The module seeks to introduce the city’s history to students, explore the ways historians have engaged with and approached this history, and to help students develop skills of historical analysis and debate.
Through engaging with the rich historical debates and with English-language and translated primary materials, students on this module may study issues and themes including, but not limited to: imperialism; colonialism; transnational networks; international and diplomatic history; economic and business history; social history; urban history; migration and diaspora history.
The 20th century saw unprecedented social, economic, political and cultural change in Britain.
However, the equally dramatic shifts in how sexuality and masculinity were experienced and represented are often ignored.
This module aims to enable students to study the history of 20th Century Britain while using the lens of gender and sexuality to understand how ordinary men lived their lives.
Students will get the opportunity to work with a wide variety of primary sources such as: court records, newspapers, film, photographs, music, autobiographies, oral history and literature.
This module examines the emergence, development and legacy of Pre-Raphaelitism and Aestheticism and how these movements influenced British culture.
The module will explore how Pre-Raphaelite painters attempted to redefine the natural role of art and how ‘Aesthetic’ artists went on to question their approach.
The module will explore the work of the key protagonists of each movement and how their work crossed over into other media such as stained glass, painted furniture and book illustration.
Portrayals of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender lives on screen are under increasing scrutiny from audiences, activists and media scholars.
But, for much of the history of film and television, non-normative sexual and gender identities have been marginalised or hidden.
This module examines the history of queer representations in screen culture from the era of silent films to the present day.
Students will have the opportunity to work with examples from a range of national contexts, including (but not limited to) Britain and America, as well as engaging with influential scholarship in queer theory and the history of gender and sexuality.
This module aims to examine how living in cities shaped the ways our lives and society have developed since the 19th Century.
In the early 19th Century the population of Europe largely lived in rural settlements, yet 100 years later the populations of Western Europe's cities had exploded.
Cities produced new forms of social organisation: for the first time drag queens and prostitutes rubbed shoulders with housewives, the rich discovered the poor on their very doorsteps and the unregulated spaces of cities became havens for counter-cultures, deviant sexualities and radical politics.
This module examines how African Americans tried to cast off the economic, political, cultural and social ties that bound them to second-class citizenship within the United States.
We primarily focus on the Southern version of the black freedom struggle before casting our attention to a wider American political, social, and racial context — particularly as we challenge “the master narrative” of the civil rights movement that was once presented and represented as the singular history of the movement for African American freedom.
In charting the course of the civil rights movement in the twentieth century and beyond, we analyse the most venerated events and personalities of the era and aim to understand the movement on its own terms.
We will explore its richness and its internal complexities, especially when reviewing the varying tactics and ideological differences of the movement’s leaders.
The module asks us to question the presumed victories of the civil rights movement, to stretch our chronological understanding beyond traditional beginnings and endings, to acknowledge the complexity of American racial identity, and reveal what it tells us about the wider political and social dimensions of modern US history.
This module aims to equip students with the skills necessary to communicate their learning in an academic environment, and also supports students in adjusting to the demands of higher education.
The core objective of the module is to develop students’ critical thinking and writing skills.
The United States emerged from the Second World War a superpower, with, to an extent, a belief that it could remake the world.
The challenges of the Cold War years were to demonstrate how limited was that power.
This module explores the key social, political, economic and cultural developments in the United States between 1945 and 1990.
This module explores the relationship between madness and British society from the late eighteenth century to the present day.
Students can examine how institutional approaches to the treatment of insanity have changed, from the eighteenth-century madhouse, to the Victorian asylum, to care in the community in the twentieth century.
They will assess changing medical, legal and lay responses to insanity, including the role that class, gender, family and community played in defining insanity and its treatment.
The period from 1700 to 1850 was one of transition and change in the British Isles and North America, marking an ideological and material shift away from the legacy of medieval Europe and the period of initial colonial contact.
This module challenges students to engage with historical, cartographical, and material evidence.
Students are introduced to the landscapes, streetscapes, and social make-up of the long eighteenth century, and can discuss in seminars how broad events impacted everyday lives, the urban, and rural landscape.
This module tests the claim that the period from the 1880s to the First World War was an ‘Age of Transition’, which witnessed the birth of modern British politics.
Through an analysis of this argument, students are introduced to some of the major developments in British political history in the period 1885-1914, including the birth of the welfare state, the creation of the Labour Party, the conflict over ‘Votes for Women’ and British foreign policy before World War One.
This module aims to introduce students to some of the key interdisciplinary themes in American cultural history in the first half of the twentieth century as well as to theoretical works that have shaped American cultural studies since the 1950s.
The module will investigate and evaluate academic argument relating to the study of American cultural history from a variety of theoretical, philosophical and methodological perspectives including feminism, social theory, post-structuralism, and postmodernism.
The typical image of a rural village, whether a chocolate box idyll prettily nestled around its church or a commuter dormitory boringly empty of anything fun to do, rarely shows much evidence for anything dramatic.
However, these places were created by people who lived through events which are almost unimaginable to us today including the Norman Conquest and the Black Death, and for whom a perpetual challenge was simply surviving in a period where barely half of those born lived to adulthood.
In this module students will have the opportunity to learn how to critically analyse and interpret historical and archaeological evidence and to use their knowledge and skills to write a new history of any rural settlement of their choice.
In this module, students will have the opportunity to take a vivid and intellectually exciting journey through primary and secondary sources in order to understand the historical trajectory of the Iberian Peninsula from the end of the sixth century to the collapse of the Caliphate of Córdoba in 1031.
The aim of the module is to provide an introduction to two major medieval cities, Toledo and Córdoba, via acquaintance with and discussion of material that allows us to reflect upon a fascinating complex of problems.
This module covers the history and historiography of one of the most popular and sophisticated systems of medicine in the world: Chinese medicine.
Starting from a comparison of the conceptualisation and representation of the body in early China versus ancient Greece, the module introduces students to key ideas in Chinese medicine such as “Yin Yang”, “Five Processes”, “Qi”, “Meridians” and “Five Organs and Six Bowels”.
Diagnosis (including pulse-taking and tongue examination) and therapy (including moxibustion and acupuncture) are explored, alongside the Chinese tradition of “self-cultivation” and the various techniques that promote health –– and even immortality.
Theories concerning food and drugs are dissected, and the tremendous plurality of practitioners throughout the history of Chinese medicine are analysed in detail.
No prior knowledge on the history of medicine, Chinese history, or Chinese language is required.
What was the workhouse?
What was life like within its doors?
Into the workhouse explores this infamous institution in England and Wales, from its beginnings as just one of a variety of methods of relieving poverty, through to its zenith in the Victorian era with the implementation of a harsh regime.
We will trace this transition, from fairly ad hoc cottage through to purpose-built institution, throughout this module.
We start the course by asking: who were ‘the poor’?
And what help was available to them?
We will learn what poor relief was, and how it was an important part of a broader economy of makeshifts - offering everything from money to bread, from shoes to tools, and from a bed to medical help.
How poor relief operated varied from place to place until the passage of the Poor Law Amendment Act in 1834.
This ‘New’ poor law placed a Commission in charge of a compulsory workhouse system with which we are familiar from novels and films.
Why and how this new system was created will be our next focus, before we embark on a field trip to a workhouse and museum to understand what life was like within its walls.
While the Victorian workhouse is often portrayed as a static and dreary Dickensian place, full of helpless individuals, this module will uncover a fresh, dynamic perspective.
We will find out how individuals navigated and used workhouses, and how they asserted their agency.
We will understand how workhouses were protested against, and pulled into disrepute in a series of national scandals.
Workhouses were also a site of immense social innovation, especially in medical care.
The institution saw renewed attention in the late nineteenth-century but came to an end in 1929.
What led to its demise and the lasting legacy will be studied in the final week.
In this module you will critically analyse a wide range of sources, including official reports, parish registers, plans and maps and workhouse artefacts, as well as first-hand accounts of workhouse life in legal depositions, pauper letters, poems and diaries.
This module explores how criminal lunatics - criminals who developed insanity in prison and individuals who committed a crime whilst insane - were represented and treated in nineteenth century Britain.
Students can examine why some criminals were deemed insane and others were not; how criminal lunacy was defined in medicine and in law; how and why the institutions, people and practices for treating the criminal and criminal lunatic changed over the period; the role gender and class played in crimes, trials, diagnoses and treatment; and how criminality and criminal insanity were represented by laymen.
This module will focus on the process of economic and political integration, which has taken place in Western Europe since 1945.
The emphasis will be placed on the global forces which have shaped, and are still shaping, this process of integration.
The module will also investigate the impact of the Cold and Korean Wars, the European Recovery Programme and other factors from outside Europe.
The image of Vikings from the north plundering their way across Europe is firmly fixed in popular imagination.
Few people stop to think that the same people were also farmers, the heads of families and had home lives.
The historical sources for the Vikings in the North Atlantic are pitifully few – a small number of sagas and a few other records.
We often know more about the Vikings from those with whom they came into contact than from their own accounts.
This module integrates the different lines of evidence – historical, archaeological and environmental – and evaluates whether the idea of a ‘Viking world’ is a useful approach.
Students can gain an introduction to texts in translation and archaeological reports, and explore the main limitations of our understanding of the North Atlantic regions in this period.
The way in which you will be assessed may vary from module to module.
It may include written coursework such as essays, as well as written exams, group work, or presentations.
The University of Lincoln's policy is to ensure that staff return assessments to students promptly, typically within 15 working days.
English and history at Lincoln equips you with a wide range of skills and competencies.
We offer numerous ways for you to demonstrate your abilities, including through research essays and analytical reports; presentations and performances; curated exhibitions, teaching curricula, and archival collections; and scripted podcasts or digital productions.
In your final year, you will manage an independent research project (a dissertation) on a topic of your choice with the support of our researchers.
Assessment feedback is tailored to each individual's learning progress, ensuring that our guidance remains relevant beyond the end of a specific module and informs your ongoing development as a historian.
Personalising feedback in this way enables us to account for your individual interests, skills, and strengths, helping you to craft your own learning journey with an eye to your future career plans.
Field trips organised by the School include visits to Newstead Abbey, former home of the poet Lord Byron, and Shakespeare's Globe Theatre in London.
Studying English and History at Lincoln has been a highly enjoyable experience and I believe the University has helped me to achieve my full potential.
Joanne Tingle
BA (Hons) English and History
Our research-active staff are engaged in work which directly informs their teaching.
There are particular strengths in 21st Century literature, 19th Century literature, Gothic studies, American literature and the medieval.
Current research projects include studies on Shakespeare, women’s life writing, the literature of homelessness, ecogothic, the literature of Brexit, detective fiction, ageing in Victorian fiction, werewolves in medieval texts, the reception of William Blake, nineteenth-century religious writing, literature and the visual, and women’s writing in the time of Covid.
Students studying English are welcome to attend research events hosted by the School, which provide opportunities to learn more about the work in which members of staff are engaged, and to hear more about specialist research by visiting speakers.
English and History graduates may go on to careers in education, the civil service, media, journalism, heritage, publishing, communications, and the arts.
They may choose to continue their studies at postgraduate level or take qualifications in teaching.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/touemnub:
N820
The BSc (Hons) Events Management programme can equip students with the practical skills and academic knowledge needed for a career in the dynamic, diverse, and vibrant global events industry.
Our degree covers key areas like event design, live event planning, operations management, sponsorship, and entrepreneurship, giving students a clear understanding of the global events industry.
The programme also includes important aspects of event management such as legal frameworks, risk management, and health and safety, ensuring students know the necessary regulations and procedures.
Additionally, students will develop essential business, management, and leadership skills.
Throughout the course, students are encouraged to think critically and apply their knowledge to real-world situations.
They can gain hands-on experience in live event planning, helping them develop the practical skills needed for the fast-evolving events sector.
By combining academic learning with practical application, our degree prepares students for the competitive and dynamic world of event management.
Hands-on experience with live events throughout the year
Choose your own pathway with optional modules
Opportunities to study abroad
Benefit from industry insights through guest lectures, workshops, and field t
Graduates working at Samsung, Hilton, Ocado, and Printworks London
*Guardian University Guide 2025 (out of 49 ranking institutions)
In the first year, the BSc (Hons) Events Management programme can provide students with a solid foundation in event management and explores the connections between events, tourism, and sport.
Essential business modules are also included to give students a strong understanding of business and management principles.
In the second year, the focus shifts to event planning, design, production, and operations, with an emphasis on resource management and operational considerations.
Additionally, students will examine the environmental impact of events and explore ways to make them more sustainable.
They will also learn how to ensure events are accessible to all participants, regardless of background or ability.
The role of technology in shaping modern events is also covered, highlighting its growing importance in the industry.
In the final year, students apply their skills in live event settings and gain insights into strategy, entrepreneurship, and contemporary issues, while undertaking a final project that allows them to specialise in an area of their interest.
Join us as four Events Management students share their journey at the University of Lincoln on graduation day!
Discover why they recommend BSc (Hons) Events Management and how it prepared them for the dynamic world of events.
The events industry today provides society with the platform to fulfil an array of leisure, entertainment, commerce, business, ceremonial, and social needs.
From globally renowned festivals to regional conferencing, the events industry has become an intertwined industry, integral in the facilitation of varied occasions.
Considering this information, students throughout the course of this module will begin to understand and appreciate the holism of this industry, its social and economic impact, and its dynamism and active development.
Sporting mega events like the Olympics and Paralympics are dynamic and multifaceted occasions embracing a range of fundamental management practices.
Focusing on several of these key management concerns including events management, sports management, tourism management, marketing, and advertising, this module will provide students with an opportunity to critically examine the ways in which each subject is considered across the Olympic and Paralympic event lifecycle.
In a highly competitive and globalised tourism, events, and sports business industry, businesses active in these fields are constantly struggling to attract local national and international visitors, attendees, fans, or funding.
These are truly global industries, constantly struggling for resources.
Crucial to their development and success is being able to research the needs of their customers and other stakeholders, the impacts they have on the industry, markets, and destinations, as well as their available resources.
Research is an integral part of the tourism industry and tourism management.
Upon completion of this module, students should be able to evaluate the significance and use of published data and original research within tourism, events and sports business management; develop and implement research strategies appropriate to the study of these interconnected industries and their stakeholders; and collect, analyse, interpret, and present data that supports local and global tourism, events and sports businesses in their decision-making process.
This knowledge will be of relevance and will enhance the academic work produced during their second and final year of study across the three programmes.
The module will discuss a range of highly popular global case-studies with the areas of tourism, events, and sports business management such as the Olympics, Eurovision, or the MICE industry (meetings, incentive travel, conferences, exhibitions).
It is vital to introduce key concepts to the successful running of such case-studies such as experience management (the visitor experience or the tourist experience for tourism management; the venue experience or the event attendee experience for events management; the fan or the club experience for sports business management) before proceeding to more complex issue in the 2nd and final year of study.
The module achieves that with the help of a range of theoretical and practical case-studies.
The module complements the year 1 core tourism, events, and sports business modules very well because it focuses on the practical application of these key concepts, and it allows their observation in practice with the help of fieldtrips and fieldwork.
Students will engage with practical activities related to these three themes and in addition they will push their knowledge and skills further by investigating the themes through fieldwork and data collection.
This module provides students with an opportunity to develop a range of research skills, both quantitative and qualitative.
It enables students to understand the nature of evidence in research as well as undertake their own independent research.
In doing so, it aims to prepare students for their final year dissertation (or consultancy project) by giving them the chance to develop skills, ideas, and confidence to undertake a major piece of primary research.
The module also encourages students to evaluate research using the key concepts of reliability and validity.
The contemporary events landscape has become a multi-sensorial, dynamic, and spectacularised sector.
The vibrancy of activities that are now intersected across the events industry means that the design and underpinning production have come decisive event areas.
This module will highlight, through knowledge and skills development, why event design and production have become pivotal event areas.
By examining stakeholders, supply chain management, project management tools and techniques, and financial and legal issues, students on this module are encouraged to think more deeply about the concept of project management.
Students on this module can also explore areas of digitalisation and regeneration which are key to project management in tourism, sports, or live events.
The basis of this module is that students work in groups to undertake a ‘live’ project, with a particular critical focus, for a tourism/events/sports local employer as client.
Students are encouraged to think of themselves as graduate trainees, who under the direction of their tutor as a consultancy project director, undertake research, evaluate and synthesise the information acquired, and present it to their client with recommendations.
This process will enable students to gain insights into the internal and external environments in which organisations operate, and put into practice some of the frameworks acquired in the degree programme to date as a response to a client brief.
The purpose of this module is to explore how digitalisation and automatization are impacting the fields of tourism, events, and sports business management.
The emergence of digital cultures because of this aggressive digital expansion is fascinating within the three fields.
Known for their need for a high number of employees and people management, the three industries are being automated and digitalised at an unprecedented speed.
AI and chat bots are replacing customer service; service and social robots are efficiently replacing the human workforce across these three sectors.
The remaining human workforce is required to adapt and embrace technological advances at an unprecedented speed.
This leads to changes in thought patters, work patterns, organisational structures and cultures across the board.
The emergence of a digital economy has significantly influenced the nature of tourism, events and sport business management and marketing.
Cultural and technological shifts seem to have not only led to a further proliferation of events for example but altered expectations as people place higher value on innovation and creativity.
Moreover, the way destinations, attractions, and other tourism related activities and aspects, or events are developed, promoted, and experienced, or sports clubs and fan engagement is designed, continue to change as cultures and technologies interact.
Participatory cultures mean that audiences and delegates interact in physical space and cyberspace in different ways; the experience can no longer be scripted and controlled.
The way people consume experiences shifts, as they engage in social media, in an environment which is both diverse and rich in content and networks; events are multi-media, mixing traditional ‘face to face’ interaction, with animated, visual, augmented and audio channels.
Attendees expect to be able to communicate, connect, learn, and work whenever and wherever they want including while engaging with tourism, events, or sports, whilst travelling or at leisure.
industry narratives are being constructed in cyberspace, shifting the way destinations, events, attractions, and service providers are understood and imagined.
This module explores the interaction of contemporary cultural shifts (including networked and participatory cultures) and technological change.
The purpose of the Event Operations module is to introduce students to a range of key event operations theories such as health and safety, risk management, people management and the Principles of Law governing events.
This module introduces students to the structure and legal frameworks within which the providers of events services are permitted to operate.
Management from the events sector perspective involves live interaction with a range of ‘stakeholders’: consumers, suppliers, performers, employees and regulatory agencies.
It is therefore important that managers and organisers have awareness and have both an understanding of the relevant substantive law as well as an awareness of procedure and practice in order that they can make an informed choice and can be held accountable for their 'real' world decisions.
The learning programme focuses on encouraging the critical evaluation of the people management skills that leads to a positive impact on employee performance and their optimal contribution to the live events sector.
The nature of the service relationship is examined critically as being essential to the successful growth of organisations in the visitor economy.
It is, therefore, necessary to understand the requirements for effective HRM in the events sector.
Experience is an important feature found across the events industry.
It is a key dynamic regularly written into the strategic aims and objectives of events of all types.
However, experience is not a keyword that can be simply defined.
In fact, an attempt to fully understand experience is problematic given its subjectivity and fluidity as a word.
This module, therefore, considers the complexities of experience and critically assesses the docile use of the term experience within an event context.
This module will raise awareness about the importance of comprehending the elasticity and dynamism of experience for the purpose of strategic event advantage.
In this module you can gain insight into sponsorship as a form of integrated marketing communications which incorporates sponsorship planning, objective setting, and evaluation.
By using real world examples, you can explore the principles of buying and selling sponsorship packages and understand how a prospective sponsor would compare opportunities.
This module aims to give you the knowledge to package and sell sport and events marketing and sponsorship programmes.
The purpose of the module is to expose students to relevant industry insights, perspectives, opinions, and experiences and facilitate a critical understanding of working in the tourism, events, and sports business industries.
Life-long learning and value creation are necessary elements in the successful development and progression of a tourism, events, and sports business professional.
The module aims to empower students and guide their development into reflexive, ethical, and responsible tourism practitioners by exposing them to industry practitioners, their practices, and experiences.
As a result, students will be able to demonstrate that they have life-long learnings skills to sustain effectiveness and value creation in a global-local business environment within the tourism, events, and sports business industries and beyond.
Throughout the module, students will be able to apply graduate knowledge and a local and global mindset in a manner which is consistent with sustainable development goals.
The module content, theories and guest speakers will facilitate a critical discussion on the nature of the tourism, events and sports business working environment and will support their job hunting and career mapping after graduation.
Exposure to concepts such as cultural capital and emotional capital, as well as coaching in the workplace will help develop student employability, resilience, and emotional intelligence.
The module will discuss practical applications of change management, industry resilience, innovation, and creativity management for the three sister industries, as well as in relation to professional development and the student as future industry professional.
It is vital to reflect on how change management, creativity management and innovation management theory can help the industry as well as the tourism, events, and sports business professional.
Understanding of industry application of these key theories enhances the resilience and adaptability of those working in them.
Students will be able to utilise evidence and critical thinking as the basis for creative problem solving and to inform responsible decision-making within the tourism, events, and sports business industries.
Exposure to industry professionals and networking opportunities will support students to be effective communicators within diverse stakeholder contexts within the tourism, events and sports business industries and the wider economy.
After completion of this module students should be able to contribute to the development of inclusive, responsible, and resilient tourism, events, and sport business industries.
The purpose of the Live Events Management module is to support the development of students as event managers.
Students will build upon the knowledge acquired in the first and second year of their degree and put theory into practice to establish themselves as event organisers.
Throughout the module students will acquire both theoretical knowledge and practical skills in planning and executing a live event.
The module will cover key areas in event management such as event design, sustainability in event practice, or event evaluation and legacy.
Both highly successful event examples, complex event failures and a wide range of event management case-studies will be used to help students understand the events industry and events from a practical angle.
Students will be able to organise a live event and reflect on their development as event mangers.
Within each workshop group, students will be split into one of four sub-groups, namely a project management team, a marketing & PR team, an operations team, and a finance team.
Each workshop group will work within these teams to organise an event for their chosen charity or university society.
Students will then be able to reflect on and write about their experience organising a face-to-face, online or a hybrid event.
This module is inscribed within the principles of social justice, critical tourism studies and responsible management, and underpinned by a range of concepts drawn from sociology.
In particular, it relates to the following sustainable development goals: SDG8 Decent work and economic growth and SDG10 Reduced inequalities.
This module focuses on developing critical, reflexive and ethical future leaders and industry professionals.
It actively engages students in critical reflection, research and dialogue, identifying critical issues in the contemporary tourism industry as well as seeking solutions to overcome marginalisation and inequalities, and make tourism workplaces and experiences more inclusive.
Through the module, students explore critical issues related to tourism participation (taking into consideration gender, race, age, disability), tourism employment and workplace experiences.
Students are introduced to and actively engage with research on tourism (in)equalities from both the tourist and worker perspectives.
The module examines the social factors and global political trends and how these shape both access to, and work within, tourism.
It focuses on the way in which key socio-political variables, such as class, race, gender, age and nationality shape such access to tourism and workplace experiences.
The module aims to examine how access to tourism is shaped by the myriad social and political relationships that are a part of every person’s lived experience.
The module also looks at conditions of work within the tourism sector, addressing a range of issues and concepts related to tourism workplaces and affecting tourism workers.
It is expected that by the end of the module students will have had the opportunity to develop a deeper critical appreciation of how issues such as inequalities in race, class, gender and access to technology, shape holiday-taking patterns as well as how they impact on working in tourism.
As they transition to the world of employment and graduate job market, the goal is to equip students with knowledge and understanding of these critical issues, and in this way shape them as leaders of the future, able to transform the industry for the better and make it more equitable and inclusive.
The purpose of the module is to expose students to various theoretical and practical aspects of entrepreneurship and new business venture creation in tourism, events, and sports business management.
The role of entrepreneurship within the fields of tourism, events, and sports business management is vital.
The current global economic and business climate requires graduates within these fields to be entrepreneurial and proactive.
The module introduces students to key concepts related to entrepreneurship and new business venture creation, but also considers intrapreneurship and the application of entrepreneurial mindsets within the workplace, as well as dynamic careers where full time employment is complemented by a small entrepreneurial venture.
The module aims to equip students with confidence and a desire to take their exploration of entrepreneurship further.
The module will be delivered using a range of teaching and learning approaches.
This strategy includes contemporary case studies designed to develop an understanding on theory application into practice.
Where relevant, entrepreneurial academics, business start-up graduates, intrapreneurs, entrepreneurs, and industry professionals will be invited to share their knowledge and experience.
Through the formative and summative assessment strategy, students will be encouraged to develop their own approaches to entrepreneurship, business start-up, intrapreneurship and consider entrepreneurial careers.
The module considers entrepreneurship in different country contexts, the social and cultural dimensions of entrepreneurship, case studies from a wide range of tourism, events and sports business sectors, and industry perspectives and examples are included.
Futurology or futures studies, futures research, or futurism is the systematic, interdisciplinary, and holistic study of social and technological advancement, and other environmental trends, often for the purpose of exploring how people will live and work in the future.
In a changing world and industry, highly vulnerable to outbreaks, climate change, political and social unrest, and other highly damaging disruptors, studying the potential futures of tourism, events and sports business management is important.
The purpose of the module is to introduce students to tools and approaches related to the study of tourism, events, and sports futures such as scenario planning.
The skills developed throughout the module will support students navigate their post-graduation and job-hunting period, in their workplace, as well as in their long-term professional development.
The methods studied here can be applied in a wide variety of contexts, from professional to self-development.
The degree program embraces a wide range of assessment types to cater to different learning styles.
These may include individual or group presentations, visual poster presentations, written reports, essays, portfolios, practical work collections, projects, and live event demonstrations.
Additionally, written examinations in certain module settings provide a comprehensive evaluation method for a well-rounded assessment of students' knowledge and skills.
This approach not only accommodates diverse learning preferences but also equips students with a versatile skill set for real-world applications.
The Association for Tourism and Leisure Education and Research (ATLAS) membership recognises institutions that are committed to teaching excellence and outstanding research in tourism and events management.
Membership is open to institutions and professional bodies with educational, research, or professional interests in tourism, leisure, and related areas.
ATLAS members include 1,400 researchers and teachers at 148 universities and research institutes, across 45 countries.
The course is recognised by the Tourism Management Institute (TMI), which is a professional organisation for anyone working in tourism destination management.
TMI’s recognition scheme provides an assurance that a course meets a set of criteria, benchmarks, and standards aligned to the needs of the broadly-defined tourism sector.
This enhances the relevance of courses and the future employment prospects of graduates.
Completion leads to a BSc (Hons) Events Management (with Professional Practice); without the placement, it's a BSc (Hons) Events Management.
Successful completion results in a BSc (Hons) Events Management (International Study Year).
Students can take an optional field trip during the course.
On these trips, you may visit cultural landmarks, engage with partner universities, and experience events within each country.
Previous destinations have included Dublin, Prague, Budapest, and Sri Lanka.
You can also take part in optional study visits throughout the course to events and exhibitions.
Supported by members of the teaching team, the trips and study visits can help to enrich course content and provide an added set of experiences.
Students may be asked to contribute to the costs of these trips, as a percentage or in full.
I loved every minute of my time studying at Lincoln!
The course covered many different, exciting, and informative subjects, and the support and guidance throughout my time studying here was exceptional.
I couldn’t have asked for a better course to study.
Alicia Buckberry
BSc (Hons) Events Management
With a degree in Events Management, students can pursue a variety of exciting career paths across all business sectors, including, entertainment, tourism, sports, leisure, recreation, but can also enjoy careers within not-for-profit organisations, the third sector, and government.
Some of the common roles our students have gone on to work in include: Event Planner/Coordinator, Event Designer, Event Operations Manager, Sponsorship Manager, Event Marketing Manager, Venue Manager, Corporate Event Manager, Non-Profit Event Manager, Festival Director, Conference Organiser, Wedding Planner, Exhibition Manager.
The programme can equip students with practical skills and academic knowledge that are valuable across various industries.
Through career-focused activities, students gain the versatility needed to excel in diverse roles within the events industry.
Our alumni have demonstrated this versatility by securing positions at esteemed organizations such as BCD Meetings & Events, The Occasional Group, The Drill, Doddington Hall, AFC Bournemouth, Marriott Hotels & Resorts, Warwick Castle, Festival Services, Ocado, AELP, RNN Group, Samsung, Worcester Bosch, Liz Hobbs Group, Hilton, and Printworks London, excelling in both traditional event settings and other sectors.
T Level: Merit.
GCSEs:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English and Maths.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/medproub:
Clearing offers from 48-80 UCAS tariff points.
P313
Explore the fundamentals of film-making from narrative right through to post-production, with a degree designed to develop the next generation of innovative filmmakers.
Film Production at Lincoln is taught by award-winning industry practitioners and research-active academics.
The degree offers students the opportunity to gain extensive experience in all areas of the film production process, working with contemporary industry-standard facilities, equipment, and software.
Students can apply for paid work experience with external clients to develop their CV and showreel, and may have the opportunity to learn on professional film sets with industry-active staff.
Facilities include industry-specification cameras; prime lenses; video editing suites with Avid Media Composer, Da Vinci Resolve and Adobe Creative Cloud; audio editing suites with ProTools and Adobe software; digital imaging, design and multi-media suites; a sound dubbing theatre with foley room; a high-end post-production finishing suite with Flame software; writers' room; and production offices.
Explore the fundamentals of film-making from screenwriting through to post-production and delivery, with a degree designed to develop the next generation of innovative filmmakers.
Facilities include industry-specification cameras such as the Arri Alexa; prime lenses; video editing suites with Avid Media Composer, Da Vinci Resolve and Adobe Creative Cloud; audio editing suites with ProTools and Adobe software; digital imaging, design and multi-media suites; a sound dubbing theatre with foley room, a high-end post-production finishing suite, and two fully equipped studios.
Access to industry-standard production facilities and equipment
Learn from award-winning industry practitioners and research-active academics
Opportunity to undertake a work placement to gain real-world experience
Focus on employability to prepare for a career in the creative industries
A vibrant research community
Full range of portable equipment available for filming on location
You can benefit from teaching by industry active professionals such as Dr Mikey Murray, a BAFTA award winning screenwriter and director, specialist factual filmmaker Rachel Scarrott, who has produced content for all of the key terrestrial UK TV channels, or Chris Greybe a post-production specialist and illustrator who has worked for the likes of the BBC and Disney.
The first year introduces students to a range of skills such as directing, producing, screenwriting, cinematography, sound recording, and editing.
Students can explore filmmaking through a variety of projects in a range of genres, while developing an understanding of film theories.
In the second year, students are expected to explore creative areas in greater depth through advanced specialist workshops and a range of filmmaking projects.
A variety of optional theory modules aim to develop students' critical understanding and analytical thinking as they build towards major project outputs in their final year.
Collaborative filmmaking is a key feature of the course, with students working in teams across the programme to produce films.
Throughout the course there is a focus on employability, with the degree aiming to prepare graduates for a career in the screen and creative industries.
Contact time with tutors can be in workshops, practical sessions, seminars, or lectures and may vary from module to module and from academic year to year.
Tutorial sessions and project supervision can take the form of one-to-one engagement or small group sessions, or entire cohort lectures.
Some courses offer the opportunity to take part in external visits, fieldwork or self-acquired industry placements.
There is a high level of group work in Film Production and students will be consistently required to communicate effectively with their peers.
Students on this programme will also learn from academic staff who are engaged in world-leading or internationally recognised research.
In your first year, you can start building and developing skills such as directing, producing, screenwriting, cinematography, sound recording, and editing.
You can also undertake projects which enable you explore filmmaking in a variety of genres, while developing an understanding of film theory.
In the second year, you can begin to forge your own path through the subject and explore creative are in more depth through specialist workshops and a range of filmmaking projects.
A variety of optional theory modules are available to enable you to develop a critical understanding and engage in analytical thinking.
These skills are designed to prepare you for major projects in your third year.
Previous projects have included factual film making, fiction film making, crew rolls on academics' film projects, or supporting on research projects.
There is a high level of group work in across the course with opportunities to collaboratively create films.
There is also a focus on building your employability, and an industry placement module is available in the second year.
As part of this focus on employability, you can gain exposure to professional settings and projects through field trips.
Previous trips have included Aesthetica Film Festival, Indie Lincs International Film Festival, and Pinewood Studios.
Teaching across the course is delivered by industry-active professionals, including Dr Mikey Murray, a BAFTA award winning screenwriter and director, specialist factual filmmaker Rachel Scarrott, who has produced content for all of the key terrestrial UK TV channels, or Chris Greybe a post-production specialist and illustrator who has worked for the likes of the BBC and Disney.
Some modules offer the opportunity to take part in external visits, fieldwork, or self-acquired industry placements.
Our students, Laura and Courtney, share their experience on the Film Production course, including the extra work opportunities that are available, their favourite facilities and studios, the projects they worked on, and how it has allowed them to step into a career after graduating.
This module aims to introduce students to research and development, and the production processes involved in making documentary films.
Students propose, create, and evaluate a short character-based documentary and can explore production roles and team working.
The module also introduces the ethics of documentary filmmaking as well as concepts that define the form.
This module allows students to develop and produce short fiction films (using the screenplays written in Semester A).
It will concentrate on enhancing an understanding of the importance of collaboration and teamwork, as well as delivering tuition in core pre and postproduction techniques.
This module introduces students to the technical aspects of film making.
It will focus on modern film production craft skills required for students to start their journey as contemporary filmmakers.
These skills will include cinematography, audio, and postproduction.
The module content aims to give the students a foundation knowledge of the main Film Production craft skills they will need to complete their practical assignments throughout the programme.
This module continues to develop students to the technical aspects of film making.
It will focus on modern film production craft skills required for students to continue their journey as contemporary filmmakers.
These skills will include cinematography, audio, production design, and postproduction.
The module content aims to give the students a continued foundation knowledge of the main Film Production craft skills they will need to complete their practical assignments throughout the programme.
This module provides an introduction to television studies and focuses on historic and current modes of address, distribution and reception forms and the social function of the medium.
The module supports students in developing the skills to critically read television texts through a range of contexts including the economic, cultural and regulatory.
An understanding of the historical development of the medium in Western contexts will enable students to critically locate television’s place in the present and future media landscape.
This module introduces skills involved in writing for short fiction films.
Students will write two short screenplays.
Throughout the module students will develop an understanding of professional ways of working as a creative and enhance their critical and practical capabilities in relation to screenwriting.
This module involves working in conjunction with the School's in-house agency New Media Lincs and a number of community-based partner organisations, to practise and develop your skills in documentary film production and working with clients.
This module can enable students to further develop skills in film production and apply them to a range of genre projects.
Lectures have been developed to present best practice in production techniques and offer stimulus for idea development in production projects.
Seminars aims to provide a programme of student support for production teams conducting a range of creative projects.
This can include guidance on idea development, the proposal writing process, production critique and script development, as well as the pre- and post production techniques involved in carrying out successful scripts to a conclusion.
Students work in production teams in a range of roles as required by the project assessment briefs.
An in depth look into the practice, theoretical and technical skills of cinematography.
Students will be introduced to the roles of the camera team, lighting team and the grip team.
This module will prepare them to undertake the role of Cinematographer in their graduation films.
This module aims to introduce students to advanced techniques of film editing and creative picture and sound manipulation specifically related to the film production process.
The module will introduce students to the craft of film editing from its widest perspectives, gain an understanding of narrative, story arc and story-telling techniques as well as knowledge of editing in various genres through practical exercises.
The module allows students to understand and develop the skills required to work towards becoming and industry ready film producer.
This module is an advanced level module in the practical screenplay craft, building on skills acquired in Advanced Craft Skills - Screenwriting.
Students will explore the conventions of the feature film screenplay, developing story and scenes for a feature script of their own.
This module further develops students’ skills through use of advanced techniques of sound editing and design for all visual media outputs, such as film, television and screen devices.
Through this, a deeper understanding of the role of the sound editor/sound designer and the audio post-production processes involved at the later stages of completion is achieved.
Students learn how sound is acquired for film and television productions and what happens to the sound after the picture editing is completed.
Students will work with digital audio workstations and software technologies and the sound ‘dubbing theatre’.
Areas covered include synchronising sound and picture rushes, import/export of audio files, supplying audio files for the editing process, audio tracklaying using Digital Audio Workstations (DAW’s), Editing dialogue and speech, recording Foley*, ADR* to picture; recording commentary and narration.
Creative use of music in sound post-production is also covered, including composer spotting sessions, selecting and using production music and assessing musical requirements.
The roles of mixer, assistant and sound editor are explored, in relation to selecting and assembling sound recordings and producing different mixes in preparation for final sound production of a television programme, film or screen based output.
Students will understand the distinctive role of the film, television and screen sound editor and the creative sound post-production process for all moving image productions.
(*The art of movement re-recording and using props for sound effects creation to picture)
(*Automated Dialogue Replacement)
This module investigates and analyses the debates about and developments in children’s film and television in the UK, US and beyond, and is informed by politics, philosophy and ideology.
This module explores the history and theory of the documentary film.
It will introduce students to media texts (films, video, broadcast television and digital platforms) that claim, in distinction to the cinema of fiction, to capture and re-present unmediated – to one degree or another-- reality.
Students on this module will be asked to consider, via close text analysis and an understanding of moving image history, the problematics of making such a claim.
This will involve students investigating the nature of the documentary image – that is: the relationship of the signifier to the thing signified.
It will require them to determine the ethical implications of documentary’s claim on the real for the filmmaker, the persons filmed and the spectators.
It will engage them in debates about documentary’s impact in the social sphere.
The module will be organised around a series of case studies.
Students will gain an understanding of media texts that have had a significant impact on society, knowledge of history and theory of documentary, and skills in close text reading and historical reception studies.
Seminars aim to provide a programme of student support for production teams conducting a range of creative projects.
A guide to specific films and accompanying theoretical concepts.
Key films provide a platform for debating the political, institutional and cultural context of individual cinemas and regions in an increasingly globalised industry where audiences and producers are exposed to a variety of film styles.
Critical engagement and debate are encouraged within the broader structure of World Cinema, alongside cultural and globalisation studies.
The Minnesota State University Moorhead USA Exchange Programme is an optional unit of study.
As part of the three-year course, some students may study for the duration of Semester A of level 2 at Minnesota State University Moorhead USA.
The target units of study include areas of practical and theoretical studies comparable with those of Level 2 study for the Media Production Award at Lincoln.
During the semester abroad, students will share classes and units of study with local students.
Students can experience another culture and have the opportunity to examine USA media industry practice through optional internships for exchange students.
The Moorhead-Fargo twin cities also offer practical opportunities for students to engage with USA production companies including NBC, Fox, ABC, CBS, and Prairie Public TV, all of whom have local bases.
The module aims to introduce you to a range of conceptual and theoretical approaches to the study of horror in popular culture.
It explores the history of the genre and selected subgenres as well as contemporary manifestations, both supernatural, and realist horror.
The module looks at the horror genre in terms of various social, cultural and national contexts.
Students can study psychoanalytical approaches to these fictions as well as approaches such as affect theory which attempt to go beyond psychoanalysis.
Through lectures, screenings and discussions, students are encouraged to apply these approaches to the analysis of selected media texts and subgenres.
This module aims to encourage students to consider the options open to them upon graduation and prepare for life after university.
Students have the opportunity to reach into the wider community to develop their skills for future employment.
The module aims to enable students to closely examine how a range of film production companies function on a day to day basis and relate their experience to their studies.
This module is an advanced level module in the practical screenplay craft.
Students will produce and pitch finished short screenplays and begin to explore the conventions of the feature film screenplay.
Location sound recording is a critical component of the film-making process.
Ranging from the practical aspects such as multichannel field recording and microphone types, to understanding on-set etiquette and working with actors, it is a hugely challenging technical and artistic craft.
Students will learn how separate and synchronous sound is utilised in film production and how to effectively capture dialogue for factual and fiction productions.
This module will equip students with the essential skills needed to provide filmmakers with high quality production sound.
This module aims to develop an understanding of the complex problem of realism in film and media studies as it relates to fictional narrative forms.
Students will have the opportunity to engage with academic debates around realist texts and examine these in relation to historical, contemporary and potential examples.
This module will give students an advanced theoretical understanding of the craft skills employed in film production through observation and analysis of the work of pioneering filmmakers.
This module marks the culmination of three years of practical development through production work.
Students will either collaborate on substantial short film products in a clearly defined head of department role or write a feature length film screenplay.
This module aims to prepare students for their Graduation Project and develops the skills required for writing their Practice-Led Thesis.
This module provides students with a unique opportunity to engage in practice as research alongside their graduation project.
It forms the final output of the student for graduation and will take the form of a written thesis that reflects on their artefacts from both a theoretical and contextual perspective.
This module can enable students to deepen their understanding of the environments and contexts of the film industries and to consider wider issues such as copyright, ethics, law and regulation.
This can enable students to develop their awareness in these areas in order to understand complexities of the professional landscape when they leave university.
The module provides students with the opportunity to prepare effectively and professionally for life in the film industries after university, exploring potential careers and options.
Artefact creation led, this module is unique in allowing students to choose the style and content of their outputs.
Particular emphasis is also placed on peer review in the assessment.
At Lincoln we are passionate about sustainability, and that's why we offer out Film Production students the opportunity to work towards the BAFTA albert.
This is a certification on sustainability in film and TV that you can work towards as part of a module in your first year at no extra cost.
Enhance your camera skills and boost your employability by undertaking our accredited training in ARRI camera systems and gain an ARRI Academy Certificate.
Examples of assessment methods that are used include coursework, such as written assignments, reports or dissertations; and practical elements, such as presentations, video essays or filmmaking outputs.
There are no exams on BA (Hons) Film Production and we aim to ensure that staff return in-course assessments to students promptly.
Our students proudly showcase their graduation projects where they truly belong, on the big screen at the Everyman Cinema, Lincoln.
This event celebrates their remarkable journey, bringing together staff, students, friends, and family to honour the successes and achievements of the past three years.
We also host our annual industry awards presentation and Arri Certification awards during the event.
This is the celebration and send-off our students have earned.
Alongside the variety of options on the course, which enable you to discover which industry roles suit you best, Lincoln as a city has opportunities for media-based work experience.
Zuzanna Zyla
BA (Hons) Film Production
There is an opportunity for students to take an industry placement module during the second year of their studies.
Placements can be wide and varied and should be secured by the students themselves, although support from staff is available.
Placements on the course are optional and may incur additional costs to participating students.
We have also built links with location matching service, LocationLincs, and production company, Keal Productions .
This relationship has led to students gaining valuable internships and in some cases even full-time employment.
Through our links to the British Film Institute, we also run a BFI Film Academy Specialist Course in cinematography.
Although this is not available to degree students, it highlights the high regard in which the BFI hold the University of Lincoln.
Take a look at some of the locations around Lincoln that have been featured in mainstream film and television.
This course prepares students for exciting and diverse careers such as working in production companies and creative media start-up businesses, or as freelance craft specialists.
Previous graduates have gone on to work as production secretaries or runners on programmes such as Britain's Got Talent, gained employment in post-production houses including Envy Post-production, Bumblebee Post-Production, Zinc Media, and Studio Lambert, or moved into roles in marketing or set design.
Some may choose to continue their studies at postgraduate level or take a qualification in teaching.
Graduates and alumni have also gained numerous successes in film festivals, Royal Television Society (RTS) awards, and award schemes.
Here's a taster of our latest Graduate Films by students on the BA Film Production degree.
Additional cost to students are likely during the creation of their film production projects, and may also apply during the optional study abroad or work placement pathways.
Tuition fees for the USA study abroad exchange opportunity are included in the course but travel, accommodation, and general living costs are the responsibility of the student.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/ftvftvub:
PW36
Film and television inform, entertain, reflect, and also shape society, and this course examines the power behind these key mediums.
This course at Lincoln is a theoretically oriented critical studies degree, enhanced by opportunities for creative and professional development.
It gives students the opportunity to undertake practical work, enabling them to deepen their understanding of the critical issues and key concepts of the discipline.
The course is taught by research-active staff working on a diverse range of topics, including the documentary, heritage cinema, children's film and TV, representations of difference, Hollywood, and marginal cinemas.
Meanwhile, practical modules are delivered by active media professionals using industry-standard facilities and equipment.
Access to industry-standard facilities and equipment
Learn from staff who are media practitioners with links to industry
Opportunity to take part in an exchange programme in Europe or the USA
Hear from guest speakers from across the film and media industries
You will have the opportunity to learn and develop through lectures, workshops, seminars, group projects, screenings, research, and an independent study.
In the first year, this degree provides an overview of the theory, history, and analysis of film and television.
It offers a theoretically informed introduction to film and TV practice.
An increasing number of optional modules in the second year enables students to forge their own path according to their research and creative interests.
In their third and final year, students are expected to complete an independent study and will continue to curate their own path by selection between optional critical studies and critical practice modules.
This module offers an opportunity to study and apply a wide range of methods of textual analysis to film and television texts.
Through group discussion and seminar exercises students can develop a fluency in these analytical methods.
This is underpinned by a range of complementary subjects which act as an introduction to the critical approaches taken in year two of the programme.
For more than a century, film has been understood variously as a technology, an art form, an industry, a means of communicating ideas, and as source of popular entertainment.
In this module, students can consider the many ways in which films have been made and experienced, and have the opportunity to learn about different approaches to studying the history of film, looking at case studies from Hollywood, Europe, and beyond.
This module aims to introduce practical techniques, using multi-camera studio methods.
Basic production organisation, script and planning methods are developed alongside critical and analytical discussions to devise creative ideas and content for an identified television audience.
Students will also broaden their working knowledge of health and safety and ethical issues relevant to broadcast production.
Students will have the opportunity to examine the political, commercial and cultural determinants behind the history, current organisation, and potential futures of the UK audiovisual production environment, including how it relates to the US and Europe.
This module is concerned with the cultural construction of womanhood, the 'female' and notions of femininity: the economic and cultural value of the female film star to Hollywood, the development of female film genres or the feminization of certain genres, how debates about female identity inform models of spectatorship, with respect to both psychoanalysis and ethnography.
This module sets out to explore some of the ways in which we make, sense, and transform ourselves and our worlds through our sonic and auditory cultures.
We will focus on a number of important phenomena in our consideration of sonic practices, ways of hearing and contemporary scholarship on the auditory dimensions of media.
Designed to engage both Media Studies and Sound and Music Production students in their respective fields, we will move from discussions of sound in relation to the affective capacities of the body through discussion of audition in relation to space and place (focused through the concept of the ‘soundscape’).
We will consider discussions of sound and technology and explore concepts and phenomena of ‘noise’ and ‘silence’ in sonic and musical experience.
This module encourages collaborative research in the spirit of ‘Student as Producer’, the organizing principle of teaching and learning in the university.
This module aims to support students’ understanding and use of English language in the context of the media, and thereby enhance their ability to meet the demands of academic study at the University of Lincoln.
The Klagenfurt Erasmus Exchange Programme is an optional module of study for the award of the BA Film & Television degree.
As part of the three-year course, some students may study for the duration of Term 1 of Level 2 at the University of Klagenfurt, Austria.
The target modules of study include areas of practical and theoretical studies comparable with those of Level 2 study for the Film & Television award at Lincoln.
During the term abroad, Lincoln students will be based in the Institute of Media and Communication Studies and will share classes and modules of study with peers from Austria and other European countries.
Not only will students be living and socialising in another culture, providing opportunities to study their respective countries, they will also have an opportunity to engage, free-of-charge, in an intensive German-language module for three weeks before term begins (although academic and practice teaching and learning will be in the medium of English for Lincoln exchange students, except in rare instances when a student may be fluent in German).
The Minnesota State University Moorhead USA Exchange Programme is an optional module for the award of the BA Film and Television Degree.
As part of the three-year course, some students may study for the duration of Term 1 of level 2 at Minnesota State University Moorhead USA.
The target units of study include areas of practical and theoretical studies comparable with those of Level 2 study for the Film and Television Award at Lincoln.
Not only will students be living and socialising in another 'culture' providing opportunities to study their respective countries, they may also have an opportunity to examine USA media industry practice through optional Internships for exchange students.
The Moorhead-Fargo twin cities also offer practical opportunities for students to engage with USA production companies including, Fox, ABC and Prairie Public TV (PBS), all of whom have local bases.
•	This module will investigate the Hollywood musical as one of Hollywood’s most popular and important film genres, from its beginnings in the early sound era to the integrated musicals of the 1940s and 1950s, from critically acclaimed box office successes such as West Side Story (1961) and cultural phenomena such as Saturday Night Fever (1977) and Dirty Dancing (1987) to more recent musicals such as Moulin Rouge!
(2001), Dreamgirls (2006), La La Land (2016), and Mamma Mia!
Here We Go Again (2018).
A close study of a number of significant films and associated scholarly literature will support discussion of structural, stylistic and thematic issues.
Stardom and the function of the star performance will be considered and ethnicity, race, sexuality, class and gender as constructed through the musical will be analysed.
This module enables students to challenge conventions within a large-scale studio project that significantly stretches and challenges their individual and group skillset.
The module will see students following through with the experiences from Semester A and put these into practice here.
Students, with the confidence and experience gained at level 4 are asked now to take a stronger creative stand on their work in planning and forming a largescale piece of practice.
The key critical skills are used to help build up individual research and development skills, helping to demonstrate the student’s thinking in the employment of their large studio and project-facing role.
Through a critical examination of contemporary factual television and online culture, this module aims to show that this can be understood as having been dramatically reconfigured in recent years by socio-political and commercial pressures and their associated entertainment values and changing discourses of selfhood.
In this module students will explore how the consumption of televisual content has evolved and been transformed in the era of streaming platforms, catch up TV, interactivity, personalisation, and audience fragmentation.
In the 21st century we no longer believe that a single unified world can be visualized from a privileged position.
Any sense of distance from the world has collapsed.
We are conscious of living in a time of continual change and transformation as opposed to a state of equilibrium.
After all, the early 21st century has been marked by rising urbanism, the movements of people, the crisis of global warming, the dominance of ever more complex logistical networks, the emergence of new cultures of speed, experiments with new modes of warfare, etc.
This is a confusing situation – simultaneously liberating, exciting, anarchic and dangerous.
We are traversed and overwhelmed by these affective forces.
This innovative module, in which students collaborate to produce film essays, presents an opportunity to reassess aesthetic theories and practices – our modes of visualizing - in order to confront the conditions of the present.
A 10,000-word dissertation is the culmination of the student's undergraduate investigation into the structures and debates surrounding cultural production and takes the form of an extended essay.
Regular support and supervision ensures that the chosen subject facilitates involvement with issues relevant to contemporary media practice.
Animation is a malleable form: it can portray bodies in blurred motion and extraordinary feats, frame by frame.
Animation is limitless and all pervasive, transcending genres, distorting genders and having the power to dissect stereotypes.
Gender can be constructed and deconstructed, narratives can transcend the confines that might limit live action cinema.
The idea of animation as a genre of film continues to be contested, it demands its own medium and a plethora of genres within that medium.
With its ability to inform and revolutionise, animation is ever-evolving and can educate, but also perpetuate inequalities of power through its depictions of difference, disability and the stigmas attached to such representations.
Animation bends and contorts, it ventures far beyond the confines of children’s entertainment into the realms of horror, documentary, pornography, etc.
It gives us astonishing insights into identity through its figuration, configuration and reconfiguration of the body, otherness, erasure, power and punishment.
This module will introduce students to theories of identity, difference, diaspora, the body and the disabled self and apply these to key animation texts and directors, through a series of lectures and seminars.
Learners will debate concepts, characters and ideas about difference throughout this module, using identity theories as markers of understanding, and produce an essay that is enriched by what they have discovered.
This module provides an opportunity to explore the entanglements of human bodies with media devices and processes.
With and through media technologies, we transform the body and our understanding of bodily life.
Today, this has become so obvious that the distinction between ourselves, machines and other species has been rendered problematic.
Some insist on the need to defend the body against the encroachment of media and cybernetic systems.
But perhaps the body has always already been mediated?
Seizing upon this problematic, theorists, artists and media practitioners have converged upon a preoccupation with speculation upon the present and future condition of the mediatized human body.
Examines the cultural significance of so-called exploitation films, which can reveal (and revel in) themes, images and narratives suppressed from the mainstream, dealing with lurid, scandalous subjects in a seemingly excessive, gratuitous manner.
Some theorists argue that perceived ‘excess’ is a foundation for developing new critical methods, providing a fascinating alternative to approaches more comfortably contained within ‘classical’ systems.
Cinema is an integral part of our culture and tells us about society; like any cultural product, cinema does not exist in a vacuum.
It communicates ideas, value systems and cultural beliefs, desires, dreams, anxieties, fears and needs of a given society at a given time, and it does so through different constructions of gender, sexualities, whiteness, ethnicity, race, age, social class and cultures.
Taking into account a broad range of films and genres (from rom-com, drama and erotic thriller, to animation, musical, neo-noir, action and sci-fi), as well as a variety of  theoretical approaches from (but not limited to) feminist film theory, philosophy, post-feminism, psychoanalysis, stardom and cultural studies; and combining textual analysis with background reading, this module will examine and critically evaluate a range of Hollywood films produced and released in the 1980s addressing the relations between their textual form and their cultural context.
One advanced concept-led project or project portfolio using technologies centred upon Single Camera, Multi Camera or Scriptwriting; an opportunity to produce practical work to an advanced level of creativity and to undertake interdisciplinary production with students on other School courses as appropriate.
The purpose of this module is to examine and critically compare the different representations of journalists to be found in film and assess the relation between these portrayals and continuing moral and political issues faced by the profession.
The module expects students to study movies in which journalists are portrayed as leading characters.
Moving images have explored madness, the real, nightmares and fantasy since the beginning of cinema.
Mad scientists from Caligari and Rotwang through Dr Gogol to Rick Sanchez have wreaked havoc, reconfigured the human body, opened portals into new dimensions and ushered in devastating social change.
Films have told stories of men driving women into insanity in pursuit of power, fame and glory.
Bodies that have challenged arbitrary norms or misfit with normative spatial arrangements have been represented as psychotic killers, extra-terrestrial monsters and subhuman beasts.
This module explores representations of madness in cinema to explore attitudes to mental health via a mix of interdisciplinary theoretical frameworks in a variety of national cinema settings and in a range of genres and registers, from classical Hollywood horror through European auteur cinema to digitally distributed transnational quality long form drama.
When studying contemporary media, the rapid pace of technological change can pose a problem for those of us hoping to find some clarity or surety within a dense and often overwhelming media landscape.
To study the media of today effectively, therefore, we must also look to the media of the past.
In this module, we will accordingly unearth various examples of forgotten, neglected, or underappreciated pre-twentieth century media, discovering how concepts, problems, and debates that still define the discourse surrounding media design and usage today have their origins in much older technological systems, whilst simultaneously challenging the assumptions that have underpinned traditional histories of media.
This module analyses the range and diversity of a genre encompassing many highly popular texts.
Metaphor and allegory are explored to understand how science fiction has been appreciated and has developed from cult to mainstream acceptance and popularity.
Innovation and cross-fertilisation of generic forms are also be considered.
This module surveys and assesses a period that represents a break with a range of ideological, aesthetic and commercial traditions together with a process of retrenchment and recuperation.
Post-classical Hollywood saw both films and the industry experience ideological and socio-cultural upheaval, demonstrated through cinematic modes of representation, industrial re-structuring and artistic transformations.
Varied modes of assessment are used on this programme, including critical essays, presentations, and viewing logs.
Practical work is assessed by experienced media industry professionals.
There are no formal examinations on the course.
You'll have access to industry-standard production facilities including television studios, video editing suites, a writers’ room, and a 20-seat 4K screening room.
There's also a cinema-style viewing environment with a high resolution 4k projector.
Students currently have free access to Adobe Creative Cloud software via our media and design labs.
Many academic staff in the Lincoln School of Film, Media and Journalism are current media practitioners who are engaged with professional bodies, such as the Royal Television Society; the British Society of Cinematographers; and the British Association of Film, Television and Screen Studies; ensuring that course content is informed by the latest industry developments.
Some conduct research alongside teaching and the School is home to a community of researchers exploring questions about culture, consumption, creativity, and communication, consistently pushing the boundaries of media research.
Students also have the opportunity to hear from visiting guest speakers from many parts of the Film and TV industries.
The Lincoln School of Film, Media and Journalism runs exchange programmes with partner institutions in the USA, Canada, and Europe.
These give students the opportunity to experience and learn about other cultures.
Those who choose to do this are responsible for covering their own travel, accommodation, and general living costs.
Our graduates may go on to employment in exhibition and curation, media journalism, marketing and PR, media management, and a variety of production-related roles in film, TV, and the creative industries.
They may also go into teaching or academic careers via postgraduate study.
Project costs can vary depending on the nature of the practical work chosen by the student.
Students are asked to consider costs when proposing a project.
Study Abroad Outside of Europe
Exchange students applying to study outside of Europe do not pay tuition fees at their host university.
Participants will usually be responsible for all other costs themselves, including travel, accommodation, visas, insurance, vaccinations, and administrative fees at the host institution.
Students going on exchange keep their entitlement to UK sources of funding such as student loans and should apply to their awarding body in the normal way, indicating that they will be studying abroad.
If your time away is a mandatory part of your degree programme, you may be entitled to extra funding.
You should ask your funding body about this.
You may also be able to apply to your LEA or the SAAS for further funding to assist with travel expenses - contact them to enquire.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/artartub:
W101
Fine Art focuses on the artist as a socially responsive, publicly-aware practitioner, operating within physical, intellectual, and digital networks and referencing local, national, and global artistic platforms.
At Lincoln, the Fine Art programme offers the expertise and environment to nurture students' creative development and expression.
It aims to enable students to extend their creative work and ideas into new areas.
This includes opportunities to engage with students across the School of Creative Arts on site specific and interdisciplinary projects.
It also offers specialist options in areas of applied fine art practices, such as teaching, health and community engagement, professional placements, and study abroad.
A range of artists and professionals are also invited to deliver guest lectures and tutorials as part of the School's visiting artists' programme.
Recent speakers include Assemble (2015 Turner Prize Winners), Mark Titchner, Jordan Baseman, Cath Keay, and Joshua Sofaer.
The programme explores contemporary art that moves within and beyond the traditional gallery to embrace a range of non-traditional sites, with assessments designed to prepare students for professional life.
The course emphasises individual creativity and artistic intelligence, and aims to introduce students to the fields of Live Art, installation and digital media, as well as catering for painting, sculpture, drawing, and printmaking.
Students on the course are introduced to a range of professional and transferable skills and have the opportunity to work both with and beyond a dynamic studio culture.
The course aims to enable students to extend their creative work and ideas into new areas.
At Lincoln, you can benefit from staff expertise, and an environment designed to nurture your creative development and expression.
With specialist options and opportunities to collaborate with other students across the School of Creative Arts, you can extend your creative work into new and exciting areas.
Across the course you can also build a range of professional transferable skills that you can hone within out purpose-built studios.
Staff include practising artists and writers with international reputations
Visiting artists deliver guest lectures and tutorials
Access to studios, workshops, and an on-campus public gallery
Join study visits to destinations in the UK and abroad
Opportunities to exhibit your work
*Complete University Guide 2025 (out of 84 ranking institutions).
In the first year, students are encouraged to experiment with traditional media, digital practices, and live art in order to identify key areas of personal interest.
This is alongside receiving a solid grounding in exploring the creative arts as a wider interdisciplinary concern integrated within gaining key academic core competencies.
The second year aims to guide students in the development of their individual practices.
There are also opportunities to collaborate with other students from across the School of Creative Arts within interdisciplinary and off-site projects.
In the third year, professional practice modules offer students the ability to refine their individual development and reflective practice, culminating in their final-year degree shows.
Methods of delivery on the Fine Art programme vary from module to module and may include lectures to larger cohorts, seminars with smaller groups, guided workshops across the University's facilities, and focused studio tutoring in both group and one-to-one situations.
The programme explores contemporary art that moves within and beyond the traditional gallery to embrace a range of non-traditional sites.
There is an emphasis on individual creativity and artistic intelligence, and an aim to introduce you to the fields of Live Art, installation, and digital media, as well as catering for painting, sculpture, drawing, and printmaking.
Teaching methods vary from module to module and may include lectures to larger cohorts, seminars with smaller groups, guided workshops across the University's facilities, and focused studio tutoring in both group and one-to-one situations.
Across the course you can study specialist options in areas of applied fine art practices, such as teaching, health and community engagement, professional placements, and study abroad.
In the first year, you can experiment with traditional media, digital practices, and live art in order to identify key areas of personal interest.
This is alongside building a solid grounding in exploring the creative arts as a wider interdisciplinary concern and gaining key academic core competencies.
The second year aims to guide you in the development of your individual practices.
There may also be opportunities to collaborate with other students from across the School of Creative Arts within interdisciplinary and off-site projects.
In the third year, you can undertake a professional practice modules designed to give you the chance to refine your individual development and reflective practice, culminating in their final-year degree shows.
Bodily Encounters focuses on expanded notions of the body, to include both human and non-human bodies, technologies, and environments.
Students will have the opportunity to work with a range of media, materials and practices, provocations, processes and potential outcomes to produce their own Finished Artworks focusing on their own experience of embodiment.
The module will study  precedents of embodiment in art practice and focus on bodies and their creation and transformation  through a series of skills workshops underpinned by a contextual element exploring what bodies can do through contemporary art.
Workshops will include collectively creating new sustainable, inclusive and accessible work spaces within the fine art studios or outside, for example expanding on our pigment and dye garden, and examining and reevaluating our maintenance labour.
Frameworks is a practical module that offers experience in developing processes for working to produce art in dialogue with, and in response to, notions of 'the public'.
It highlights the programme's technical facilities and offers professional skills in the production of an arts practice, and the capture, composition and creation of digital documentation to accompany artistic output.
The module is partly based in the studio but also operates across the wider University campus in order to engage with its diverse publics and spaces.
Students  experiment with making artwork in response to the module's theme, and receive training in technical equipment and software through demonstrations.
Studio-based teaching and learning is also key to Frameworks, and students will engage in one-to-one and group tutorials, group crits, and other activities to enable the development of a professional arts practice.
Material Entanglements 1 provides students with the opportunity to concentrate on developing their artistic practice to produce artwork while broadening and strengthening the documentation of their art.
The module concludes with an exhibition that marks the half-way point of the degree.
The module continues the dialogue between identity and practice begun in Frameworks and Bodily Encounters in Year 1.
Examining the impact of politics, environment and social change, it asks how these public dialogues can influence the bodies and identities of artists, and how artists are able to make use of these impacts in their art.
The module also engages with modes of exchange, current climates and artistic identities within global contemporary art.
In this module, students are expected to develop, finish and exhibit signature artworks in a gallery or negotiated venue appropriate to their practice.
The module aims to support the student in creating a professional representation of their practice in the media(s) of their choice.
Refining and consolidating students' practical specialisms, the module situates individual practice at its core.
Staff supervise and support students to focus on the fundamentals of making in terms of criticality, process and materials to produce finished artworks for a professional public exhibition.
Students work together in organising and promoting the exhibition and accompanying digital catalogue.
Locating Practice is an exploration of gallery, studio, and site-based approaches to Fine Art, either in studio/gallery settings or in the City of Lincoln and beyond.
This Module develops the practical and theoretical dialogues studied in levels 1 and 2 and develops them in preparation for the creation of art in the wider physical world inside and/or beyond the traditional Gallery.
The module aims to prepare students for the demands and timescales of independent practice and its professional evaluation.
Subjects include Audio, Art and The City, The Gallery and the Studio, Walking and Performance as Art, Pervasive Media and Digital Practices, the Located Body and Evaluating Practice.
Assessment will include finished artworks and documentation, presentations, essays, catalogues, and evaluations.
We also utilise a unique Statement of Process format within many modules that allows for an interesting digital submission of your ideas in interactive form.
This aims to equip you for professional portfolio development and effective skills articulation from the beginning of your course through to graduation.
Exhibition of student work by Luke Pietnik.
People viewing a showcase of student work by Paige Whittaker.
Student work by Mark Chamberlain exhibited on campus.
A range of artists and professionals are invited to deliver guest lectures and tutorials as part of the Lincoln School of Creative Arts' visiting artists programme.
Recent speakers include Heath Bunting, Matthew Burrows MBE, Rachel Garfield, E tcétera , Joy Sleeman, and JJ Chan.
R ecent Turner Prize winners Assemble and nominees Forensic Architecture have also visited the University and presented on their practice.
Academic staff are often practising artists and writers with national and international reputations, such as Dr Steve Klee whose work has been shown at LAM Gallery, Los Angeles; Dr Alice Bell whose work is on display at Oxford Circus and has collaborated on projects with Damien Hirst and Sir Peter Blake among others; Andrew Bracey whose solo exhibitions include Nottingham Castle, Manchester Art Gallery, Transition Gallery, and Firstsite, Colchester; and Martin Lang whose work has been selected for exhibition by Turner Prize artist, Dexter Dalwood and has also exhibited alongside Tracey Emin, Laure Prouvost, Marcus Caotes, and Adam Chodzko.
All Fine Art students have access to studios and workshops, as well as the University’s on-campus public gallery, Project Space Plus, where students regularly exhibit their work.
Students can make use of software that supports their documentation and practice, and have access to photography, video, and audio facilities; acrylic resist etching, digital imagery, and screen printing equipment; and facilities for wood, metal, plaster, plastics, and resin work.
Students on this course may have the opportunity to undertake field trips.
Mandatory field trip costs are covered by the University but optional study visits, to locations such as Venice, are at your own expense.
In the past, students have enjoyed a fully-funded trip to Dartington to work collaboratively with other students from the Lincoln School of Creative Arts.
Students are encouraged to take advantage of the networks and connections that they may be brought into contact with during their studies.
Recent successes as a consequence of Fine Art's networks have seen students gain residencies at the Art House in Wakefield, Mansions of the Future in Lincoln, and the Surface Gallery in Nottingham.
Work from BA (Hons) Fine Art students support the healing and recovery of patients as it is integrated into Lincolnshire Partnership NHS Foundation Trust’s (LPFT) multi-million pound regeneration of the city’s mental health wards.
Throughout my three years, I was challenged, supported, and believed in.
This course has an equal balance in educating you within the arts while developing your practice as an artist.
The support and the design of the course makes the idea of working professionally as an artist a reality.
Sophie Baker
BA (Hons) Fine Art
Lincoln’s Fine Art degree aims to empower students to develop technical, critical, and professional skills.
It aims to prepare students to enter careers throughout the creative industries.
This may include working as freelance artists, curators, administrators, and writers, as well as roles in art therapy and teaching.
Successful applicants will be invited to an interview, where they will have the opportunity to go through their portfolio with a member of the academic team.
If you are invited for an interview you will have the opportunity to show a traditional and/or digital portfolio with you.
This will form the basis for a discussion of your current interests in Fine Art and how you would like to develop your ideas and practice at Lincoln.
You will need to clearly describe and explain the work you bring with you.
Interviews are designed to make sure we're right for you, and you are right for us.
We understand they can be daunting, but try not to worry.
A range of work is useful, but as a guide we would recommend that your portfolio should consist of no more than 10 to 15 pieces.
We'd like to see a range of images and examples of video, audio, or photographic work as applicable to the work you have made.
Most students will need to buy materials appropriate to their practice.
These might include (but are not limited to): paint, wood, and other relevant materials.
Materials costs for this course will depend on the medium you choose to work in, but will typically range from between £100 and £500 per year.
Students may benefit from a range of subsidised study trips (which include transport, accommodation and admission charges as appropriate), activities, and events which aim to benefit and enhance their studies and practices.
Optional study trips may also be available, and the full costs of these will be incurred by the student where offered.
These range from approximately £20 for a day trip to £400 for an international trip of between three and five days.
All costs incurred need to be paid upfront.
Participation in study trips is not graded.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/chmfrsub:
F1F4
Forensic chemistry is the application of scientific knowledge and investigation to law enforcement.
From identifying substances to analysing crime scenes, the skills of a forensic chemist often play a vital role in criminal investigations.
The course provides students with the opportunity to develop the skills of a professional forensic chemist, including laboratory examination, report writing, crime scene analysis and courtroom presentation.
With a broad spectrum of modules, it is possible to specialise in areas such as DNA analysis, biological chemistry, or nuclear forensics.
The School of Chemistry takes a research-centred approach to teaching and learning, and students have the chance to work closely with leading academics on collaborative research projects.
Subject area at Lincoln ranked top 10 in the UK for student satisfaction*
*Complete University Guide 2025 (out of 36 ranking institutions)
The first year offers a solid foundation in chemistry, including laboratory work and mathematics and statistics, as well as the principles of forensic science and crime scene investigation.
In their second year, students go on to explore advanced aspects of forensic chemistry and are introduced to key areas of advanced crime scene methods and trace evidence, before tailoring the course to match their interests with a range of modules in their third year.
This module is concerned with the skills required to protect, record, process and interpret a crime scene.
Emphasis is placed on the role of crime scene investigation in the ‘forensic process’.
The process of crime scene investigation is examined from scene preservation and recording (e.g.
sketches and photography) to evidence recovery, packaging and documentation.
The need for avoidance of contamination of the crime scene and for the subsequent continuity and integrity of the recovered evidence form an integral component of the module.
This module will explain the process of forensic practice within the laboratory, including areas such as chain of custody, contemporaneous note taking, standard operating procedures and quality control.
The module is therefore built around the principle that high quality forensic scientific evidence is not only about employing sound scientific methodology but is also dependent on the rigour of the procedures employed and the accurate reporting of results.
It will also look to develop a range of transferable skills relating to scientific literature retrieval, understanding, and presentation, and allow students to further develop their mathematical and statistical skills.
This module builds on the Crime Scene Investigation module and focuses on the application of advanced techniques for the detection, recovery, analysis and interpretation of a wide range of evidence found at a crime scene.
Students can further develop their understanding of the role and responsibilities of the crime scene manager and the investigation of complex crime scenes, including key specialists and agencies to be involved.
Within this context students will look at the need to follow ISO accredited procedures and the latest up to date working practices within crime scene investigation.
As part of the module students are expected to undertake the examination of a complex crime scene.
This module is designed to develop an understanding of the importance of marks and trace materials, such as hair, fibres, glass, footwear and latent fingermarks, as evidence, their detection, recovery, analysis and the interpretation of results gained from these.
The issues of transfer and persistence of such materials is also highlighted and the need to consider this throughout the above processes.
Students will have the opportunity to be introduced to microscopy and analytical procedures and techniques relevant to the analysis of marks and traces evidence.
This module aims to provide students with an appreciation of regulation and quality assurance in forensic science and the role of the Forensic Science Regulator in this – key concepts in modern forensic science.
Students will apply the method validation tools from previous modules to evaluate forensic data within a quality context.
Students will also develop skills in the retrieval, critical review and communication of scientific literature and other published work.
This module provides a context for the chemical, physiological and analytical content introduced at levels 4 and 5.
It deciphers the complex and dynamic world context of Drugs of Abuse and intrinsic challenges faced by analytical chemists.
It also covers the legislation of controlled substances and chemical precursors as well as the different classes of drugs.
Additionally, the synthesis of illicit drugs will be explored to gain an understanding of how this knowledge can be used in drug profiling.
The module also covers the ante and post-mortem toxicology of drugs, relates dose to physiological effect as well as consider appropriate samples and analytical strategies used in forensic toxicology.
Supporting and illustrating these concepts, students can undertake the role of an analytical chemist in investigative practical activities which will cover best practice in Drug of Abuse and Toxicology laboratory analyses.
If it wasn’t for the University of Lincoln, I would not be working for one of the best global pharmaceutical companies in the world.
Shantae Kaur Rayat
CMC Regulatory Affairs Associate at AstraZeneca
Forensic Chemistry graduates benefit from specialist skills and technical knowledge that are transferable to careers in chemistry, forensic laboratories, and law enforcement organisations, such as police forces, HMRC, and environmental health.
Some graduates go on to study at postgraduate level.
BTEC Extended Diploma in Applied Science or Forensic Science*: Distinction, Merit, Merit .
GCSE's:   Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English, Maths and Science.
BTEC Extended Diploma: DMM Forensic and Criminal Investigation accepted.
Applied Science accepted depending on modules.
Please include units on application.
T Level in Science: Merit Overall  (Health or Health Science not accepted)

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/chmfrsum:
F1F5
This course offers a comprehensive study of chemistry integrated with forensic specialisms, including DNA analysis, biological chemistry, and forensic toxicology, so that students can develop an in-depth understanding of forensic chemistry and fundamental science.
On the MChem, the study experience is extended through a full-year industrial placement which may be with one of the University's industry or overseas partners, or in one of our research groups.
Students are supported when finding and undertaking a placement.
The School of Chemistry takes a research-centred approach to teaching and learning, and students have the chance to work with academics on collaborative research projects.
In this module students have the opportunity to develop an in-depth understanding of the fate of toxins within the human body and the analysis of biological specimens that builds upon the knowledge gained from modules previously studied.
Laboratory work will be based upon case work and the development of new methods providing a realistic experience of the role of the forensic toxicologist in legal cases.
Use of external practitioners, laboratory visits and specialist equipment aim to further add to this experience and strengthen the opportunity for employment in this highly competitive field.
Laboratory problems will be less directed and aim to further develop skills in teamwork and independent learning.
Students are also expected to develop skills in interpretation of results and presentation in court, as expected for a professional forensic toxicologist within the present legal system.
New method development will be backed up by consideration of research developments across all aspects of the field.
This inter-disciplinary module introduces the biology, physics, and chemistry behind some the most common and emerging sensors used in analytical science and their mode of action.
The special challenges of bioanalytical methods provides a modern context for specific sensor development and case studies will be presented from forensic, pharmaceutical and healthcare contexts for development of sensors.
Students have the opportunity to develop knowledge in the physics and chemistry of fire and explosions, which is then used to understand and interpret fire and explosion scenes.
Case studies, fieldwork and laboratory work will provide the contexts for the knowledge delivered in lectures and workshops.
Laboratory skills can be further developed from modules covered earlier in the course and emphasis will be placed on students working on professionally focused group and individual problems.
The professional and research literature will be a major information source that will inform module content and provide the context of the role of forensic scientists in fire and explosion investigation within the framework of the present legal system.
This module comprises two main components:
The first will provide fundamental knowledge concerning strategies for Sampling, Data analysis, Reporting, Quality assurance and Quality control, Numerical and IT skills, and Safety in relation to analytical science.
The second will provide the general introductory principles and a theoretical understanding of a range of instrumental analytical techniques and their applications.
The module aims to provide the background knowledge needed for an understanding of the various principles discussed in greater detail in other modules
Some graduates go on to study at doctoral level.
T Level in Science: Merit Overall (Health or Health Science not accepted)

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/frsfrsub:
F410
Their highly detailed work encompasses elements of chemistry and biology applied in areas such as toxicology, DNA analysis, and trace evidence.
The BSc (Hons) Forensic Science degree is designed to help students develop the skills and knowledge required by forensic scientists in order to apply scientific expertise in criminal investigations.
The degree aims to develop skills and knowledge in a range of forensic science tasks, including crime scene investigation, physical evidence collection, sample analysis, and defence of testimony.
This academically challenging course combines a broad spectrum of subjects, including advanced chemical and biological analysis, forensic toxicology, and crime scene management.
Accredited by the Chartered Society of Forensic Sciences
Optional overseas field course
*Guardian University Guide 2025 (out of 25 ranking institutions).
In years one and two, students are introduced to the principles of forensic science and crime scene investigation alongside key aspects of biology and analytical sciences.
The final year offers students the chance to study specialist areas of forensic science and to develop their skills in the presentation of evidence.
The third year also offers students the opportunity to take part in an optional overseas field trip.
Previous destinations have included Guatemala and New York.
Students who choose to participate in the optional overseas field trip must pay for their own flights and some general living costs.
Accommodation is provided by the University.
Teaching methods include conventional lectures (which cover the core subject material), practical classes, and field visits (which cover the technical and vocational skills of forensic science).
These are supported by tutorials and seminars.
This module introduces students to the forensic process (crime scene to court) and professional practice in forensic science.
This is put into the context of the legal system of England and Wales and the requirements and expectations of forensic science, those that work in the field and the expert witness.
The module aims to develop fundamental skills in mathematics and IT which will underpin other modules within the programme.
The module will also look to develop transferable skills including knowledge of health and safety.
This module is designed to introduce students to the methods used in Human Identification.
Students will be introduced to forensic anthropology before embarking on an intense series of lectures and practical sessions covering the methods used to estimate a biological profile; sex, ancestry, age and stature estimation.
Investigative procedures in a case of a missing person will also be discussed and the role of various experts involved including Forensic Pathology and Odontology.
Other considerations will be given to human remains exposed to fire and how this affects human identification.
This module will also introduce students to the use of DNA in a human identification context.
This module will culminate in students producing their own biological profile of a human skeleton for identification purposes
This module aims to provide students with an appreciation of scientific method, the principles of experimental design and methods of collection of quantitative and qualitative data.
The module will allow students the opportunity to critically assess published work with regard to design of experiment and analysis of data.
Continuing from level 1 professional practice modules, students’ mathematics, statistics and IT skills can be further developed.
Students can contextualise the skills learnt on their course and develop new, job-specific skills through a work placement.
This module provides a context for the chemical, physiological and analytical content introduced at levels 1 and 2.
This module aims to apply the knowledge gained in previous modules to the forensic analysis of biological materials and molecules of biological origin.
Particular specialised fields of application will be treated in depth to allow understanding of how biological expertise may be used in the forensic arena.
Research relevant to the development of these applications will be considered.
The module aims specifically to develop an understanding in three major areas: advanced DNA analysis and presentation of DNA evidence, forensic microbiology and bioterrorism, and mass disasters and the identification of individuals.
This module looks at the final stage of the forensic process and the presentation of evidence.
The module will consider best practice in presenting evidence in visual and oral forms including mock courts.
This module also aims to develop students' project planning and independent learning skills to enable them to devise a research project, drawing on the skills they have developed throughout the programme.
Students can look at developing their capacity for the critical appraisal of scientific literature, to construct research aims and objectives and how to plan an appropriate programme of research for the area under investigation.
Research governance will also be examined including research ethics, COSHH and risk assessments and their importance in order to safely and appropriately carry out a programme of research.
Students will also have the opportunity to further develop their skills in the use of IT for presentation.
In this module, students undertake a project under supervision from a member of staff.
It provides students with an opportunity to demonstrate original and critical thought, as well as to build analytical and project-management skills.
A wide range of subject expertise exists within the School, and students are expected to undertake a project that is relevant to their programme of study.
Under the guidance of a supervisor, students will review the literature, identify a hypothesis or hypotheses and design ways to test these.
They will collect and analyse data, recording their activities in a notebook.
We currently offer projects in the laboratory or field, projects that involve mathematical modelling, systematic reviews or meta-analysis of pre-collected data.
The findings of the project will be written up in the format of a dissertation, and will also be presented orally.
This module provides students with an opportunity to put into practice the techniques they have learned regarding project management, critical analysis, literature review and reporting , with a focus on the public understanding of forensic science.
Students will work independently to identify one or more disciplines that are frequently used within forensic investigations, but also known to the general public.
Examples could include DNA fingerprinting, fingermark analysis, gunshot residue, fire debris analysis or analysis of drugs.
Once the discipline has been identified, students will, through critical analysis of the literature, work to build a comprehensive understanding of the history of the discipline, its current use, benefits and drawbacks, its place within forensic regulations and the current legal framework.
With a strong understanding of the scientific background, students will then critically evaluate how this discipline is presented to the public in fictional portrayals and design a digital tool that will aim to increase understanding.
Between your second and final years, you may have the opportunity to gain experience through a work placement.
Most modules on this course are assessed using a mixture of examinations and coursework.
Coursework includes practical reports, project work, oral presentations, and written submissions.
This programme has full accreditation from the Chartered Society of Forensic Sciences, meaning students are eligible for associate membership.
The Society is the main professional body for individuals working as forensic practitioners, academics, and researchers and in related professions in the UK, and is considered to be the ‘international voice of forensic science’.
More Information
An optional overseas field course gives you the opportunity to experience first hand the work of the forensic specialist.
This module is designed to introduce you to laboratory and field work within an international context while developing a global perspective of forensic science.
You can also familiarise yourself with the professional skills required to carry out this type of work.
Previous destinations have included Guatemala, New York, and Toronto.
Students who choose to participate are required to pay for their own flights and general living costs.
This course is designed to enable you to develop the advanced practical and analytical skills beneficial to a range of careers.
Graduates may go on to roles in law enforcement organisations including police forces, HMRC, environmental health, private sector investigatory agencies, and in laboratories in the forensic, pharmaceutical, and food sectors.
Opportunities also exist in teaching and research.
Previous students have started careers as DNA analysts, crime scene investigators, analytical chemists, and reporting forensic practitioners.
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications including 32 points in Biology, Chemistry, or Applied Science.
BTEC Extended Diploma in Applied Science or Forensic Science*: Distinction, Merit, Merit.
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points, including 32 points from 15 credits in Biology or Chemistry.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall to include a Higher Level 4 in Biology or Chemistry.
GCSE's:  Minimum of three  at grade 4 or above, which must include English and Maths.
This must be achieved from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent Level 3 qualifications, to include 40 points from Biology, Chemistry or Applied Science .
A Level: CCC to BBC to include a Grade B in Biology, Chemistry or Applied Science
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 104 to 112 UCAS points to be achieved from 45 Level 3 credits, including 40 points from 15 credits in Biology or Chemistry.
Our Crime Scene House facility in the Think Tank is used by Forensic Science students, during their course for training, exploring aspects of crime scene investigation, recovery of evidence, and experiments for things like bloodstain pattern analysis.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/cgpcmpub:
G401
The BSc (Hons) Games Computing programme at Lincoln aims to develop the skills and attributes required for roles in the competitive computing sector.
The course is designed to help students develop as versatile professionals, capable of thriving in a wide range of post-university employment destinations.
The course aims to develop a skillset that is applicable to the wider spectrum of the digital sector.
Beyond how to develop technology, a games computing student can also gain an understanding of how to make it engaging, playful, and fun.
The course explores computer science through the specific use-case of games.
Students have the opportunity to develop programming skills, alongside specialist modules in topics including games design, 3D graphics, virtual reality, and artificial intelligence.
*Guardian University Guide 2024 (out of 55 ranking institutions)
The strong conceptual and methodological grounding in both games design and games development gives Lincoln's Games Computing course a distinctive edge.
Students are encouraged to recognise that software engineering is as important as creative design in the success of computer game products and software applications.
The course will also explore the role of playful systems beyond the games industry, looking at how games have been applied to sectors such as education and fitness.
In the first year of the degree, students have the opportunity to study fundamental areas, including game design, mathematics for computing, programming, and game development.
In the second year, there is in-depth study expected in areas of games computing, such as advanced programming, concept development, user experience design, and artificial intelligence.
As well as completing a games development project in the third year, students can choose from a range of specialist optional modules, including Parallel Programming; Autonomous Mobile Robotics; Image Processing; and Virtual and Augmented Reality.
This module explores the theoretical underpinning of the games design process, focusing on how design techniques can be employed to address a design brief or specific problem domain.
Students can develop a first-hand understanding of how games concepts can be developed through a process of exploratory ideation.
Concepts such as design patterns, gameplay, game mechanics, storyline, narrative, game architecture, randomness, and game balance are all studied, using a range of games examples from both contemporary and traditional sources.
Theories of game design are studied through practical work and experimentation using hands-on exercises such as paper prototyping.
While the module is focused on the games context, the skills developed apply to a range of interactive software domains.
This module is designed to provide grounding and context to the Games Computing programme, encompassing historical, societal, aesthetic, and ethical aspects of games as cultural artefacts, and strongly reflects the international level research contributions into game studies ongoing within the School.
This module covers topics of understanding games in an academic context, focusing on a deeper understanding on the experience that players have when engaging with games, and emerging games communities that shape how different groups of players approach playful experiences.
This includes methodologies and topics such as games user research, experience design, and understanding games in social, physical, and cultural contexts.
This study will be complemented in the form of reflective workshops where analytical techniques will be practised using commercial game examples, and other media artefacts that communicate cultural aspects relating to play.
This module aims to develop students’ applied design problem- solving and practical implementation skills.
The module will be delivered over a semester.
The delivery will be divided into two main cycles.
The first half will be focused on game theory and paper prototyping.
The second half will be about digital prototyping and development.
The students will use the remaining workshop time to explore the problem-space and prototype a solution or artefact.
Students will be expected to document their ongoing prototyping process as this will form part of their assessment.
At the end of each cycle, the students will be given feedback as part of an informal interim assessment.
This module provides the students with the opportunity for significant games implementation practice, and the opportunity to develop their portfolio of design concepts.
This module introduces second year students to the fundamentals, theories, and techniques of games programming.
It is designed to give students a grounding in the development of video games, predominantly targeting PC systems, but with some attention to games consoles, mobile, and web platforms.
The module is focused at the lower levels of games programming.
It will use C++ to support the understanding and application of computer science components and bring them together appropriately within a games programming context.
The module considers games programming algorithms and techniques, whilst ensuring students have the chance to understand and apply the various programming aspects of games development.
This includes the player interaction techniques, input devices, data handling (including loading and saving), rendering, and how sound and control interfaces make up a game and a game engine.
Students will be encouraged to develop code and solutions that delivers complete gaming experiences.
The programme is assessed through a variety of means, including in-class tests, coursework, projects, and examinations.
The majority of assessments are coursework-based, and several require the design and development of games, reflecting the practical and applied nature of games computing science.
Take a look at some of the incredible work produced by our Games Computing students.
Our students have the opportunity to develop programming skills, alongside specialist modules in topics including games design, 3D graphics, virtual reality, and artificial intelligence.
Students have the opportunity to be part of a vibrant community of active researchers and take part in extracurricular activities such as performance and games workshops, game jams, and national competitions.
Previous guests lectures have included indie game developers, Lincoln alumni who have careers in the games industry, and video game streamers.
Students have access to a specialist development laboratory, industry-standard software development environments, 3D modelling software, and virtual reality systems.
Software development environments such as Unreal Engine 4, Unity Pro, and Visual Studio play a major part in the practical elements of the course.
There is the opportunity to take a work placement year between the second and third years of study.
Students are academically supported throughout their placement, which can be overseas.
There may also be opportunities to take shorter work placements and overseas study visits.
Lincoln’s diverse and relevant course content really let me specialise in the programming niches that interested me, providing me with the resources and guidance I needed.
George Learmonth
BSc (Hons) Games Computing and Technical Audio Designer at TT Games
Our Games Computing programmes aim to equip graduates with the skills necessary for a technical career.
Graduates can work across the games industry as developers, tools programmers, artificial intelligence programmers, level designers, mission scripters, games testers, and in many other roles in the wider IT industry.
Lincoln graduates have gone on to work for computer games industry giants and other specialist companies in the sector.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/cgpcmpum:
G610
The MComp Games Computing is a four-year degree programme designed to enhance and extend the BSc (Hons) programme with an additional year of Master's level study.
It provides the opportunity to study a range of modules in more detail and to complete a substantive project in an area of specific personal interest.
Studying at Master's level can enable students to both deepen and broaden their knowledge and understanding.
The course aims to develop the skills and attributes required for roles in the competitive computing sector.
It is designed to help students develop as versatile professionals, capable of thriving in a wide range of post-university employment destinations.
In your second year, there is in-depth study expected in areas of games computing, such as advanced programming, concept development, user experience design, and artificial intelligence.
As well as completing a games development project in the third year, students can choose from a range of specialist optional modules, including Parallel Programming, Autonomous Mobile Robotics, and Virtual and Augmented Reality.
In the fourth year you can select further optional modules and will be expected to undertake a Master's level project.
This module aims to enhance students understanding of concepts and theory around computer graphics, as well as enhancing their practical techniques.
Advanced techniques available for graphics processing units (GPUs) are explored along with their practical implementation.
The module introduces the fundamentals of data science and big data analytics, an emergent specialised area of computer science that is concerned with knowledge on ‘Big Data’ mining and visualisation, including state-of-the-art database platforms, development toolkits, and industrial and societal application scenarios.
Students can explore core Big Data analytics concepts and models, the current technology landscape, and topical application scenarios using a variety of simulation environments and open datasets.
This module explores the various conceptual tools that can be applied to the games design process.
The module will be broadly split between theory and practical applications, contextualised against both commercial and academic applications.
Students will be encouraged to develop as reflective design practitioners, through critiquing their own designs and those of their peers.
There is a specific focus on the design pipeline, starting from requirements gathering, through conceptualisation and prototyping, to evaluation and iteration.
Students will learn various methods to help them tackle the specific challenges at each stage in this process.
The module is grounded in practical experimentation, and student-centered exploration of the module themes.
Through this module students will develop an understanding of the interplay between the different components and mechanics of a game, and how small changes can impact the gameplay experience.
The module introduces fundamentals of machine learning and principled application of machine learning techniques to extract information and insights from data.
Parallel Computing is an important modern paradigm in computer science.
Executing multiple processes at the same time can tremendously increase the computational throughput, not only benefiting scientific computations, but also leading to new exciting applications like real-time animated 3D graphics, video processing, and physics simulation.
Students have access to a specialist development laboratory, industry-standard software development environments, 3D modelling software and virtual reality systems.
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages or information on equivalent qualifications.
_______________________ If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/cgpvarub:
G406
Our BSc (Hons) Games Computing with Virtual and Augmented Reality programme is designed for students wishing to combine their study of Games Computing with a focus on the game technologies of the future.
The programme aims to  prepare students to contribute to the growing development and interest in extended reality, with a focus on interaction, immersiveness, and entertainment.
By combining core computer science and game development skills with an additional focus on extended reality, the course aims to create developers who are equipped to address the increasing demand for extended reality as a platform for game technologies.
The course also aims to develop a skillset that is applicable to the wider spectrum of the digital sector.
A range of specialist optional modules
In the first year, students have the opportunity to study the fundamental areas of computer science and games development.
This includes programming fundamentals, maths for computing, and games development.
In the second year, there is in-depth study expected in areas of games computing, such as advanced programming, concept development, user experience design, and artificial intelligence, alongside a focus on game development for virtual and augmented reality.
As well as completing a games development project in the third year, students can choose from a range of specialist optional modules, including Physics Simulation,  Parallel Programming; Autonomous Mobile Robotics; Image Processing; and Cross-Platform Development.
This module focuses on how to design and develop games for contemporary Virtual and Augmented Reality (VR/AR) platforms.
The module will underpin practical development work with theoretical concepts of user experience in VR/AR platforms, such as immersion, presence, fidelity, and embodiment.
These will be contextualised by VR game experiences, and students' previous knowledge of games development and design.
This module aims to emulate a studio-based working environment in a classroom setting: students will collaborate in small teams to design, develop, and evaluate a VR game experience over a period of one semester.
Each team will undertake a process of iterative design, prototyping, and evaluation over the duration of the module, resulting in a resulting in an implementation which meets the specification presented in an initial brief.
Students will document their work on a week-by-week basis, and this will form part of their assessment.
The module will incorporate the flexibility for students to collaborate with cohorts of students in other schools and colleges within the University, in order to foster an interdisciplinary approach to learning, and better represent an authentic working environment.
The majority of assessments are coursework-based, reflecting the practical and applied nature of games computing science.
Full-time students have the option of a year-long professional practice placement, which can be overseas, after the second year, providing real-world experience.
Students also have access to a specialist development laboratory, industry-standard software development environments, 3D modelling software, and virtual reality systems.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/internationalcollege/

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/egrgenub:
Our General Engineering programmes aim to develop graduates with the skills and knowledge to become rounded engineers with diverse experiences in a number of engineering fields, able to adapt to new challenges and deliver sustainable solutions for modern society.
The programme includes bespoke modules designed for General Engineering programmes, as well as specialist modules aligning to the School's wider engineering portfolio.
The General Engineering suite of programmes consists of a CertHE, DipHE, and BEng (Hons) General Engineering.
Students may choose to apply to study from one year and work towards a CertHE through to the three years and work towards a BEng (Hons).
Transfer between the programmes is also possible during your studies.
A foundation year entry route is also available for those who don't  meet the standard entry requirements for the programmes.
BEng (Hons), CertHE, and DipHE options
Specialist optional modules from across our engineering portfolio
Strong industry links
Study stand-alone modules as part of a flexible learning option
The General Engineering programmes utilise problem- and project-based learning.
We aim to narrow the gap between employers' requirements and our graduates' skills to improve employability and help their transition from higher education into work.
The combination of modules offered is designed to build subject knowledge and skills required for graduate careers in both engineering and disciplines branching from it.
Opportunities such as our year in research and industry placement are embedded within the programme to further affirm those skills in real-world contexts relevant to your own career ambitions.
The first year, which will be common across all General Engineering programmes, will lay foundations in fields such as mechanical, electrical, and mechatronic engineering.
Students on the BEng programme will then go on in years two and three to develop some aspects of these fields further, as well as developing an appreciation of their interrelatedness and applications of this knowledge in a variety of contexts.
The programme uses a range of teaching methods including scheduled teaching sessions, directed independent study activities, and self-directed independent study.
This Introductory research methods module prepares students for undertaking the research for their Independent Study as well as the optional year in research module.
The module introduces core principles of the research methods that they are likely to utilise in their research.
The chosen method should form the basis of their research design, and the structure of the of independent study submission.
The aim of this module is to give students the opportunity to experience a real engineering design situation as part of a group.
Students have the opportunity to gain an understanding of strategic, operational, environmental and ethical issues related to new product design and development through a series of lectures covering an appreciation of market and societal dynamics and its effect on the design of new products.
This module provides students with the opportunity to understand the tools and techniques available to facilitate sustainable product design and provide knowledge of the product design processes that can reduce environmental impacts and promote sustainable practices.
Assessment on the programme is designed to measure and assess engineering technical and analytical skills as well as professional soft skills including oral and written communication, team working, long-life learning, problem-solving, project management, and planning and organisation.
Coursework assignments are used in a number of modules where students are required to work on their own or in small groups.
They are designed to enable students to develop and show their understanding of the module content.
Oral presentations are often included as part of coursework to provide opportunities for developing essential communication skills.
The programme also includes online, time constrained assessments (TCAs).
Students are expected to complete an individual project in their final year of the degree course, providing an excellent opportunity to pull together every aspect of their development during the course.
This programme has two different placement opportunities, depending on the interests of each student.
The sandwich option provides you with the opportunity to either spend a year in industry or a year in research.
For either opportunity, you are encouraged to obtain placements independently, however tutors may provide support and advice to those who require it during this process.
Flexible Learning
Students may also choose to enrol on individual modules from the programme as part of a flexible study option.
For more information on this, including when specific modules are running and how to apply, please contact us.
Professional engineers are in demand in the UK and overseas.
Graduates may pursue a variety of career paths in either engineering or a related discipline thanks to the broad skillset developed in this programme.
The University’s strong industry links give Lincoln graduates enhanced opportunities for placements, mentoring, and recruitment.
Students may choose to continue their studies to postgraduate level, choosing to specialise through an MSc in Engineering or a related discipline.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/gehgehub:
L700
From climate change to health inequalities, and from food security to natural hazards and disasters, geography is at the heart of many of humanity's greatest challenges.
At Lincoln, we believe that meeting these challenges requires a focus on the unity of geography to understand the links between humanity and the environments we inhabit - a theme that runs through our teaching and research.
The BA (Hons) Geography Degree at Lincoln explores social science perspectives on issues of globalisation, sustainability, geo-politics, and cultural change, ranging from the local to the global scale.
It encourages students to develop the analytical, critical, and collaborative skills needed to work across broad interdisciplinary issues.
This course is designed to develop subject understanding and geographical skills progressively in the context of real-world problems, enabling students to apply their learning to contemporary global challenges, delivering a degree that is relevant to the global, environmental, and societal challenges of the 21st century.
A belief in the importance of interdisciplinary knowledge to address major issues is at the heart of our approach.
Our academics are experienced collaborative researchers investigating key and emerging issues in global development across the spectrum of human geography and related disciplines.
As part of our 'Student as Producer' initiative students can engage in research and project work that builds on the expertise of staff with undergraduates and academics to collaborating on research activities.
Geography at Lincoln explores social science perspectives on issues of globalisation, sustainability, geo-politics, and cultural change, ranging from the local to the global scale.
This course is designed to develop subject understanding and geographical skills progressively in the context of real-world problems, delivering a degree that is relevant to the global, environmental, and societal challenges of the 21st century.
Accredited by the Royal Geographical Society (with IBG)
Informed by world-leading research
Placement opportunities with leading public and private sector organisations
Opportunities to undertake field work in the UK and abroad
Links with local industry and environmental regulatory agencies
*Guardian University Guide 2024 (out of 66 ranking institutions)
At Lincoln we believe in the 'Student as Producer' ethos, which encourages a collaborative approach between academics and undergraduates in all aspects of learning.
Many of our Department of Geography academics are highly experienced researchers and lecturers investigating key issues in development and change across the spectrum of human, environmental, and physical geography.
In the first year, BA and BSc Geography students follow the same curriculum.
This introduces the key concepts and skills required for a 21st Century geographer, creating an interdisciplinary foundation upon which they can build.
In the second- and third-years, students may have the opportunity to study a range of exciting topics including development studies, health geography, rural societies, and environmental management, alongside elements of physical geography within the context of a broad interdisciplinary approach.
Our modules enable students to develop skills in research, fieldwork, modelling, and data analysis.
Our students may have opportunities to practice and refine their skills through projects, fieldwork in both domestic and overseas locations, and work placement activities.
For mandatory trips in the first and second years, travel and accommodation costs are covered by the Department.
Students choosing to participate in optional third year field trips will be responsible for covering their travel and the Department will cover the accommodation and general living costs.
During the degree students will be taught in many different formats, including lectures, seminars, small group tutorials, practical teaching of data collection and analytical techniques through field classes, as well as group project work under close supervision.
In the second and third years, students may have the opportunity to study a range of exciting topics including development studies, health geography, rural societies, and environmental management, alongside elements of physical geography within the context of a broad interdisciplinary approach.
The aim of this module is to introduce students to how geographical knowledge is created, developed, communicated, and applied to students' careers, and to local and global challenges.
Students will engage with a series of weekly sessions that focus on key skills and knowledge that students will require throughout their degree.
Students will be introduced to the tools required to search and evaluate academic literature relevant to their studies, the philosophical constructs around which geographical knowledge is based, and how to effectively communicate using approaches that they will encounter during their degrees, such as essay writing, report writing, posters and presentations.
Certain forces are shaping the structure of human populations and societies in the 21st century.
The aim of this module is to help students gain foundational understanding of these different forces as well as their effects on human population structure.
Students will get an opportunity to explore different aspects of population dynamics across developed and developing societies.
From this quantitative starting point, students will be progressed into qualitative exploration of different place identities and attachments, cultural changes, and representations of places at a global scale.
Teaching sessions will focus on people, their individual and collective characteristics, spatial distributions, and the undercurrents that account for these spatial patterns.
In a broad sense, the module reflects the diversity of geography and it is closely aligned to spatial demography.
Consequently, in addition to gaining insights into theoretical basis of population geography, students will also be exposed to the technical foundations of demographic data analysis through hands-on software training.
This module uses the “laboratory” of the local environment to study global issues related to social and environmental justice within the University’s “local to global” remit.
Local fieldwork introduces students to contemporary issues in the social and natural environment through in-depth studies.
We visit three nearby environments: the urban, rural and coastal, and will study environmental hazards, social-economic geographies and ecosystem sustainability, as well as the interactions between these processes.
The aim of this module is to provide an introduction to the general principles of physical geography for students with diverse backgrounds.
Using a systems-based approach to physical geography, four environmental systems will be examined: geosphere, cryosphere, atmosphere, and hydrosphere.
The final part of the module will consider the interactions between physical systems and also the causes and consequences of system change, such as climate change, over time and space.
The occurrence and impacts of some key natural hazards (earthquakes, volcanoes, floods and droughts) will also be considered, which will facilitate an improved appreciation of the safety and health of the environment.
Since 1944, development has been firmly on the global agenda, shaping policies, economies, and geopolitical relations worldwide.
However, since its inception, development has evolved significantly, moving beyond its early focus on economic growth to encompass issues such as sustainability, equity, and justice.
This module invites students to critically explore the diverse histories, theories, discourses, and futures of development, examining how the concept has been understood and implemented across different regions.
As with the learning objectives, this updated synopsis better reflects the current state of development studies, accounting for topical discussions in the discipline, as well as recent staff changes to the module coordination.
The ability to model the behaviour of natural and human systems, and their interaction, is an increasingly vital tool in understanding both these systems and the consequence of changes such as population growth or climate change; it is therefore essential for assessing the safety and health of the inhabited Earth.
This module uses lectures and computer practicals to introduce the numerical modelling of geographical processes and systems.
The science and art of model formulation, construction, and testing will be covered in detail.
Students will use a number of specially-written models from various areas of physical and human geography.
This module equips students with highly employable data analysis skills which they will use both in their studies and their careers beyond.
Students will learn from a lectures series and accompanying practical classes.
As part of the module students will deliver a project related to real-world geographical problems.
Modern societal development has created new exposures and risks to such hazards that are not fully understood, or may be perceived in different ways – even within the same community.
Such vulnerabilities are often only brought into view in the aftermath of a disaster, when losses of life, capital and livelihoods have already occurred, making it vital to assess the physical and social dimensions of hazards in order to increase preparedness.
This module is focused around a field-week that will explore the theme of hazards and their relationship to society from both an environmental and human standpoint.
This interdisciplinary perspective on hazards and society will offer new insights into the challenges facing contemporary societies in a specific region, while also providing insight into the opportunities offered by geographical research.
An overriding aim of the module is to understand how various forms of geographical knowledge can better prepare us for the challenges of environmental hazards and global change more broadly.
The aim of this module is to provide experience in practising ‘real’ geography through field exercises, data collection and interpretation, and presentation of data.
The field course in this module will strengthen students’ ability to identify research problems, design and execute data collection strategies, and present well-reasoned and coherent interpretations of findings.
Independent research is a valuable skill in geography and prized by employers.
In this module you learn how to conduct independent research by undertaking a series of research projects including using social laboratory techniques.
These will teach you the theory and philosophy behind human geographical research as well as its practical application.
By the end of the module you will build and interrogate your own datasets to develop your own understanding of a social geographical problem.
The Level 2 placement provides students with the opportunity to develop their professional skills by spending one day a week along the semester with a relevant local employer.
Tasks will be developed to give the student an insight into the professional working environment in the wider field of geography.
Students will then prepare an essay on their professional learning experience, with reflections on how elements of the Geography syllabus relate to at least one core area of their work experience.
The Department of Geography works with an established network of local employers that offer placements on regular basis, and an experienced Placement Officer who can help students find a relevant organisation for their placement.
Provision of this option supports the educational aims of the School of Geography and enhances the distinctiveness of its degrees at Lincoln.
Study Abroad
is a year long module which enables students to spend a year studying abroad at one of the University’s approved partner institutions.
Eligible students must have completed their second year
of study to a satisfactory standard and successfully completed the application process for the year abroad.
Upon their
return, as part of the assessment for this modules, students are required to critically reflect upon their experience of living and studying in a different cultural environment and the skills acquired.
This module examines the physical, social and political characteristics, and the physical causes, of natural and anthropogenic climate change.
These key themes will be explored in terms of how society has responded to the physical processes and impacts of climate.
The Dissertation is an extended piece of original research work on a geographical topic of students' own choice that is carried out under the guidance of a staff mentor.
It allows students to draw together and build on the skills and subject expertise they have developed throughout their time at University.
Students will be expected to either collect original material for investigation and/or to carry out original analysis of secondary data.
Students' allocated supervisor will guide and advise them in their work.
No matter who or where we are, our everyday lives and where we live them are shaped by uneven processes related to the production and governance of differentiated populations: racial capitalism, settler and post-colonialism, bordering regimes, planetary urbanism, neoliberal governance, etc.
These global processes are both deeply complex and deeply connected, yet work to produce socio-spatial inequalities, marginalisation, displacements, social violence, political and social movements and mobilities.
If we are to address ongoing social injustices, we need to understand and examine how global population processes emerge, function and relate to each other.
This module critiques and evaluates global population processes through investigating their enactions in space and time and the application of relevant critical theories.
In this module you can examine the evolving relationships between humans and the natural world.
You’ll have the opportunity to challenge narratives that separate nature and society by exploring the multiplicity of socio-natures and more-than-human perspectives.
How has the environment shaped human history?
How did past societies adapt to environmental changes?
What was the impact of colonialism on local to global processes of environmental change?
What lessons does the past hold for our present environmental challenges?
These are some of the key questions that this module will address by using the ‘laboratory’ of the past.
Case studies will be drawn from across the globe and across different time periods to facilitate an analytical and comparative view of human-environment interactions, equipping students with critical and deep understanding of humanity’s entanglements with the environment.
This module will put into practice knowledge gained in previous modules, and - by focusing on the physical and human processes that have shaped the environment and will influence future change - it will provide experience of process interpretation and understanding in an unfamiliar setting.
The module is designed to allow students to work within an overseas environment and carry out a study that will result in the design, implementation, and production of a research report that is mainly based on student-led fieldwork.
Introductory lecture sessions will take place in Lincoln prior to fieldwork.
Knowledge and understanding on the actual field class can be gained via enquiry-based learning, followed by group/individual data collection and follow-up analysis, set in the context of wider research, and student-centred research presentations.
Follow-up sessions will provide the opportunity to analyse and create a written presentation of research findings.
Currently, the Overseas fieldwork module takes place in Chile, although this is subject to change.
Students who choose to participate in the optional field trip are responsible for covering their travel to the site.
On this placement, students are expected to carry out a specific project for an external organisation.
The project would be agreed between the Host Organisation, School of Geography Supervisor and Student prior to the commencement of the placement.
The student would be expected to undertake a specific project task to address a particular requirement of the Host Organisation.
This might include consultancy research, analytical research, public engagement or the development of a new teaching class/activity.
The approach, outcome and an evaluation of the project should be presented in the form of a professional report and oral presentation.
In this module, you can build a critical understanding of how power relations, economic systems, and social structures influence environmental policies, practices, and injustices.
You will be introduced to key concepts in Political Ecology as well as trace how these emerged through aligned disciplinary traditions including Human Geography, Anthropology, Political Economy, and Critical Development Studies.
The module will also apply and practice these concepts to critically examine diverse human and non-human ecologies prominent in Political Ecology research, such as, access to water and energy, extractivism, urbanization, and feminist and indigenous rights and injustice.
Students are able to develop workplace-relevant skills through a diverse range of assessments including reports, policy briefs, short and long essays, presentations, blogs, field diaries, and podcasts, alongside in-class tests and examinations.
Group and individual assessments are used throughout the programme.
Students are given feedback in all of their assessments which are graded using pre-defined marking criteria available to all students.
The Department of Geography provides individual and small group support to students through our tutorial system and scheduled 'open office hours'.
This programme has been accredited by the Royal Geographical Society (with IBG).
Accredited degree programmes must contain a solid academic foundation in geographical knowledge and skills, and prepare graduates to address the needs of the world beyond higher education.
The accreditation criteria require evidence that graduates from accredited programmes meet defined sets of learning outcomes, including subject knowledge, technical ability, and transferable skills.
Our students benefit from a wide range of fieldwork destinations both in the UK and overseas to support the development of key skills in gathering, collating, and analysing quantitative and qualitative data.
Costs of these compulsory trips are covered by the University.
In the third year, we offer an optional trip that in previous years took place in central and southern Chile, and should students choose to participate, they may be responsible for covering their travel, accommodation, and general living costs.
This course allowed me to explore my interests in environmental geography and helped me to specialise my focus towards environmentalism and climate change action and governance.
Callum Pickersgill
BA (Hons) Geography
Research is essential in informing our teaching and each of our academics is passionate about research.
The College of Health and Science hosts the Lincoln Centre for Water and Planetary Health (LCWPH), and the Development, Inequality, Resilience and Environments (DIRE), Lincoln Climate, and Catchments and Coasts (CCRG) research groups.
Our students have the chance to encounter authentic research at all levels — either through their own activities or through the teaching staff sharing experiences from their own research.
Wider opportunities to engage in research are provided through guest lectures within the course, working closely with the Lincoln branch of the Geographical Association externally, and engaging in research projects with staff.
Two students have already completed UROS projects with the Department of Geography.
Explore Our Expertise
Geography is an ideal subject to study for understanding how to address major environmental and social challenges such as the climate crisis, and also for picking up vital work skills.
Professor of Climate Science and Meteorology
The Department of Geography offers opportunities to gain valuable work experience with partners in industry, schools, and public sector organisations.
These include a placement module in the second year and a consultancy module in the third year, enabling students to practice and develop a wide range of skills and expertise of relevance to the workplace whilst also building invaluable career networks.
The Department works with a dedicated placement officer to support students in placement and consultancy opportunities.
Students can also elect to work for a full year placement as part of a sandwich year programme .
We also have exchange agreements with selected overseas universities to enable students to spend a full year study abroad as part of their degree.
From the first year, there may be opportunities to attend lectures from people whose careers are built on geographical skills and knowledge.
The Department of Geography also works closely with the University Careers and Employability Team to promote the Lincoln Award, an initiative designed to enhance employability skills.
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications to include 40 points in Geography or a related subject.
History, English, Economics, Environmental Science, Sociology, a modern Language, Psychology, Mathematics or Biology are accepted.
BTEC Extended Diploma in Geography or related subjects: Distinction, Merit, Merit.
Applied Science, Computing, Engineering, Environmental Sustainability, Information Technology, Pharmaceutical Science are accepted.
T Level in Science, Agriculture, Land Management and Production are accepted: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points, including 40 points from 15 credits in Geography or a related subject from the fields of History, Philosophy, Theology, Languages, Literature, Culture, or Social Sciences.
International Baccalaureate:  28 points overall to include Higher Level 5 in Geography or related subject (from the fields of the Arts, studies in Language and Literature or Individuals and Societies)
This must be achieved from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent Level 3 qualifications, to include 40 points from Geography or a related subject.
A Level: BCD to BBC to include a Grade B in Geography or a related subject.
History, English, Economics, Environmental Science, Sociology, a modern Language, Psychology, Mathematics or Biology
BTEC Extended Diploma in Geography or a related subject: DMM Applied Science, Computing, Engineering, Environmental Sustainability, Information Technology, Pharmaceutical Science (Please include units on application)
T Level in Science, Agriculture, Land Management and Production are accepted.: Merit Overall
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 96 to 112 UCAS points to be achieved from 45 Level 3 credits, including 40 points from 15 credits in Geography or a related subject (from the fields of History, Philosophy, Theology, Languages, Literature, Culture or Social Sciences)
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall to include a Higher Level in Geography or related subject.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/gepgepub:
F800
BSc (Hons) Geography explores environmental change and sustainability from local to global scales.
We encourage students to develop the analytical, critical, and collaborative skills needed to work across broad interdisciplinary issues.
We focus on the unity of geography emphasising the links between human and physical geography as an integrative subject.
Physical geography provides the intellectual tools necessary to understand the relationship between human society and its environment, and the issues that challenge our future.
This course is designed to deepen students' understanding and appreciation of geography.
Students can develop a cutting-edge skill set by using the latest geographical technologies to tackle real-world problems and by applying their learning to contemporary global challenges.
Our Department of Geography academics are highly experienced researchers and lecturers investigating key issues in development and change across the spectrum of human, environmental, and physical geography.
In the first year, BSc and BA Geography students follow a common integrated central pathway.
This pathway introduces the key concepts and skills required for a 21st century geographer, laying the interdisciplinary foundation upon which they will build.
In the second- and third-years, students may have the opportunity to specialise by selecting optional modules.
Across the course, students can develop many core transferable skills including data analysis, field and laboratory work, working with practitioners in placements, undertaking and presenting research, and working with Geographical Information Systems (GIS).
This aims to help students apply geographical knowledge to real-world settings and put theory into practice to address today's global challenges.
During the degree students will be taught in many different formats, including lectures, seminars, small group tutorials, practical teaching of data collection, and analytical techniques through field classes, as well as group project work under close supervision.
In this module you learn how to conduct independent research by undertaking a series of research projects including using laboratory and fieldwork-based techniques.
These will teach you the theory and philosophy behind physical geographical research.
By the end of the module you will create and interrogate your own dataset to develop your own understanding of an environmental problem.
This module will give students an advanced understanding of (1) catchment hydrology, including ecohydrology, and hydrological responses of catchments to climate and land use changes, with an emphasis on global challenges of water resources management, and (2) theoretical background of fluvial geomorphology and morphodynamics, including river and flood management strategies.
The first part of the module covers global hydrology, including consideration of the physical characteristics of rivers and their geographical variation, and related aspects of river-catchment science and the role of the water resources in the wider environmental system.
The second part focuses on the geomorphology of catchment and river systems, and the expected changes that river ecosystems are likely to experience under the influence of direct anthropogenic perturbations and global change.
Students are able to develop workplace-relevant skills through a diverse range of assessments including reports, policy briefs, short and long essays, presentations, blogs, field diaries and podcasts, alongside in-class tests and examinations.
Sophie Beckerton
BSc (Hons) Geography
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications to include 40 points in Geography or related subject.
Biology, Chemistry, Environmental Science, Geology, Mathematics, are accepted.
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points, including 40 points from 15 credits in Geography or a related subject from the fields of Information, Communications and Technology, Science and Mathematics or Agriculture, Horticultures and Animal Care.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall to include Higher Level 5 in Geography or related subject (from the fields of Sciences, Mathematics or Individuals and Societies.)
This must be achieved from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent Level 3 qualifications, to include 40 points from Geography or related subject For example:
A Level: BCD to BBC to include a Grade B in Geography or related subject.
Biology, Chemistry, Environmental Science, Geology, Mathematics
T Level in Science, Agriculture, Land Management and Production are accepted: Merit Overall
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 96 to 112 UCAS points to be achieved from 45 Level 3 credits, including 40 points from 15 credits in Geography or a related subject (from the fields of Information, Communications and Technology, Science and Mathematics or Agriculture, Horticultures and Animal Care)
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall to include a Higher Level in Geography or related subject: (from the fields of Sciences, Mathematics or Individuals and Societies)

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/gragraub:
W290
Graphic Design is a dynamic and ever-evolving industry where effective communication and bold ideas can have a positive effect on every aspect of contemporary life.
You will learn to tell compelling visual stories that have a role in everything from branding and packaging, to filmmaking, animation and book design - with the opportunity to test your skills in international creative competitions.
We'll introduce you to specialist technology and professional workshop facilities, which you can use to develop your skills in a wide range of design disciplines, from commercial design to socially conscious projects.
We'll help you to build a personal design portfolio built around your own interests and passions, teaching you how to develop effective and original design ideas, from brief to pitch.
Subject ranked in the top 10 overall in the UK*
Links with industry and workshops with visiting experts
Specialist design studios, technology, and equipment
Take part in international student design competitions
Optional study visit to New York
Professional network of alumni
*Guardian University Guide 2025 (out of 62 ranking institutions).
In the first year, you are encouraged to work in both traditional and digital media while studying the fundamental principles of graphic design.
The course introduces the creative methods needed in the industry to answer briefs, solve communication problems, and meet deadlines, alongside a theory course that underpins the social context and history of the subject.
This knowledge is taken further in the second year, where more advanced concepts of graphic design are introduced.
The third year provides an opportunity for you to develop your own specialism with a range of projects to choose from, including projects set by industry.
The third year culminates in a physical or online end-of-year degree show.
During the three years of the course, you are encouraged to undertake competition briefs or apply to recognised industry award schemes.
The course has an impressive track record of success with the British Book Design & Publication Awards, D&AD New Blood Awards, Creative Conscience Awards, the International Society of Typographic Designers (ISTD Awards), the RSA Student Design Award scheme, Adobe Top Talent Awards, and many others.
Depending on the award scheme, these offer opportunities for networking, industry recognition, placements and bursaries.
As the course progresses, you will develop a professional portfolio of work through a mixture of studio projects and independent, collaborative, and industry-led briefs.
Studio practice is a key element of this course, and you will have the opportunity to spend a lot of time in creative studio environments.
Teaching and learning experiences may include online and studio activities, peer groups, lectures, workshops, seminars, and group tutorials.
You can also benefit from one-to-one tutorials, portfolio reviews, and self-initiated work experience.
On this programme, we would advise that you undertake three hours of self-study for every one hour of timetabled delivery.
This module introduces students to key visual design principles, research, ideation, development, presentation, and the digital tools required to facilitate and demonstrate visual concepts.
The work in this module equips students with the technical proficiency required to support independent study, underpinned by user-centred design theories and methodologies.
Students are encouraged to explore a range of ideas both individually and collaboratively with outputs via workshops, critiques, and independent study.
This module introduces a wide range of software relevant to contemporary graphic designers.
It covers foundational techniques and approaches to image manipulation for print, web design, interaction design, motion graphics, animation, and installation.
Students will develop skills through practical projects and tasks, building a portfolio of outcomes while recording and reflecting on their design and development process.
This module is designed to furnish students with a basic understanding of new media, the languages and the relevant applications involved in creating visually dynamic graphic user interfaces and the principles of animation.
The knowledge and skills acquired are largely generic within the contexts of new media and time based applications such as good working practices and saving files optimized for web.
Students will be involved with the investigation of ideas and theory to visualise concepts for output via a range of contemporary digital mediums.
It provides students with the opportunity to practically experience the production for both physical and web based applications.
This module is concerned with introducing students to the fundamental and underlying principles of graphic communication design practice along with the skills and processes that support it.
The programme of study will explore a range of creative strategies that consider the relationship between form, structure, content and audience.
Students will also be introduced to appropriate graphic design terminology, theories, and principles.
This module aims to introduce students to visual expression and personal creative development through the means of appropriate media and processes as they relate to the broad nature of communication design and graphic design practice.
The learning experience is intended to initiate a process of experimentation, speculation, innovation and personal exploration.
Key to the module is the initial development of the students’ own visual voice.
This module extends the technical proficiency, study and investigation of visual communication, with an emphasis on new digital mediums.
The module expands on previous skills and theory from level 1, such as working with Interaction, User Interface, and User experience design in order to produce material for digital and print distribution.
As such, Design Fundamentals 2 builds on the necessary skills to develop a broad range of artefacts at a higher visual, conceptual standard.
Students expand on the range of exciting possibilities for visual communication and are encouraged to explore the visual / aesthetic, functionality, effects and navigation, particular to the individual’s creative direction, to create a rich variety of experimental aesthetics and visual experiences.
This module encourages a conceptual approach to graphic design work and problem solving whilst developing the highly professional and technical aspects of study acquired in other areas of the course at level two.
Students may gain experience of solving client-related communication problems, meeting client expectations, and presenting creative and original solutions and findings through design projects that reference ethical and social issues.
In Year 2, this module focuses on the further development of your creative and conceptual skills, (building on the learning begun at Level 1).
The creative and conceptual approaches to problem solving you develop in this module are complimentary to, and symbiotically linked to the skills necessary to successfully complete all the briefs in other modules.
The module operates on the notion that the student’s creative personal development and individual visual voice is developed through familiarity with a broad range of media and creative practices.
Students may therefore, explore the various facets of visual communication with the intention of communicating complex and varied messages to a range of audiences.
Embracing the ethos of creative risk taking, speculation and individuality underpins the rationale behind Visual Expression 2.
This module focuses on the transition from student to designer, and is aligned with the expectations of the Graphic Design and related industries.
The module focuses on reinforcing the process of applied theories, fundamentals and principles particular to Graphic Design practice.
Students will be expected to complete specific stand-alone project outcomes, but also those which relate to those for the Visual Expression 3 and Graphic Communication 3 modules.
A large part of the Design Fundamental 3 module aims to allow students to prepare themselves for their personal career paths through links to industries, portfolio reviews, talks and workshops with practicing creatives and a psychologist in order to allow students to complete their studies full of confidence and positivity for life after graduation.
This is a module that allows students to determine their own programme of study within their chosen specialism in graphic design.
Projects may be chosen from a range of areas within the subject by negotiation with academic staff.
At this level Graphic Design students accept full responsibility for initiating and selecting the content of their study programme, according to their specific interests and career aspirations.
The themes studied in preceding Visual Expression modules are further developed at this level.
This would include aspects of personal creative development, the further development of a visual voice along with the exploration and exploitation of a broad range of traditional and digital media.
The aim is to provide the student with an opportunity to be innovative and where appropriate include authorial content in their work.
The themes studied in the preceding Visual Expression modules are further developed and consolidated at this level.
This includes aspects of personal creative development, the further development of a visual voice along with the exploration and exploitation of a broad range of traditional and digital media.
Students are currently provided with free access to Adobe Creative Cloud, Autodesk software, and Lynda.com for the duration of their studies.
Students have the opportunity to engage with both live project briefs set by external clients and also national and international competition briefs.
Students are also encouraged to enter a range of competitions, for which the course has an enviable track record of success.
Previous students have won the RSA Student Design Awards, graduated as members of the International Society of Typographic Designers, won D&AD yellow pencils, had projects reach the semi-finals of the Adobe Design Achievement Awards, and been commended for the YCN Student Awards.
We also make every effort to get our students work seen by potential employers; final year students produce a website in conjunction with their final year show.
This aims to showcase their individual talents.
All students are encouraged to seek optional placements in design agencies during their time at Lincoln.
This gives them the chance to gain hands-on experience and to establish contacts within the graphic design industry.
Students are responsible for covering their own travel, accommodation, and general living costs while undertaking placements.
Because of the variety of content in the course, and therefore my portfolio, I stood out against others with a lot more experience than me.
So much so that my employer hired a graduate when originally, they were expecting someone with at least 3 years' experience.
Natalie Bond
BA (Hons) Graphic Design graduate
Professional design specialists enhance the curriculum through a visiting lecturer programme.
Students can choose to participate in optional study visits.
Recent destinations include New York.
Please note that students will be responsible for their travel, accommodation, and general living expenses while undertaking an optional study trip.
Graduates who pursue careers as graphic designers can work across both print and digital platforms.
Recent graduates have worked for agencies including True North, Iris, Jaywing, Landor, Design Bridge, Coley Porter Bell, Brass, Raw, Elmwood, Jack Renwick Studio, Interbrand, and Johnson Banks.
Some set up their own independent studios or work as freelance graphic designers.
Students on this course have the opportunity to take part in field trip and international study visits.
The University covers the costs of mandatory field trips, but optional study visits are at the student’s own expense.
Previous destinations have included New York and Berlin.
Students are responsible for covering their own travel, accommodation, and general living costs while undertaking work experience or internships.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/hsthstub:
V100
History may be concerned with questions about the past, but the knowledge it reveals is relevant to how we think about ourselves and our place within society today.
BA (Hons) History at Lincoln is distinctive in the breadth of topics that students can choose to study.
These include British, European, Chinese, and American history, from the Roman Empire to the end of the 20th Century.
Students of history have the opportunity to acquire skills of analysis, argument, and communication which can help them to develop as individuals, as responsible contributors to organisations, and as articulate, critical members of a democratic society.
There is an emphasis on the critical examination and interpretation of primary source materials, which includes newspapers, probate documents, films, caricatures, novels, works of art, architecture, and oral testimony.
Home to a 1000-year-old cathedral, a medieval castle, and an original 1215 Magna Carta, Lincoln is a great city in which to study history.
The programme makes extensive use of specialist local resources including Lincoln's historic buildings, the Lincoln Cathedral archives, and the Collection.
History at Lincoln offers world-leading historical expertise, award-winning teaching, and among the highest levels of student satisfaction in the country.
Settled in a stunning cathedral city, we provide an elite university experience made for every individual student.
Our dynamic curriculum is research-led and student-centred.
We have ex-panded the scope of historical study to let you put together a programme based on your own interests - from the origins of Roman London to BTS in East Asia; from the crusades in the east and the west to the legacies of race and migration in the Caribbean; from con-serving the physical objects of empire to digitally-mapping the ancient world.
You can also explore classes from other subjects, including English, Classical Studies, Philosophy, and Conservation.
The historians at Lincoln have distinct expertise in Ancient History and Archaeology; Peace and Conflict Studies; Gender, Sexuality, Race, and Citizenship; Heritage and Conservation; Medieval Studies; and Modern British and American History.
In addition to their world-leading historical expertise, Lincoln's historians are also award-winning teachers who have received commendations and awards from prestigious institutions including the Royal Historical Society.
We are regularly commended by the university's students for our teaching excellence and wellbeing support.
In a city of Roman sites, a stunning medieval castle, and the physical legacies of World War II, you will encounter moments of history everyday by studying BA (Hons) History at the University of Lincoln.
Upon your graduation in the breath-taking Lincoln Cathedral, you too will have become a confident historian ready to shape your world.
Subject area ranked top 20 in the UK for student satisfaction*
Access specialist resources at local archives
Undertake work placements at museums, heritage sites, schools and charities.
*Complete University Guide 2025 (out of 90 ranking institutions).
The History programme at Lincoln is distinctive in that it provides students with an opportunity to engage with a wide range of periods and cultures.
Modules range chronologically from the period of the Roman Empire, through the medieval and early modern periods, to the twentieth century, and geographically from Britain to Europe, Africa, Asia, and the Americas.
The programme offers a variety of interdisciplinary approaches to the study of history including the use of film, literature, and visual and material culture, and staff specialisms include medieval studies, political history, media history, gender studies, the history of science, museum history, the history of art, film, and popular culture.
The first year provides students with the chance to develop a solid foundation of historical knowledge and introduces the historical skills required to undertake more advanced work later in the programme.
It also provides students with the opportunity to develop a broader set of skills that may prove useful beyond university.
The first year consists of eight modules which cover history from the ancient world through the medieval and early modern periods right up to the 21st Century.
There are two skills modules that aim to develop the attributes necessary to tackle university-level work and that examine the historian's craft.
There are two survey modules which examine European history from the medieval period to the 20th Century.
The remaining core modules focus on visual culture, gender, sexuality, and imperialism whilst students can choose one optional module in semester B.
The range of options varies from year to year and may include American History, Chinese History, History of Art, Conservation, Classical Studies, or Philosophy.
In both the second and the third years, you will study two compulsory modules and a further six modules chosen from a range of optional modules based on the research and specialisms of our own historians.
Please note that as a research intensive department, subjects may occasionally be unavailable where the relevant historian is on research leave.
Students undertaking this course may have the option to study overseas for a semester in the second year at one of the University's partner institutions in Europe or North America, giving them the opportunity to discover new cultures and experiences.
Students are responsible for their travel, accommodation, and general living costs during the term overseas.
History at Lincoln combines research excellence with award-winning teaching and a friendly, nourishing learning environment.
Lincoln's historians help develop history education throughout the country, working closely with history teachers, academy trusts, and colleges to help new undergraduates navigate their move to university and feel welcome from their first day of study.
Communal lectures, small seminar classes, and personal tutorials guide you every step of your journey, and you will be on first name terms with all of your teachers.
The expertise of our historians means many of our topics are taught exclusively at Lincoln.
You will learn the fundamentals of historical practice - how to discover, conserve and analyse artefacts; determine the context and con-tent of evidence; analyse sources with cutting-edge digital technologies; and master the art of historical storytelling.
At Lincoln you explore the past by getting hands-on with every type of historical source you can imagine.
The history programme also integrates training from our Careers and Employability service to help you continually reflect on the skills that you have developed and help you to sell them to employers.
This module provides students with the opportunity to explore the ways in which the past has been preserved, displayed, reconstructed and represented in contemporary Britain as well as in earlier decades.
It will examine themes such as: Why is the past popular?
Who owns the past?
and, What is the past used for today?
Chairman Mao and Twentieth-Century China introduces students to one of the most important and controversial political figures in the twentieth century: the Communist revolutionary and founding father of the People’s Republic of China, Mao Zedong (1893-1976).
Using Mao as the point of anchorage, some of the key developments in twentieth-century China are explored: the demise of the Qing Dynasty, the May Fourth New Culture Movement, the Sino-Japanese War and Civil War, the Sino-Soviet Split, the Great Leap Forward and Anti-Rightist Movement, the Cultural Revolution, as well as the Reform period that followed Mao’s death and that produced China’s “economic miracle” in the 1980s-1990s.
No prior knowledge of Chinese history, Chinese language, or Marxist philosophy is required.
This is a survey module introducing students to the main ideas of some of the key philosophical thinkers of both the pre-modern and modern periods that have helped to shape Western culture and philosophy (e.g., Plato, Aristotle, Descartes, Locke Berkeley, Hume, Kant, Hegel, Nietzsche, Heidegger, Sartre, Wittgenstein).
As well as knowledge of what the great philosophers have said about the big questions of metaphysics, epistemology, and philosophy of mind, this module aims to provide students with a map with which to navigate later developments in Western philosophy.
This module is designed to introduce students to the three areas of discussion in contemporary moral philosophy.
Metaethics is concerned with the nature of morality itself and questions such as ‘Are there moral facts?’, ‘If there are moral facts, what is their origin?’.
Normative ethics is the attempt to provide a general theory that tells us how to live and enables us to determine what is morally right and wrong.
Applied ethics involves the application of ethical principles to specific moral issues (e.g., abortion, euthanasia, animal rights) and the evaluation of the answers arrived at through this application.
This module aims to introduce students to all three of these branches of ethics.
This module introduces students to selected seminal works in the history of philosophy.
Students will be required to develop a detailed knowledge of two texts and of relevant aspects of their historical background.
Sample texts (which are subject to change in line with staff teaching availability) include Plato’s Meno, Descartes’ Meditations on First Philosophy, Berkeley’s Treatise Concerning the Principles of Human Knowledge, Hume’s An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding, Kant’s Prolegomena To Any Future Metaphysics.
The Tudor and Stuart era (1485-1714) witnessed political revolutions, religious reformations, social upheaval, cultural transformation and expanding global horizons.
This module offers students an introduction to the sources, approaches and methods used by historians to understand this pivotal period.
Besides engaging with Lincoln’s early modern past, students will also consider the merits of British (as opposed to Anglo-centric) perspectives and explore the nature of colonial rule in Ireland and the Atlantic world that marked the beginnings of Britain’s empire.
There will also be a stress on thinking about how historians can recover the stories of peoples hidden in the archive or omitted from older scholarship, including black and non-elite experiences of life in early modern Britain.
Lectures will provide a survey of the political, religious, social and cultural history of the Tudor and Stuart period.
Seminars will give students the opportunity to engage with primary sources and to build their confidence and skills in researching and analysing pre-modern materials.
This module is a chronological survey of US history from the first colonial settlements to the Civil War.
It aims to develop basic knowledge to prepare students for more specialist American history options at Levels 2 and 3.
Within the chronological framework the module will explore a number of themes including Native American-European relations, colony-mother country relations, the formation of the American republic, the debate over slavery and Civil War.
This module is a chronological survey of US history from Reconstruction to the present.
In particular it introduces key themes including the struggle for equality, the character and scope of the US government and the role of the US in the world.
East Asian cultural products such as cinema, pop music, television programmes, and comics have taken the world by storm in recent years.
Together, these products and their industries have exposed East Asian popular culture and its influences to new audiences in new markets.
This module aims to historicise East Asian popular culture, and perceptions and representations of East Asians in other popular cultures.
It aims to equip students with a broader understanding of some of the processes and influences behind the rise of contemporary East Asian popular cultures.
No prior knowledge of any East Asian languages is required.
King Alfred, Viking invasions, the Norman Conquest, Domesday Book, wars of succession spilling over the Channel into Normandy: some of the most emblematic and controversial moments and monuments of English history date to the period students will encounter in this module.
But did this period really see the birth of England?
How was the modest kingdom of Wessex of the late ninth century transformed in the following two centuries into a state that some historians believe to have been unusually precocious, innovative and efficient in its governing structures?
What role did other parties and peoples from the British Isles and further afield play in these developments?
And after the extraordinary events of 1066 – which saw England conquered by the Normans – how do we explain a subsequent political crisis so devastating that the survival of the kingdom itself was in doubt by the middle of the twelfth century?
These questions lie at the heart of this module, which will ask students to examine primary sources and engage in longstanding historiographical debates on a weekly basis.
Special attention will be paid to showing students how historians use source materials of varying kinds from the Middle Ages to develop, nuance or challenge rival interpretations of this formative period in the early English, Anglo-Scandinavian, and Anglo-Norman worlds; in the process, students will increase their knowledge, broaden their skills, and begin to think about the exciting challenges historians face when trying to understand the many complex and contested aspects of England’s medieval past.
This module will show students that the origins of the country we now know as England merit close and detailed examination.
For while historians argue about whether England existed in a recognisable form in 871 when King Alfred became king of the Anglo-Saxon kingdom of Wessex, that England not only existed by the middle of the twelfth century but was one of the most powerful kingdoms in Europe, its territorial influence spreading far beyond the Channel, is a matter of consensus.
How and when did an idea of England take shape and what were the formative historical processes that made that idea reality?
An exploration of these ideas underpins this module, which will introduce students to a range of source materials, both written and archaeological, ranging from coins to chronicles, and castles to collections of documents known as cartularies.
Accordingly, this module will ask students to consider important questions about the origins of government, the beginnings of legal and administrative structures that in some sense persist to this day, and the distribution of the economic resources that made kingship and feudal society possible.
By extension, this module will offer students a chance to acquaint themselves with the skills and techniques that allow historians to handle the complex and wide-ranging sources we rely upon to study the period in question, in the process demystifying the study of the Middle Ages and providing a solid basis for further study of medieval societies.
This module explores the social, political and cultural realities shaped and framed by holy wars during the Middle Ages, with a primary focus on the Mediterranean (ca.
600-1200).
We will explore and question the concept of holy wars from both Christian and Muslim perspectives, considering also the Byzantine responses to Jihad.
Among the different locations under consideration in this module and linked to the framework of Crusades, we will focus on two zones of encounters and conflicts between Islam and Christianity: the Iberian Peninsula and the South of Italy.
Beyond this, we will explore the eastern shores of the Mediterranean by focusing on the struggle for the dominion of the holy city of Jerusalem.
This module will help students develop a broad set of critical and analytical skills, while engaging with a variety of textual, visual and material sources.
Students will gain an understanding of how the interplay of social, religious, political and cultural phenomena contributed to shaping a complex world – that of the crusades – which was more diverse and multilayered than some later historiographical representations might suggest.
This module, ‘The Internet: A Social and Cultural History,’ examines how ordinary people experienced the internet in the late 20th and early 21st centuries.
Using a social and cultural history approach, we will move beyond Whiggish histories of technological developments or innovators, to instead examine how a range of people embraced the internet within their daily lives, navigated multiplying ‘search’ platforms, made decisions around associated hardware like the iphone, and also grappled with new understandings of surveillance in the early 21st century.
Central to the module will be a consideration of the methodologies historians can use to provide histories of internet spaces, activities, and events.
We use a variety of assessment forms from traditional essays and examinations to presentations, critical book reviews, and projects.
Our courses equip you with a wide range of skills and competencies.
We offer numerous ways for you to demonstrate your historical acumen - you may write research essays and project proposals, give presentations, build digital platforms, plan and curate archival exhibitions, design curricula and teaching resources, record oral histories, and script and produce podcasts.
In your final year, you will manage an independent research project (a dissertation) on a topic of your choice with the support of our historians.
The one thing you will not encounter on BA (Hons) History is an exam.
Personalising feedback in this way enables us to account for your individual interests, skills and strengths, helping you to craft your own learning journey with an eye to your future career plans.
Students studying History at Lincoln are privileged to have access to a range of unique local resources in the city of Lincoln itself.
Students enjoy access to the unique Cathedral libraries which house a remarkable collection of medieval manuscripts and rare books.
Built in 1068, Lincoln Castle houses an original 1215 Magna Carta and 1217 Charter of the Forest.
We have privileged access to The Lincoln Museum which contains artefacts from the Stone Age, Roman Lincoln and the Civil War, unearthed during archaeological digs in Lincolnshire.
Discover the region’s World War II history at the International Bomber Command Centre in Lincoln.
Lincolnshire housed over a third of all the WWII Bomber Command Stations and the centre provides one of the most comprehensive records of Bomber Command in the world.
Lincoln was founded in the mid-first-century AD as a legionary base.
It has an abundance of Roman history and heritage above and below ground including Roman ruins and the original Roman Arch at the city’s entrance.
Dr Jamie Wood, who teaches on the course and is the School of History and Heritage Director of Teaching and Learning, has been awarded a Royal Historical Society Award for Teaching Innovation.
The student-managed History Society organises events, visits, and visiting speakers.
Students will have the opportunity to join the society during Welcome Week
Research in the School covers more than 2,000 years of history and several continents, including Byzantium, the Suffragettes, sexuality in the 20th Century in England, Latin America, medical history, and medieval Spain.
Staff maintain a high research profile, with regular attendance at key national and international conferences, and as invited speakers at a wide variety of other institutions' research seminars.
Staff also present their most recent research findings at a regular seminar series.
Our students have the option of a term abroad during the second year, in one of several institutions in the USA, Canada, and Europe, including the University of Ghent in Belgium; Palacky University in the Czech Republic; SUNY Oneonta in the USA; and Wilfred Laurier University in Canada.
Please note that students will be responsible for their own transport, accommodation, and general list costs while studying abroad.
From teaching placements and medieval manuscripts to their favourite night out, Tabby shares her experience on the BA (Hons) History course at the University of Lincoln.
There is an option on this course to undertake a work placement during the final year.
Past placements have included roles in museums, heritage sites, schools, and charities.
Students are encouraged to obtain placements independently, however support is available from both your tutors and the Careers and Employability Team who have dedicated 'Placement Advisers', if required.
Students are responsible for their travel, accommodation, and general living costs during an optional work placement.
History graduates may find employment in a wide range of sectors.
Graduates have gone on to careers in education, government, the civil service, media, journalism, heritage, and the arts.
Some go on to postgraduate study.
Hear from Saffron Mills, a BA (Hons) History graduate, as she shares why she chose to study at Lincoln and how it led to her exciting role at Bacardi.
GCSEs:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English .
Students undertaking an exchange keep their entitlement to UK sources of funding such as student loans and should apply to their awarding body in the normal way, indicating that they will be studying abroad.
Students may also be able to apply to their Local Education Authority or the Student Awards Agency for Scotland for further funding to assist with travel expenses.
Please contact them for further information.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/gehgehum:
F803
The MGeog Human Geography Degree at Lincoln explores social science perspectives on issues of globalisation, sustainability, geo-politics, and cultural change, ranging from the local to the global scale.
This course is designed to develop subject understanding and geographical skills progressively in the context of real-world problems, enabling students to apply their learning to contemporary global challenges, delivering a degree that is relevant to the global, environmental and societal challenges of the 21st century.
This MGeog programme allows students to further their expertise in a chosen area of Geography and to develop their understanding of geographical debates in the context of other disciplines.
It focuses on advanced geographical skills, exposing students to contemporary interdisciplinary debates at the cutting-edge of the field, and enables students to pursue their research interests by completing an original research project that they report in a journal-style article.
Complete an original research project
The fourth year supports students to take ownership of their studies and develop their own unique approach to geography.
The year is heavily research-focused and designed to allow students to produce research that they carry out under staff supervision alongside taught modules to further develop as a postgraduate geographer.
Taught modules currently focus on advanced research methods, contemporary interdisciplinary debates in geography, and foundational stages of research.
Students will also be expected to develop presentation and communication skills related to research dissemination and public understanding, leading to enhanced understanding of social and environmental challenges.
Planetary health is a relatively new idea that emphasises the connection of human, animal, and environmental health.
Planetary health, defined as the status of human civilization and the natural systems on which it depends, draws urgent attention to our planet's severe destruction as a barrier to human progress.
The notion focuses on reversing this trend by better combining human demands with environmental preservation in order to ensure future generations' health and well-being.
To achieve this, a multidisciplinary, cross-sector, and cross-border strategy to changing mindsets and behaviours at all levels, from global to local, will be required.
In a broad this module reflects this cross-sectoral thinking by interrogating health impacts of the abundance and distribution of species, food systems, biogeochemical flows, land use, natural disasters, urbanisation and water scarcity.
Humans are currently the dominant drivers of Earth’s changes, and a sustainable future can only be shaped from a full understanding of the causes and effects of anthropogenic climate and environmental change at a range of spatial scales.
This module provides a framework to understand the context for current and historical environmental changes taking place within the Earth system.
The module will place the Anthropocene within the context of past environmental changes, explore the extent of human disturbances and impacts across the Earth system, and examine possibilities of mitigation and adaptation to these changes.
The module will inform students of the variety of methods used to derive information on past, current and future changes to Earth’s environmental and hydrological regimes, in order to quantity their magnitude, extent and significance.
The research projects run over the summer, although elements of them are likely to take place in the second term (research plan and literature review).
Students are able to choose a research topic from a very broad spectrum of options, primarily linked to the research focuses of the teaching staff.
Supervisors of the projects will provide outline projects but students will also have the opportunity to develop their research projects in specific directions relating to their individual interests
Students are able to develop workplace-relevant skills through a diverse range of assessments including reports, policy briefs, short and long essays, presentations, blogs, field diaries, and podcasts alongside in-class tests and examinations.
History, English, Economics, Sociology, a modern Language, Psychology, Mathematics, Biology, Chemistry, Geology are accepted.
Applied Science, Computing, Engineering, Environmental Sustainability, Information Technology, Pharmaceutical Science.
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points, including 40 points from 15 credits in Geography or a related subject from the fields of History, Philosophy, Theology, Languages, Literature, Culture or Social Sciences, Information, Communications and Technology, Science and Mathematics or Agriculture, Horticultures, and Animal Care.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall to include a Higher Level 5 in Geography or related subject (from the fields of the Arts, studies in Language and Literature, Sciences, Mathematics or Individuals and Societies)
This must be achieved from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent Level 3 qualifications, to include 40 points from Geography or related subject.
A Level: BCC to BBB to include a Grade B in Geography or related subject History, English, Economics, Sociology, a modern Language, Psychology, Mathematics, Biology, Chemistry, Geology, Mathematics
BTEC Extended Diploma in Geography or a related subject: DDM Applied Science, Computing, Engineering, Environmental Sustainability, Information Technology, Pharmaceutical Science (Please include units on application)
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 104 to 112 UCAS points to be achieved from 45 Level 3 credits, including 40 points from 15 credits in Geography or a related subject (from the fields of History, Philosophy, Theology, Languages, Literature, Culture or Social Sciences, Information, Communications and Technology, Science and Mathematics or Agriculture, Horticultures and Animal Care)
International Baccalaureate: 30 points overall to include a Higher Level in Geography or related subject: (from the fields of the Arts, studies in Language and Literature, Sciences, Mathematics or Individuals and Societies)

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/illillub:
W220
Illustrators create exciting concepts and visuals for books, magazines, and advertising campaigns, as well as concept art for games, films, and TV.
On this course you'll learn the drawing and illustration techniques you'll need in the professional creative world, with a focus on craft, versatility, and imagination.
In our large professional studio you'll explore both traditional and digital approaches to illustration and find your own distinctive way to bring your ideas to life, from creative problem solving and idea generation to drawing, painting, printmaking, and digital design.
As well as developing your own personal creative portfolio, you'll have the chance to put your skills to the test with live industry briefs and the opportunity to enter international creative competitions.
Illustrators bring stories to life with dynamic visuals and concepts for a range of audiences from books, magazines, and advertising to concept art for games, films, and TV.
On our illustration programme, you can develop the foundational image making skills needed to be a successful illustrator, emphasizing craftsmanship, creativity, innovation, and imagination.
Working in our professional studio environment, you'll have the opportunity to explore both traditional and digital approaches, discovering your unique creative voice and bringing your ideas to life.
From creative problem-solving and idea generation to drawing, painting, printmaking, digital illustration, and much more, you can build a portfolio that reflects your ambitions.
You will also be able to tackle real-world projects through live industry briefs and have the opportunity to showcase your work in international competitions from your first year onwards.
Gain industry insight from guest speakers
Subject area ranked in top 20 in the UK*
Specialist illustration studios and equipment
Access to industry-standard software and technology
Enter international student design competitions
A professional network of alumni
*Out of 84 ranking institutions Complete University Guide 2025.
This BA (Hons) Illustration degree aims to help students to explore their personal direction, as an illustrator in preparation for a career in industry.
By delving into both traditional and contemporary approaches to illustration, this course deals not just with 'what it is', but also what you think it should be.
Tutors place an emphasis on experimentation, and on developing an ability to visually communicate with audiences by seeing relationships between image and text, or the spoken word.
The course is also focused on helping students to contextualise the profession of illustration in relation to society.
Students are able to  develop a professional portfolio of work by engaging with independent, collaborative, and industry-led briefs and projects, and by developing a range of professional skills that will serve them throughout your career.
The first year of study focuses on helping students develop visual and conceptual skills through drawing, painting, printmaking, collage, and  associated digital, design, illustration, and thinking processes.
This is followed, in the second year, by the study of editorial and book illustration aimed at selected clients and audiences.
During this year, ethically and culturally orientated issues and debates are explored.
In the final year, students may have the opportunity to respond to contemporary illustration briefs, including 'live' competitions.
The focus is on enabling students to produce a portfolio that showcases their unique, individual abilities and a bespoke approach to illustration.
Studio practice is a key element of this course, and students will have the opportunity to spend a lot time in a creative studio environment.
Teaching and learning experiences may include studio activities, peer groups, lectures, workshops, seminars, and group tutorials.
Students can also benefit from face to face consultation with your tutor during portfolio reviews and around self-directed projects.
Our BA (Hons) Illustration degree is designed to empower you to find your unique path as an illustrator and prepare you to step confidently into the creative industries.
You are able to examine both traditional and contemporary illustration methods, exploring not only what illustration is but also what it could be.
Tutors emphasise experimentation and the power of visual communication, guiding you to make impactful connections between image, text, and the spoken word.
The course also encourages you to view illustration within a broader societal context, deepening your understanding of the practice and the power and influence illustration can have over our world.
Throughout the programme, you can build a professional portfolio through independent, collaborative, and industry-driven projects.
Alongside this, you can develop essential skills to support a lifelong creative career.
In the first year, you can develop your existing skills and explore new ones, including drawing, painting, printmaking, 3D, digital, as well as learning how to tap into creative thinking to generate original ideas.
This year establishes the foundations for visual and conceptual growth going forward into second and third year.
The second year shifts the focus to more conceptual and narrative illustration for specific audiences, where you can engage with culturally and ethically relevant themes, as well as your ability to visually tell stories, through developing your illustration and making skills.
In the third year, you are able to begin to define your own briefs, building a portfolio that highlights your distinctive approach and voice, and engage with the professional aspects of the illustration industry.
The aim is for you to leave with a body of work that demonstrates your individual skills, talents and creative voice.
Studio practice sits at the heart of our programme, giving you extensive time in a collaborative, creative environment.
Learning experiences include hands-on studio work, lectures, workshops, seminars, and group tutorials.
Individual portfolio reviews and one-on-one sessions with tutors provide further tailored support for developing self-directed projects.
This module is designed to introduce students to a range of methodologies employed by illustrators when working with images in sequence.
It explores the potential of using sequential imagery to communicate ideas and visual narrative.
Students are exposed to examples of both the historical context and contemporary practice of visual sequences, pictorial progression and animation, across a range of genres.
The module aims to provide students with an understanding of the way illustrators explore a range of visual solutions to a creative brief.
Skills and understanding are developed through the creation of still and moving imagery using a range of media, materials, and technology.
Students are encouraged to broaden their understanding of the ways that contemporary illustrators can use combinations of digital and analogue media and methods in the production of work.
Fundamental issues concerning the production of still and moving digital imagery, animation, and sequential illustration are explored via project briefs.
In addition, formal considerations such as composition, layout, structure, and presentation are also explored to enable informed decision making in the production of sequential illustrations.
The primary focus of this module is the development of essential drawing and making skills fundamental to the study and practice of illustration.
The importance of observational drawing in image making cannot be overestimated and continues to underpin picture-making even when source imagery or imagined scenarios are utilised.
Essential in understanding size, scale, perspective, and overall composition observational skills should be maintained throughout the programme of study and continue to inform practice in an established career in illustration.
Throughout the module, students are required to focus on the language of visual representation via the study of the fundamentals of looking and recording visual phenomena.
The module also examines accepted methods of figuration, visual codes, pictorial composition, and exploration of ideas associated with representation.
This module is designed to allow students to explore and develop their practical skills while also developing an understanding of the process of illustration from idea generation to project realisation.
Students are required to create illustrations using a range of appropriate media and approaches to convey content, messages, and narratives to specific audiences in a variety of contexts.
Students are encouraged to develop and apply their awareness of the principals of picture making, pictorial language, semiotics, aesthetics, and visual narrative via project briefs that reveal the scope and reach of illustration practice.
This module extends and challenges the framework of technical and creative skills that have been acquired in the exploration of narrative picture-making in previous and adjacent modules.
It encourages students to creatively and practically employ divergent thinking, in addition to convergent thinking, in the manufacture of design solutions - specifically illustrative outcomes.
The aim of this module is to facilitate an awareness of demographics, visual codes, and communication theory, in combination with the refinement of the practical skills.
This understanding will be beneficial for students developing their own distinct visual signature in a competitive market place.
This module is designed to provide students with the opportunity to further develop their experiential understanding of the key principles underlying the creation and production of illustrated narrative structures.
The module explores the fundamentals of professional illustration practice with primary focus on book illustration.
It encourages the continuation of an exploration of materials, media, processes, techniques, and technologies appropriate to the execution of practical work.
The overall aim is to establish knowledge and understanding of the principles of narrative structure and storytelling in illustrated books.
Students are afforded the opportunity to build on prior knowledge and practice through intellectual examination and practical investigation into a range of genre, the further development and application of sequential illustration, the role of a character in a narrative structure, and formal continuity.
Students will be encouraged to work creatively, employing a range of skills in order to make informed decisions in the materialisation of project briefs.
This module aims to further develop students' skills and understanding of the intellectual, creative, and practical processes necessary for the creation of content-centred imagery appropriate to the evolving illustration industry.
The relationship between words and pictures is further explored through projects that encourage the development of playful and engaging word and image association techniques.
Acknowledgement and appreciation of historical and contemporary illustration practice is further established and reinforced through lectures, seminars, group critiques and tutorials.
Experimentation with a range of media, materials and processes beyond orthodox painting and drawing, is actively encouraged to extend and enhance the presentation of finished artwork.
This module confirms and extends the multitude of working strategies applicable within contemporary illustration practice.
A range of projects reflecting the breadth of contemporary illustration provides students the opportunity to apply their analytical and practical skills to visually interpret and communicate a multiplicity of complex themes, texts, and ideas within their artwork.
Independent learning is encouraged to develop the necessary confidence required to produce engaging, individual solutions to set briefs.
This modules enables students to shape their learning according to their career aspirations, and academic and personal goals.
Students elect an individual and personalised programme of study, establishing their own criteria outcomes with practical briefs.
Emphasis is upon self-managed, confident, independent learning and the production of a portfolio of high-quality illustrations.
This module confirms understanding of the professional environment of illustration and empowers students to focus upon their own individual creative and professional development.
Research based acquisition of information and knowledge, combined with refined, industry standard practical skills underpins the production of accomplished, complex and content centred illustrations.
Students are expected to demonstrate competence in developing ideas and practical outcomes appropriate to the requirements of a client brief.
The module is designed to outline the role of the client, the agent, the publisher, the audience and/or consumer.
In addition, understanding, exploration and application of copyright, the Intellectual property framework, self-promotion, and a range of business practices involved in the illustration industry provide business and self-development skills that are essential to professional practice.
This module offers an insight into the world of visual storytelling, guiding you through the diverse techniques illustrators use to create compelling sequences of images.
Through practical project briefs and experimenting with an array of media, you can uncover how sequential imagery can capture ideas, craft narratives, and bring stories to life.
Through exploring both historical and contemporary examples, this module reveals how visual sequences, from comics books and storyboarding to animation, can evoke emotion and engage audiences across genres.
This module centers on building the foundational drawing skills that are essential to an illustrator and exploring other processes such as printmaking and 3D model making skills to widen the scope of your creative voice.
At the heart of this module is learning how to engage with observational drawing—an invaluable skill that anchors image-making, even when illustrators work from references or imagined scenes.
Through practice and workshops, you can explore the visual language of representation, learning to capture and convey what you see in powerful ways.
This module guides you through key techniques and processes, fostering a rich understanding of the fundamentals.
You’ll also explore how representation can be both an art and a message, allowing you to experiment with and expand your approach to illustrating ideas.
This module invites you to explore the creative process of illustration, from sparking initial ideas to bringing a project to life.
You can experiment with various media and techniques to craft illustrations that effectively communicate content, convey messages, and tell stories tailored for specific audiences and contexts.
Guided by project briefs, you’ll be able to develop an intuitive grasp of the principles of image-making, visual language, semiotics, aesthetics, and narrative techniques.
Structured tasks showcase the wide-ranging impact and potential of illustration, encouraging you to think critically and creatively about how illustrations can resonate with diverse settings and audiences.
This journey is all about expanding your skillset while building a solid foundation in the art and craft of visual storytelling.
This module builds on and pushes the boundaries of the technical and creative skills developed in Level 1.
You’ll be encouraged to apply practical, conceptual, and creative solutions to create innovative and impactful illustrations.
The module focuses on cultivating an understanding of audience demographics to enable effective and creative visual communication, alongside honing practical skills.
This blend of knowledge and technique is key to helping you craft a unique visual style that stands out in today’s competitive marketplace.
Through a rich exploration of materials, media, techniques, and technologies, you can refine your approach to practical work and expand your toolkit for visual storytelling.
At its core, the module aims to help you build a solid understanding of narrative structure and storytelling principles within illustrated books.
You can expand on previous skills through critical analysis and hands-on experimentation across various genres, delving into sequential illustration, character roles in storytelling, and the flow of narrative continuity.
This module is designed to deepen your mastery of the intellectual, creative, and practical aspects of crafting imagery with a strong focus on creative content—a skill increasingly relevant in today’s evolving illustration industry.
Through a variety of projects, you can explore the dynamic relationship between words and images, developing techniques that playfully and effectively link text with visuals.
You can also gain a richer appreciation of both historical and contemporary illustration practices, reinforced through engaging lectures, seminars, group critiques, and tutorials.
This module builds on prior learning, exploring the diverse range of strategies used in contemporary illustration practice.
Through a variety of managed self-defined projects that reflect the scope of modern illustration, you will have the opportunity to apply both analytical and practical skills to visually interpret and communicate complex themes, texts, and ideas in your work.
You also get the opportunity to explore copyright, intellectual property, and your own ethical approach to illustration, enabling you to confidently negotiate the professional world of the creative industries.
Independent learning is a key focus, helping you to develop the confidence needed to create unique, compelling solutions to set briefs.
This approach encourages you to explore your own creative voice while mastering the skills required to tackle diverse challenges in the world of illustration.
This module empowers you to tailor your learning experience to align with your career goals, academic aspirations, and personal interests.
You can design a personalised programme of study, setting your own criteria and outcomes through practical briefs.
The focus is on fostering self-managed, independent learning, allowing you to develop the confidence needed to produce a high-quality illustration portfolio that reflects your unique vision and skills.
This module aims to deepen your understanding of the professional landscape of illustration, empowering you to focus on your personal, creative, and professional growth.
The module outlines the roles of key stakeholders in the industry, including clients, agents, publishers, and audiences.
In addition, you can explore important business concepts such as contracts, pricing, branding, marketing, self-promotion and entrepreneurship, equipping you with the essential skills for professional success and self-development in the illustration industry.
You may also have the opportunity to engage with live-briefs or competitions as part of the curriculum.
At the University of Lincoln, we aim to equip you with a thoughtful and critical mindset, preparing you to become a leader in the creative industries.
To encourage this, our comprehensive facilities provide a supportive, dynamic environment for creative growth.
You can access workshops, labs, studios, and industry-standard equipment, with guidance from highly skilled technicians.
This environment, along with our large purpose-built design studios, empowers you to expand your skills and knowledge, fully preparing you for the demands of the creative field.
Move through our dedicated illustration studio space in 3D and see exactly where you could explore your creativity.
We want to create employable graduates, and as part of the course you can undertake a module focused on preparing for a successful career in the creative industry.
Designed to foster confidence in your professionalism you can explore illustration through a lens of business skills, research, self-promotion, and presentation.
There is also a strong emphasis on self-promotion, agility, utilising existing skills in other creative fields, and building professional integrity.
Innovation is actively encouraged throughout the course, whether this is discovering new markets, materials, processes, or engaging with emerging technologies such as VR.
There may also be opportunities to take part in live projects across the course, providing opportunities for you to gain valuable experience interacting with industry professionals from areas including publishing, the music industry, tourism, conservation, and many more.
We run an ‘Industry Week’ across the School of Creative Arts where speakers from across the design industry are invited to speak to students.
You are encouraged to attend talks from speakers from across the spectrum of design practice to inform your own approach to illustration.
We also regularly invite guest speakers to give you an insight into the broader illustration community.
Past speakers have included Graham Rawle, Jonny Hannah, Lydia Monks, Derek Brazell, Gareth Brooks, Scott Garrett, Tom Gauld, and Jade Sarson, providing valuable perspectives on diverse practices in illustration.
You may have the opportunity to participate in national and international study trips.
These extra-curricular visits, which in the past have included places such as New York for publishing and advertising agencies, the Bologna Book Fair, The House of Illustration (now the Quentin Blake Centre for Illustration), the International Comic Strip Festival in Angoulême , and other museum and exhibition tours, offer exposure to global industry events as well as inspiration for students’ own practice.
Students who join these trips will be responsible for covering their own travel, accommodation, and living expenses.
Students are provided with access to the Adobe Creative Cloud suite of software which includes Photoshop and Illustrator, LinkedIn Learning as well as the Microsoft Office suite.
One of the key ways the course prepared me for freelance life is the way they let us manage our own time and work independently, as time management and independence are key skills for freelancers.
Ellie Roe
BA (Hons) Illustration
Illustration graduates have gone on to develop successful international careers in illustration and art direction for advertising agencies, publishing houses, in graphic novels, zines, comics, as well as book illustration.
They've also gone on to work in games design, storyboarding for cinema, graphic design, and animation.
An increasing number of entrepreneurial graduates have launched their own businesses and pursued careers in the broader creative industries.
GCSE's :  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English.
Materials
Students on the illustration programme are likely to incur some additional costs for specialist art materials throughout the duration of their three years of study.
Equipment and some specialist materials are supplied by the School, especially in respect to printmaking, 3D modelling, and Adobe Creative software suite,  which enables the production of digital material.
However, students will have to provide their own drawing materials, paper, pencils, sketchbooks etc.
A materials list is provided at the beginning of the academic year.
Students are not expected to buy everything immediately but build up an individual resource of materials suited to their interests and their project work.
Students can purchase art materials from the art shop located nearby in the Nicola de la Haye building.
The course  has recently increased its digital resources for students within the studio.
However, blended learning approaches (a mixture of online and studio learning) allow students (where applicable) greater freedom to learn where and when they wish.
In this way, students may wish to purchase a laptop, tablet and stylus, prior to or during their study depending on their personal approach to illustration production.
Study Visits
Students on this course may have the option to take part in international study visits.
The University covers the costs of mandatory field trips , but students who choose to participate in optional study visits are expected to cover their own travel, accommodation, and general living costs.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/intintub:
K120
W250
Interior architects shape the spaces in which we live our lives, combining aesthetics with philosophy and function.
The Interior Architecture and Design degree at Lincoln takes a multi-disciplinary approach.
It positions the subject between the academically rigorous profession of architecture and the fast-paced world of contemporary visual culture and design.
The course provides students with the opportunity to develop their practical design knowledge within specialist studios.
It is taught by staff who are active professionals and researchers such as Tonia Warsap, Rosie Elvin, and Begüm Ulusoy.
Students can explore the disciplines within the design industry and building technology methods, while developing their own creative, individual style.
Their studio learning is enhanced by a programme of lectures and seminars which aim to provide a thorough education in the social and historical context of architecture.
During the course, there are opportunities for students to gain practical work experience for real clients and building developments, including placements with a wide range of interior design and architectural practices.
You can find out more about the work of our staff and students by following our Interior Architecture and Design Twitter account https://twitter.com/iadlincolnuni or by following us on Instagram https://www.instagram.com/iadlincolnuni/ .
Subject ranked 2nd in the UK for graduate prospects*
Enter student design competitions
Access specialist facilities to hone creative practice
Opportunities to work on live projects with real clients
Take part in optional study trips
Opportunity to study abroad in an exchange programme
*Complete University Guide 2025 (out of 50 ranking institutions).
Three-dimensional thinking is the focus of the first year and it is explored through a variety of media.
Students are challenged to consider how the design process works and begin to use the skills of planning and modelling.
The history and theory of architecture and design are also examined, providing students with the chance to contextualise their practice with a solid theoretical understanding of the subject.
In their second year, students are introduced to the concept of social relationships and the responsibilities and challenges that face interior architects.
In the third year, students are required to complete an individual comprehensive design project in an area of personal interest, demonstrating the skills they have acquired as a designer.
Professional practice is emphasised at this stage, supporting students to develop the skills necessary for careers in the industry.
Modules are presented in two streams: the design process and the research process.
The design process incorporates conceptual, technical, and professional knowledge areas, as well as conception development, resolution, and communication.
The research process stream focuses on design theory and contextual material, enabling students to develop research skills.
Working in a studio-based environment, students can develop and evolve their skills through stimulating briefs and live projects exploring space, light and structure.
In parallel to the studio sessions students engage in computer-based tutorials where they build their skills based knowledge.
Theoretical principles are taught in a lecture/seminar environment, interior architects and designers are communicators and it is important that they are able to research, formulate opinions, and develop topical insight.
Contact time can be in studio sessions, seminars or lectures and may vary from module to module and from academic year to year.
Student may also have the opportunity to broaden their horizons with a year working in industry.
This is an excellent opportunity to gain industry experience and build networks ready for pursing a graduate role after university.
The Design 2 stream forms the creative core of the programme, immersing students in studio-based environments that simulate professional design practice.
This stream equips students with essential skills in observation, visual literacy, critical inquiry, experimentation, and iterative problem-solving.
Through problem-based learning, students tackle real-world design challenges, learning to identify opportunities, develop innovative interventions, and deliver thoughtful, responsive solutions.
Collaborative projects foster teamwork and reflective dialogue, reinforcing the iterative and evolving nature of the design process.
This hands-on, experiential approach nurtures creativity, critical thinking, and entrepreneurial design skills while building adaptability and resilience essential for success in a dynamic industry.
By combining experiential learning with professional practice, the design stream empowers students to develop design agency, collaborative skills, and innovation—preparing them to graduate as confident, industry-ready professionals.
This Design 2 stream invites students to transform an existing building into an innovative, multi-purpose space, combining adaptive reuse with creative spatial interventions.
Through research, analysis, and design development, students respond to real-world challenges of heritage, sustainability, user experience, and professional practice.
The module fosters critical thinking, creativity, and professional communication, preparing students to produce and present industry-ready design proposals for complex interior environments.
The Interpret 2 stream develops critical research skills, design theory, and contextual analysis to inform evidence-based, research-led design practice.
This module introduces students to the principles of environmental psychology, exploring how interior, architectural, and urban spaces influence human behaviour, perception, and well-being.
Students investigate the relationship between users and environments, analysing how psychological, cultural, and social factors shape spatial experience.
Through lectures and seminars, research is progressively integrated into practice, enabling students to analyse, critique, and communicate ideas while developing awareness of the human-centred considerations in design.
The module fosters intellectual curiosity and positions design as a reflective, research-led discipline.
By synthesizing theory and practice, students develop independent, research-driven insights alongside professional academic skills in visual, verbal, and written communication.
This module builds on students’ developing research and contextual-analysis skills by focusing on adaptation within interior architecture.
Through case studies of transformed interiors—from heritage buildings to underutilised urban spaces—students investigate the cultural, historical and ethical factors that inform the repurposing of existing fabric.
Emphasis is placed on balancing conservation and innovation, integrating sustainable strategies and respecting material archeology while introducing new spatial narratives.
By synthesising theoretical frameworks with investigation, learners will produce evidence-led proposals that demonstrate independent, research-driven solutions and professional-level communication skills.
The Realise 2 stream equips students with the skills and knowledge to transform design concepts into professional, technically resolved interior architecture proposals.
Through a focus on adaptive reuse, students learn to navigate the complexities of designing within existing buildings, addressing structure, materials, sustainability, and building regulations.
Working independently and collaboratively, students produce a complete technical design package and a professional presentation, preparing them for the realities of interior architecture practice and the demands of industry.
The Practice 2 streams' core objective is to cultivate a dynamic learning experience where students actively engage with diverse creative and design disciplines.
Shaped by the research and practice expertise of our staff, students are guided through a comprehensive exploration of the chosen specialist area.
This ensures that students not only gain theoretical knowledge but also acquire practical skills, integrating the latest insights and methodologies.
The annual updates to the areas of study is another distinctive feature that reflects the dynamic landscape of the interior architecture and design.
This adaptability ensures that students encounter new challenges and remain at the forefront of industry developments, fostering a learning environment that is consistently relevant, contemporary, and responsive to the ever-evolving demands of interior architecture and design.
the module also places a strong emphasis on ethical and cultural awareness within design.
The Work Placement Year aims to give students a continuous experience of full-time work within an organisation.
The Work Placement Year constitutes a minimum of 24 weeks work placement during an academic year, funded by full-time paid employment, normally taking place between year 2 and year 3.
(It should be noted that leave does not count as part of the 24 weeks.)
All students on the Work Placement Year as part of their full-time undergraduate study will remain enrolled with the University during the period of placement and receive support.
Students originally enrolled on 3 year programmes wishing to transfer to the 4 year programme must do so before the commencement of their placement, should gain the consent of their funders, where appropriate, and advise the University of their intentions before the September enrolment.
Students on three-year programmes who suspend their studies for a year to gain work experience will not be officially recognised as placement students on the Placement Year, will not be enrolled for the Work Placement Year will not be supported by the University and are not considered as students of the University for that year.
The Design 3 stream serves as the creative core of the programme, immersing students in studio-based learning environments that emulate professional design practice.
Emphasising the stream equips students to observe, analyse visual literacy, critical inquiry, and iterative problem-solving, experiment, and communicate ideas effectively.
Through problem-based learning, students engage with real-world design challenges, developing the ability to identify opportunities, propose innovative interventions, and craft thoughtful, responsive solutions.
This hands-on, experiential approach fosters creativity, critical thinking, and entrepreneurial design skills while nurturing adaptability and resilience essential for navigating a dynamic industry.
It builds design agency and innovation through experiential learning aligned with professional practice and fosters creativity, problem-solving, and entrepreneurial thinking for industry-ready graduates.
The Interpret 3 stream develops critical research skills, design theory, and contextual analysis to inform evidence-based, research-led design.
Students learn to analyse, critique, and communicate ideas while gaining awareness of cultural, social, and technological influences.
Through lectures and seminars, research is progressively integrated into practice, enabling students to create independent, research-driven design solutions.
It builds critical thinking, research literacy, and historical awareness to support contextually grounded design.
By embedding research-led inquiry, the module fosters intellectual curiosity, positioning design as reflective, evidence-based practice.
Research is progressively integrated, enabling students to synthesise theory and practice into independent, research-driven solutions.
The Realise 3 stream focuses on translating ideas into resolved outcomes through digital literacy, technical communication, and construction knowledge.
Students explore materials, technologies, and regulatory standards to produce technically competent, visually compelling design documentation.
By engaging with enquiry-based learning, they ensure their designs are both visionary and buildable.
It bridges creative vision with technical execution, preparing students to communicate design solutions effectively across disciplines.
An introduction to conceptual and creative processes in design production; thinking through drawing, graphic communication, and conceptualisation.
Essential three-dimensional skills and manipulation of space, which includes a consideration of design and spatial elements, scale, and representation.
The module serves as an initial immersion into discovery-mode learning: students produce knowledge through their own design and inquiry.
Visual narratives, as the expression of stories through visual media, are introduced by considering the individual in the environment.
Students are introduced to the use of spatial and narrative typologies as possible design strategies.
Students collaborate with academics in small design projects by applying the essential design skills previously acquired.
The module consolidates the learning and teaching of the preceding modules: student projects are structured with a member of the academic staff to introduce students to autonomy and accountability in the definition of projects and in the determination of outputs.
As an expression of their own agency, students define their own project within the discipline from a matrix of choices; a learning agreement is required.
The focus is on installation or insertion as modes of production which includes temporary, transitory, mobile, or transient typologies.
The design of a small volumetric environment in a defined physical context.
Design is considered as a form of inquiry to introduce research methods.
Students are made aware of design ideologies and societal, geo-political, and cultural drivers as generators for design.
Students are introduced to reflective practice and accountability by keeping a research diary.
Delivery is through academic presentation, including verbal (written and spoken) and visual communication (digital and physical).
The module is presented from a conceptual and strategic point of departure to develop and enhance previously acquired fundamental design skills.
The focus is on insertion as a mode of production which considers issue, type, user/audience, theory/concept, and site/venue.
Content analysis, interpretation and thematic planning is to focus on the user/audience or content as design generators.
The module takes the integration of behavior, narrative and technology into account when developing spatial proposals.
The built environment or contextual brief is considered as a cultural artefact which is informed by its context.
Insertion is the mode of production under consideration which includes long-lived typologies.
The technical resolution and communication of a previously developed design concept or new project.
The module is student-led with a concentration on design development, detail, and specificity.
Selected visual research methods are covered in greater depth.
The relationship between theory and practice is considered.
Students are introduced to meta-theoretical perspectives and expected to formulate their own normative positions in response to context and paradigm.
Reflective practice in collaboration is fostered; further at the completion of the module students are expected to be proficient in academic presentation, including verbal (written and spoken) and visual communication.
This module provides an opportunity for students in the Lincoln School of Design to spend a semester in Year 2 studying at one of the University’s partner institutions.
In academic terms, during the semester abroad students undertake a course load at the partner institution of equivalent standard to that of the semester A programme at Lincoln.
Participation in study-abroad also offers unique opportunities for personal student development.
Although students will be supported through the application process by the module coordinator and colleagues at the partner institution, much of the responsibility for organising the time abroad rests with students.
Study abroad offers the basic experience of adapting to and working effectively within a different academic culture.
A limited number of places will be available each year, and participation is subject to the School's approval, based on the above and on students’ records of attendance, academic achievement, and participation.
The definition of an interior treatise topic to incorporate issue, type, user, theory, and site.
The negotiation and definition of a self-directed programme of design investigation.
The determination of appropriate interior outputs to provide evidence of meeting the programme outcomes.
The implementation of a self-directed programme of design investigation.
The detailed exploration and communication of a self-directed programme of design investigation.
Students are expected to complete a large scale self-directed research study to support the design treatise.
Formative assessment takes place in the studio with continual feedback during studio sessions.
Summative assessment includes practical examinations, and verbal and visual presentations which take place at the end of each module.
Discover more about Interior Architecture and Design at Lincoln from our Undergraduate course to our Postgraduate course.
Through instilling in our design students a thoughtful and critical approach to the way they think about design and apply their creative skills, we aim to prepare them to be leaders in the creative industries.
Students have regular access to workshops, labs, and industry-standard equipment, as well as highly knowledgeable technicians.
This environment can help students to develop their knowledge and skills, and complements our purpose-built design studios where students have their own space, giving them the opportunity to work independently and with their peers.
Students are currently provided with free access to Adobe Creative Cloud and Autodesk software, as well as Lynda.com for the duration of their studies.
A practical studio culture is in place at the University of Lincoln and as well as striving to provide a stimulating and creative environment, this way of working aims to prepare students for their future career in architecture and design.
It also allows students the opportunity to take responsibility for how they develop a space, explore their own visual style, and to engage with other students and staff.
Each year group is designated an area, and each student has a space in this area.
The School encourages students to engage with the studio environment and work with peers.
Students have the opportunity to work on live projects and competitions.
For example, students worked with YMCA Lincolnshire and the design fee was used for our end of year show.
One of our students also won the Interior Educator Award in the Social Justice category for their project One Size Fits All.
Graduates have gone on to careers in various areas of the discipline, working in a wide range of interior, architectural, or design practices nationally and internationally.
Some choose to continue their studies with a postgraduate degree.
However, depending on the media/materials chosen by the student, there may be additional costs for incurred for printing and materials.
Mandatory field trip costs are covered by the University, but optional study visits are at each student’s own expense.
Previous optional trips have included Yorkshire Sculpture Park, The Hepworth Wakefield, and Hull - UK city of culture 2017.
Those who choose to do a study abroad exchange programme or year long placement do not pay tuition fees for that year but are responsible for covering any travel, accommodation, and general living costs.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/busibmub:
N/A
NR1X
Global connections and the ability to strike deals across national boundaries are at the heart of the worldwide economy, and this course aims to provide graduates with a solid grasp of international business processes and mechanics.
The programme provides a grounding in business and management topics, and offers opportunities to develop an expertise in international business.
You can study a range of topics including business environment, trade and international business, cross cultural management, human resource management, and strategy.
Spend a term learning at an overseas university
Explore business in an international context
The first year introduces you to the topics of marketing, economics, and international business, while developing independent critical thinking skills.
The second year progresses to cover aspects such as European business environment, operations management, ethics sustainability, and international business environment.
Those wishing to experience studying abroad can do so in their second year as part of the University's exchange programme.
Previous students have enjoyed placements in North America, Mexico, France, Germany, Malta, Italy, Spain, Romania, Finland, and China.
Students who choose to study abroad are responsible for covering their own travel, accommodation, and general living costs.
In the final year, you are able to choose from a range of modules to reflect your own interests, including financial management for business, crisis management, digital marketing and E-commerce, and global competition and regulation.
This module aims to provide students with an understanding of the background and context of the contemporary business environment as it has been shaped within the European Union by the policies and programmes developed at a European level.
It draws on theories and concepts from the disciplines of economics, politics, and history.
BREXIT is a theme.
This module aims to provide the non-economist with an amalgam of macroeconomic theory and contemporary comment which prepares students for a further study in economics.
This module builds on students’ knowledge of macroeconomics from earlier in the course and emphasises the role of macroeconomics as an applied discipline.
This module aims to equip students with the ability to use techniques to interpret changing macroeconomic aggregates, event, and policies.
Geo-politics is not a new concept, however, recent global events have connected the international landscape further.
This module, enables learners to explore, debate and critically analyse how geo-politics help decision-makers broaden their horizons, enrich their strategies and enable them to become inclusive and forward thinking organisations.
How they have learnt from history and evolved by integrating thinking with a global perspective, enabling learners to develop understanding of what it means to be a worker in a borderless world.
Enabling them to consider what future skills are required to exist and succeed.
The module aims to develop an appreciation and understanding of the theoretical and practical issues in the application of statistical methods in business decision making.
In addition, this course supports students’ preparation for using econometrics software/ packages (Excel and Stata) that are key for business students who wish to pursue further studies at post graduate or a professional career in economics, finance or related fields.
What is the relationship between changing industrial structures and welfare?
How do market power and competition drive innovation?
How are people and communities protected by regulations?
These and other related questions will be addressed by this module.
This module explores some key areas of microeconomic policy to facilitate the strategic adaptation of businesses and institutions in an increasingly complex and integrated global economic system.
The module explores the role of macroeconomics as an applied discipline, seeking to exploit its contemporary and multifaceted nature by focusing on issues facing the world’s economies featured in the Financial Times.
Students will be able to integrate real-world events within the theoretical framework.
The purpose of this module is to develop students’ awareness and understanding of the dynamics of globalisation, the role of international business as both cause and consequence of that process and the variety of entry strategies adopted by international businesses.
Students will have the chance to develop their knowledge of key concepts, terminologies and theories on international business.
This module is designed to enhance the knowledge, understanding and skills students need to foster an international career.
The module aims to increase awareness of cultural diversity and the experience of living in different countries and cultural contexts.
Students will have the opportunity to start planning for their careers and developing their employability skills for international settings.
Completion leads to a BA (Hons) International Business Management (with Professional Practice); without the placement, it's a BA (Hons) International Business Management.
Successful completion results in a BA (Hons) International Business Management (International Study Year).
Studying a degree that has an ‘international’ perspective was very important to me.
As a foreign student, I enjoyed studying all my modules with a focus on multiple work and business cultures.
My degree prepared me for real-life scenarios as recently after graduation, I started working with an American company.
Valeria Méndez
BA (Hons) International Business Management
Students on this course have the chance to spend a term learning at an overseas university as part of our exchange programme.
The study placement takes place in the second year.
Students share classes with local students, allowing the opportunity to examine the nature of their chosen subject area in the host country, as well as the chance to socialise in another culture.
Previous students have enjoyed placements in North America, Mexico, France, Germany, Spain, Romania, Finland, and China.
I chose to study this course due to the flexibility in the modules which mean you can really make the degree your own.
Equally, you can have the opportunity to both learn a foreign language and study abroad as part of the course, which is something that wouldn't have been possible for me without studying this course.
George Broadhurst
Our BA (Hons) International Business Management is designed to prepare graduates for careers in diverse areas of business.
Past students have progressed to roles such as recruitment consultant, operations manager, international wealth adviser, business analyst, and business development manager, while others have continued their studies at postgraduate level.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/ististub:
L250
Professionals working in international relations have an in-depth understanding of the impact of political, economic, and cultural forces and seek to balance these dynamics in order to maintain peace and trade in a complex and globalised world, where pockets of tension can rapidly escalate beyond borders.
International Relations at Lincoln aims to provide a structured way of understanding and influencing the cross-border factors shaping our societies: security, conflict, inequality, development, intercultural understanding, and human rights.
Teaching on the course is driven by the latest developments in the discipline and students are taught by academics who are currently engaged in research across a range of specialisms including terrorism, gender and sexuality, migration, security, international political economy, war crimes and genocide, the politics of global health, and the European Union.
A range of modules allows students to build their professional skills and enhance employability.
An example of the innovative and high-quality curriculum offered is found in the Model United Nations module where students can develop negotiating skills and practice diplomacy in a simulation of the UN General Assembly.
This interdisciplinary programme draws upon politics, economics, history, sociology, international law, geography, and cultural studies to explore issues such as conflict, global inequalities, sovereignty, and human rights.
International relations at Lincoln aims to provide a structured way of understanding and influencing the cross-border factors shaping our societies: security, conflict, inequality, development, intercultural understanding, and human rights.
This interdisciplinary programme builds a range of professional skills by drawing upon politics, economics, history, sociology, international law, geography, and cultural studies to explore issues such as conflict, global inequalities, sovereignty, and human rights.
The first year of the course introduces central issues and concepts in international relations, global and UK politics, and the broader social sciences.
In years two and three, the course explores the theoretical foundations of the subject and offers students a range of optional modules in specialist areas spanning global, national, and local levels of analysis to allow a tailored approach depending on students' own interests.
Students can take this further in the third year, where they are required to undertake an independent study in a research area of their choice.
This programme uses a variety of teaching and learning methods including lectures and seminars, group projects, and workshops.
In an average week students are expected to attend a lecture in each of their modules, with a follow-up seminar.
Seminars are usually more informal, with the aim of enabling students to discuss the topic with their tutor in a smaller group.
They sometimes provide students with the opportunity to work together in groups to prepare presentations or reports.
In addition to lectures and seminars, staff use a range of media to deliver teaching materials including blogs, video, and social media platforms.
Some modules include regular screenings of documentaries and movies designed to examine and prompt discussion on the presentation of international politics in the media and popular culture.
A range of external speakers including those involved in politics at local and national level also aim to provide an insight into the real world of politics.
Simulation- and problem-based learning is a distinctive feature of the programme, for example students gain experience preparing foreign policy briefings and participate in a simulation of the United Nations General Assembly.
How is it possible to compare government in different states in international politics and what can such an exercise tell us about global politics?
This module invites students to address this question.
In doing so, the module introduces students to the central themes, theories, concepts, and questions of the study of global comparative politics in the 21st Century.
he module introduces students to the central themes, theories, concepts, and questions of the study of global comparative politics in the 21st Century.
The module begins with a consideration of the development of comparative approaches and the different levels of analysis at which we compare.
It then moves on to discuss the core concepts and elements of comparative politics in the modern world such as, democracy, autocracy, parliaments, electoral systems, political parties, bureaucracies, political culture, and political communication and compare those elements across different political systems from around the globe.
This module gives students the opportunity to explore both domestic and international politics through the lens of power and by examining key issues, concepts, and problems relating to studying international relations.
The module is divided into three sections.
The first section, Politics, provides students with the opportunity to understand the contested nature of politics as a subject, key conceptual problems within the study of politics and the essential dichotomy at the heart of politics between the individual and the state.
The second section, Power, examines the nature and dynamics of different sites of power within politics including democracies, autocracies, revolutionary politics and post-modern politics.
The final section of the module, People, gives students the chance to examine four key issues where politics is a site of on-going struggle, by examining contemporary issues pertaining to globalisation, sexual politics, environmentalism, and populism.
This module introduces students to the key institutions and actors in the British political system.
The module begins by introducing students to key concepts such as politics, government, representation, pluralism and power before moving on to examine these through the key institutions and actors in British political system.
These include the monarchy, the government, the judiciary, political parties, the civil service, and the media.
The module also aims to provide students with an introduction to the literature on British politics through an examination of a range of key texts and scholarly debates
This module is designed to place theory at the centre of the study of world politics.
It aims to provides a critical overview of the disciplinary literature of international relations from both mainstream and critical perspectives.
The module aims to provide students with the opportunity to both understand and critically employ the concepts, approaches and methods of International Relations theory, and to develop an understanding of their contested nature and the problematic character of inquiry in the discipline.
This module aims to enhance students’ professional and vocational engagement in relation to politics and international relations beyond university.
The module focuses on employability and entrepreneurship and aims to provide an awareness of the range of subject-related job roles; developing understanding of, and improving competence in, relevant modes of political and entrepreneurial behaviour; enhancing political- and enterprise-related skills; exploring personal motivations and values; and bringing into class external speakers with relevant degrees now working in a range of related roles.
The module’s role in improving citizenship will also be further enhanced by  a focus on politics as a voluntary activity.
This module aims to introduce students to the area of foreign policy analysis.
It is designed to explore competing explanations for state behaviour and the conduct of inter-state relations in the international domain.
The module encourages students to consider the contested role of human agency in global affairs in contrast to disciplinary international relations’ preoccupation with structural considerations.
A range of historical and contemporary case studies are used to illuminate the issues under discussion.
This module examines the main challenges facing democratic politics in today’s United States and the main features of the US political system.
Why has politics in the United States become so intense and polarised?
How different is the US from other countries in terms of its social controversies (guns, immigration, and abortion) or its economic model?
And, how endangered is democracy in America?
The module aims to provide a detailed historical and theoretical appreciation of the development of US democracy.
It examines the principal institutions and actors in the US political system and traces the impact of key ideas, taking account of the impact of wider societal factors on US political life.
Students will consider the challenges facing US democracy and what impact these may have on US policymaking both at home and abroad.
This module explores the concept and practice of global governance.
International Relations scholars are increasingly concerned with how international organisations work and how they might work better.
Of particular interest is the governance of issues that are inherently global; that is, those that transcend national borders.
Examples include migration, health, conflict, poverty and development, trade, finance, the environment and science and technology.
The module begins with the historical development of international institutions and key theories that seek to explain how global governance operates currently.
It then considers how global governance might be improved, in theory and practice.
These ideas are then applied to a range of case studies.
This international relations module seeks to explore the ways in which the contemporary international order can be explained as deriving from the global experience of European colonialism and imperialism.
It aims to provide students with the opportunity to develop a knowledge of the nature, politics and consequences of the Western imperial penetration.
This module serves as an introduction to the international politics of Central Asia.
The module explores Central Asia’s domestic post-Soviet transition and analyses the tension between tradition and modernity, the legacies of Soviet rule, political and economic transformation, the rise of absurdist dictatorships, nation-building, clan politics and conflict, protest and revolution.
Students will also examine Central Asia in global context by assessing the challenges faced by the region.
This includes addressing the region’s geo-strategic significance to international security.
It will explore issues such as political Islam and the threat of terrorism, energy security, organised crime and migration, the so-called ‘New Great Game’ for power and influence in the region between Russia the US, EU and China, the international security challenges related to the region’s proximity to Afghanistan, Iran and Pakistan and the issue of regional cooperation through Eurasian Economic Union and the Shanghai Organisation Cooperation.
There are few places in the UK where students have the opportunity to study the politics and international relations of Central Asia.
Thus, students will have a unique opportunity to gain knowledge and understanding of this fascinating and vital region for global politics.
The module aims to enhance the knowledge of Modern Middle East and its international relations through the creation of links between different approaches of IR and regional cases.
In this context, it aims to inform the students about the realities of decision making at the foreign policy level but also look at the relations between state and non-state entities on both the regional and international level.
The thematic division of the module helps the students acquire knowledge in a range of topical issues of critical importance for the international relations of the Middle Eastern region.
Students are assessed in the form of essays, reports, presentations and reviews, and examinations.
Assessment varies from module to module depending on the subject of study.
These opportunities can offer valuable experience of a professional policy environment.
Placements are undertaken at the student’s own expense and you'll be responsible for the costs associated with general living, accommodation, and travel.
You can take advantage of our range of modern study areas located across campus, which include learning lounges which give you the opportunity to study alone or with your friends and course mates.
You offer a range of computer suites in buildings across our Brayford Pool Campus.
Graduates have gone on to positions in a diverse range of areas, including roles in intergovernmental organisations, non-government organisations (NGOs) and banking and accounting services.
The cost of optional study trips fluctuates according to demand, currency movements and the cost of travel, accommodation and visa expenses.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/istpolub:
L245
From British politics and global conflicts, to policies tackling challenging and sometimes controversial issues, a degree in International Relations and Politics can provide students with the chance to examine some of the most interesting and important issues of our time.
Lincoln's BA (Hons) International Relations and Politics degree enables students to develop the international knowledge and skill sets central to participation within a global society.
Throughout the degree, students can build their professional skills and enhance their employability, and modules such as the Model United Nations help to develop valuable negotiating, speech-making, and diplomacy skills via a simulation of the UN General Assembly.
The first year of the course introduces central issues and concepts in inernational relations, global, and UK politics.
Core modules focus on British government and on global politics, introducing the key concepts that underpin the disciplines of politics and international relations.
In the second and third years, students can explore theoretical foundations of the subject, offering a range of optional modules in specialist areas spanning global, national, and local levels of analysis for students to choose to suit their own preference.
Students can build on this by undertaking an independent study in a research area of their choice.
The core module, Model United Nations, provides an opportunity for students to learn about the operation of international diplomacy via simulation learning.
The optional module Applied Politics explores the skills and values needed to be successful in a variety of politics-related roles.
They are able to conduct in-depth analysis of the institutions of British government through modules such as Parliamentary Studies, which is co-taught with the Houses of Parliament.
There is a strong emphasis on skills development on this course and students can learn how to collect and analyse data, draft policy proposals, produce oral and written presentations, and work at a high level of individuality, and as part of a team.
The first year of the course introduces central issues and concepts in international relations, global, and UK politics.
Building upon some of the major ideas and concepts introduced in the first year (level four), this module aims to examine in more depth key debates both in the history of political ideas and in contemporary political analysis.
In particular, reference is made to key thinkers from the past who have left their intellectual imprint on political ideas, as well as important contemporary thinkers, in order to assess the contribution that they have made to political theory and the extent to which they have impacted on the practice and analysis of politics.
This module aims to address a variety of issues relating to political parties in the United Kingdom.
The political science literature covers a wide variety of topics around parties.
Amongst those which are examined in this module are the following; the historical development of parties; the role of parties in terms of mobilisation of support, electioneering and campaigning, recruitment of personnel; representation of the electorate and issue-based politics; the partisan divide; and the relationship with the media.
These will be examined primarily within the context of a discussion of the three major parties within the British political system including their development, their ideological tenets and their contemporary positions.
However, these will be set against the position of other parties within the UK including the Scottish National Party, Plaid Cymru and the Northern Irish parties, to which will be added a comparative perspective, drawing upon the roles and experiences of parties in Western Europe.
Since the end of the Cold War, politics has taken on more global dimensions.
Intensified globalisation, lower barriers to international travel and communication, and the growth of international social movements and non-governmental organisations have provided more opportunities than ever before for people to become active in the global public sphere.
How should we go about trying to make global change?
Can we legitimately take action on issues in national or cultural contexts far from our own?
How should we understand the connections between local action and global solutions?
This module will examine the opportunities and obstacles for our meaningful participation in a global public sphere.
The module will help students to gain a more critical and nuanced understanding of the possibilities of (their own) global citizenship.
This module asks students to re-think ‘the political’ and the traditional cannon of Western political thinkers.
The module is driven by a single question.
What are the limitations of enlightenment ideas?
The liberal order has governed our framing and understanding of politics, and earlier modules in the programme (People, Power and Politics, and Thinking Politics) introduced students to key ideas and theorists within the traditional canon of political thought.
This module challenges students to critique and deconstruct core concepts that emerged from the enlightenment such as the state, modernity, freedom and rights, national self-determination, sex and sexuality, culture, media and communication, the environment and the public sphere and the module is structured around these themes.
Studying at the University of Lincoln was an extremely rewarding experience that helped me define my future career path.
The course offers fascinating and thought-provoking subjects during every term of study.
I was guided by kind, passionate, and knowledgeable lecturers who gave me the opportunities to thrive and develop during my time at Lincoln.
Thomas Whitlam
BA (Hons) International Relations and Politics
A range of computer suites is available across our buildings on the Brayford Pool Campus.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/inttouub:
N832
Are you ready to shape the future of one of the world's largest and most rapidly developing industries?
The global tourism sector is a dynamic powerhouse, offering an array of exciting career opportunities across diverse fields - whether as a travel consultant, tour operator, destination manager, event coordinator, hospitality manager, or sustainability officer.
Our BA (Hons) International Tourism Management is designed to give you the expertise and confidence to thrive in this fast-paced, ever-changing industry.
You can explore vital issues and strategies in international tourism planning and management, with the flexibility to tailor your learning to your personal interests and career ambitions.
From managing global travel operations to promoting unique destinations or driving sustainable practices, this degree prepares you to take the lead in a thriving industry with limitless potential.
Tourism, Transport and Travel is ranked in top 10 in the UK for teaching*
Study abroad during the second year
Optional study visits to various locations
Graduates working at Sonesta Resort Hilton and The Bear Grylls Adventure
*National Student Survey 2024 (out of 60 ranking institutions)
In the first year, the  programme provides you with a solid foundation in tourism management, exploring the key principles that shape the tourism experience.
Essential business modules are also included to help develop a strong understanding of business and management concepts.
In the second year, the focus shifts to more advanced topics, including tourism planning, development, and the global impact of tourism.
Students will examine the influence of tourism on society and the environment, as well as strategies for promoting sustainability in the industry.
The programme also covers the importance of accessibility in tourism, ensuring that services are inclusive for all visitors.
In the final year, students apply their skills in real-world tourism contexts, gaining insights into contemporary industry challenges, global tourism trends, and business strategy, while completing a final project that allows them to specialise in an area of their interest.
You are taught through a mix of lectures, seminars, workshops, and field visits.
On average, each module has a one hour lecture and a one hour seminar/workshop per week, for 10 to 12 weeks.
Delivery and all module information are confirmed prior to the start of each module in the module handbook.
Assessment dates are included in the handbooks together with the task and any other key assessment information.
All modules are supported by Blackboard e-learning and all slides are uploaded on the bespoke module Blackboard site.
Amelia's Journey
Hear from Amelia, an International Tourism Management student at Lincoln International Business School, who shares her journey about studying at the University of Lincoln.
This module explores both supply and demand perspectives to explore students to the interrelationships between different sectors in the industry and the complexity of tourist motivations, decision making, and needs.
Students can also use case studies to examine the impacts of tourism, showing both the positives and negatives of the industry.
This module aims to raise students’ awareness on global issues in tourism, enabling them to use responsible and effective practice in their careers.
The tourism industry has seen unprecedented disruption during the recent pandemic.
A high number of disruptive events are reshaping it such as health crisis, war, resource management issues, an energy crisis, climate change, disruption to global distribution chains, disruption in international travel and tourism, and other critical issues are impacting the tourism industry.
Decades of continuous growth were replaced by sharp decline in tourist numbers and sharp profit losses across its various segments.
The domestic and international tourism markets and stakeholders were impacted equally.
This reminded the world that the tourism industry is highly globalised and highly vulnerable to health risks, political and social instability, climate change and resource depletion.
The negative impacts of the industry on the world became the subject of intense critique as well.
A call to action and a need to “Rethink and remake tourism” is now dominating tourism discourses and students are encouraged to take part in the debates.
The module addresses these issues with the help of relevant theories, industry guest speakers and fieldwork.
The module complements the introductory year 1 module and sets the scene for more specialised discussions taking place in later modules in the final year of study around change and innovation management.
With the help of theoretical frameworks and case-studies from across the wider tourism landscape, the module discusses resilience, recovery, rejuvenation, and reinvention within the tourism industry post-pandemic and during challenging periods.
Cultural heritage sites range from theme parks to ancient monuments, and from museums to performances.
They constitute by far the greatest majority of visitor attractions across the world.
This module examines the nature of cultural heritage sites and their role in creating a sense of place, as well as meaningful visitor experiences.
We also examine the many challenges facing managers of cultural heritage sites, from recovering from the Covid pandemic and coping with the climate emergency to enhancing visitor experiences through creating inclusive spaces, employing digital tools and dealing with contested heritage.
With a rich history stretching back millennia, Lincoln is a fantastic laboratory for examining cultural heritage and we use many local examples.
However, we take a dynamic global perspective too, and draw on examples from around the world.
Decolonisation is addressed through the concepts of sense of place, authenticity and contested heritage.
Authors we study are actively engaging with these issues in the Global North and we draw on authors from the Global South too.
Students will be introduced to live examples of decolonisation in Lincoln, such as the Black History Trail of the city.
The idea of inclusivity is addressed through a) attention to the needs of different visitor segments (including the concept of ‘hard to reach’ audiences); b) the concept of universal design; and c) the ways in which interpretation can be employed to engage visitors.
Students will be introduced to the idea of museum activism as a means of promoting a culture of change.
This is especially relevant at a juncture when cultural heritage sites are responding to a growing demand for a more sensitive representation of the past.
The skills that students will be encouraged to develop: critical analysis; developing strategies for dealing with sensitive/difficult cultural heritage; developing solutions for inclusive visitor management.
The assessment will be designed to address the LOs as well as these skills.
The purpose of this module is to critically examine the meaning of visitor experiences within the context of tourism, events, and sports business management to allow graduates of the undergraduate suite of degrees to be able to design and deliver positive and impactful experiences.
The module focuses on how meaning is anticipated, created, and remembered in a variety of contexts and how experiences, and meaning, can be enhanced through the development and delivery of inclusive and immersive practices in a range of contexts.
To that end the module engages students with multi-faceted, interdisciplinary, debates around several key themes:
- The concept of ‘experience’.
- The innate human need to have tangible and intangible experiences and the role of tourism, events, and sports business management in meeting those needs.
- Intersectionality and inclusive experiences.
- Multi-sensory approaches to creating accessible, inclusive, and memorable experiences.
- Emotion in visitor experiences and its impact on the acts of engagement and remembering.
- The role of experiences in the creation and communication of narratives around identity/ies through souvenirs and social media.
- The importance and impact of Decolonisation in creating multivocal and representative cultural experiences.
The themes will be critically examined through three-hour workshops that cover the theoretical concepts underpinning them, case studies of how these themes are represented in practice, and the application of theory and practice to solve a real-life problem relating to the theme.
It is intended that this will not only develop students’ theoretical and practical knowledge, but will build time management, research, communication, critical analysis, team working, and problem-solving skills.
We will embed case studies and application exercises covering each cohort’s subject, and whilst students will focus on their area they will share their findings with the whole group in the sessions and via Black Board to help build their knowledge of the theme in other contexts.
The different assessment methods used are designed to ensure that a student has a variety of opportunities to demonstrate their abilities.
Assignments can enable students to manage their own time, develop their research and analytical skills, and provide an opportunity to explore subjects in greater depth.
Assessment types may include written examinations, oral assessments (presentations by individuals or small groups of students), visual poster presentations, written reports, essays, portfolios or collections of practical work produced by individuals or groups, projects, and demonstrations such as during live events.
Students may have the opportunity to support events which can bring them face-to-face with industry professionals.
Recently, students in the School have assisted at the Tourism Management Conference which was hosted at the University.
Completion leads to a BA (Hons) International Tourism Management (with Professional Practice) ; without the placement, it's a BA (Hons) International Tourism Management .
Successful completion results in a BA (Hons) International Tourism Management (International Study Year).
You have the chance to spend around four months learning at an overseas university as part of our exchange programme during their second year.
Current destinations include Mexico, China, Malaysia, the USA, France, Spain, Germany, Switzerland, Malta, Sweden, and Finland.
Please note that you will have to pay for your own travel, accommodation, and living expenses during the study abroad trips.
Throughout this course, you can take part in optional field trips and study visits.
On field trips, you may visit cultural landmarks, engage with partner universities, and experience events within each country.
You can also take part in optional study visits to events and exhibitions.
Costs vary and you may be asked to contribute to these costs as a percentage or in full.
During my degree, I spent six months in China and participated in field trips to Sri Lanka and India, giving me in-depth knowledge about business practices, disaster management, and cultural differences, which will benefit me in my future career.
Rebecca Cardell
BA (Hons) International Tourism Management
We subscribe to the Good Student Employer Charter.
This initiative is aimed at businesses within leisure, tourism, hospitality, and retail, which are looking to improve their knowledge of how best to support tourism students in the workplace, and was developed in collaboration with Destination Lincolnshire and the Institute of Hospitality.
It is championed by our Associate Professor, Dr.
Agnieszka Rydzik.
Graduates of the BA (Hons) International Tourism Management programme are well-equipped for a wide range of careers, not only within the tourism industry but also in sectors outside of it.
The degree can prepare you for roles in destination management and marketing, hotel management, theme park management, cruise ship operations, travel consultancy, project management, social media and marketing, policy and planning, tourist experience management, and event planning.
With millions of tourists travelling every year, the global tourism industry offers abundant opportunities for those skilled in creating exceptional experiences.
Our graduates have secured positions in various sectors, including culture and heritage management, local tourism development, and roles with airlines and independent tour operators.
Notable employers include Sonesta Resort Hilton, Xerox, The Bear Grylls Adventure, BCD Meetings & Events, Warwick Castle, Ocado, AELP, RNN Group, Samsung, Worcester Bosch, Liz Hobbs Groups, Hilton, The White Hart Hotel Lincoln, and Printworks London.
We work with a number of organisations as either a member or partner to create opportunities for our students and help us deliver the best course we can.
ABTA is a trade association for UK travel agents, tour operators and the wider travel industry.
Two students are ABTA student ambassadors and enjoy industry mentoring each year.
We are a proud full member of ATHE, the UK higher education institution that is involved in the teaching of and/or research into Tourism.”
We are a proud Institute of Hospitality member.
As a professional body for those working in, and studying in, hospitality, leisure, and tourism, students can attend networking events and mentoring.
Students have the chance to spend around four months learning at an overseas university as part of our exchange programme during their second year.
The study abroad scheme requires students to pay for their own travel, accommodation, and living expenses.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/joujouub:
P500
This industry-accredited course is designed to prepare aspiring journalists to produce news content to a print or broadcast standard, putting journalistic theory into practice in the researching and crafting of stories.
At Lincoln, a digital newsroom culture offers students the opportunity to develop the skills and instincts of a journalist, from spotting a scoop to developing in-depth feature ideas.
Students are able to study in newsrooms using the latest mobile technology, print production, and design software, and produce broadcast content in digital radio and television studios.
To help ensure that students are at the forefront of the field, the programme is continually revised to reflect advances in digital news and features production.
Additionally, content is delivered by media professionals who bring a diverse range of industry experience and expertise.
Course content is also informed by the School's programme of research.
This examines issues such as human rights reporting, local radio broadcasting, literary journalism, World War I comics, journalistic diaspora, and sport.
There are also opportunities to study journalistic theory modules.
NCTJ accredited course
Work placement opportunities throughout
Complete the NCTJ Diploma alongside your course
Join student-run media platforms
Graduates working at the BBC, ITV News, Sky Sports, The Times, and Channel 4
A range of final year optional modules
Teaching on the course is delivered by tutors whose cumulative expertise embraces professional practice and academic study.
Students are taught through a blend of practical workshops, lectures, seminars, and tutorials.
Students on this course can examine journalism in its historical and theoretical contexts, exploring essential ethical and legal considerations.
Students can also put theory into practice by producing news content across print, online, radio, and television platforms.
By taking a multiplatform approach from the outset, students can explore the fundamental principles of journalistic practice and produce news and feature items on a regular basis.
When they have progressed to their second year, students can take part in newsdays, replicating industry practice in a range of media.
There is also the choice to begin to follow a specialist broadcast, digital, or magazine route.
There is a choice of theoretical modules including Journalism and Society, Journalism Histories, and International Human Rights.
These are designed to help students explore interests and develop areas of specialism.
In the final year of the degree there is a compulsory module where students can reflect on work placement experience.
The School's industry links can help students secure work placements with media organisations.
Please note students are expected to cover their own transport, accommodation, and general living expenses while on  placements.
Journalism students have various options in theory and production in their final year.
This module will be a blend of practice and theory and aims to create a progression through the key journalistic skills needed to tell stories on the most appropriate platform using traditional, digital and mobile media.
This module aims to develop a rounded awareness of the media and to give students the skills and insight that equip them to develop further in levels two and three.
The focus is on newsgathering and storytelling skills.
Journalism students are required to abide by the law, in terms of newsgathering and research methods, data collection and retention, use of communication networks, publishing and broadcasting material to audiences.
This module aims to introduce students to the legal system, to the operation of the courts, and examines the impact of legislation and codes of practice on the work of journalists.
Journalism is a key activity not simply in the communication of news and current affairs, but as a primary definer of social, political and psychological contexts in which we live and work as citizens in the twenty-first century.
This module introduces students to key cultural, commercial and technological developments that have shaped the modern media, exploring those developments in terms of their history as well as the social impacts of modern mass communications.
This module aims to introduce students to the editorial and production skills required for web-based multiplatform news production with a focus on digital convergence and effective use of social media.
From the basis of a digital core of content production, the focus is on newsgathering and output for broadcast and online.
Students will have the opportunity to work in a newsroom environment under strict but appropriate time constraints.
Journalists need to understand how legislation is drafted and enacted in the UK and how journalism – the Fourth Estate – effects a check on Government and Parliament(s).
This involves a study of the political, democratic and administrative structure of the Monarch as head of state, Parliament, the Prime Minister, Central Government, local government, the judiciary and EU institutions.
Topics explored include constitutional government (the unwritten constitution), ministerial roles and cabinet government, political parties and MPs, the civil service, local government structures, councillors, best value and ethics in local government, and the government information service.
Shorthand is a key skill for journalists and enables fast, accurate note taking in any situation.
Students have the opportunity to be taught the theory of the Teeline system and then work on building their speed with the aim of achieving the NCTJ 'gold standard' 100 words per minute qualification.
This module aims to develop the basic skills studied in Journalism Skills at Level One.
Students are expected to proactively gather news and feature stories employing the full range of research and interview techniques.
Students will be encouraged to produce imaginative and original copy conforming to professional standards, with careful consideration of topic, angle, choice of interviewees, necessary attribution and corroboration of facts in a variety of writing styles suitable for a range of traditional, digital and mobile platforms.
From a digital first perspective, this module aims to develop the key skills of journalism through regular practice, including newsgathering, writing and interviewing, and live output production with text and audio and video output as required.
Online skills will be used throughout, including social media use to drive consumers to the content.
The journalism and features produced will be outward facing, using techniques of electronic newsgathering, digital and non-linear editing, production/journalism for online and print, and an appropriate range of live news broadcasting techniques.
This module gives the students the opportunity to specialise in a medium of their choice.
In consultation with tutors, students will be able to produce radio or television bulletins, features and magazine programmes, a web site with multimedia content or print magazines and newspapers.
More advanced skills appropriate to each medium will be taught and workshops will be tutor led and supervised as required.
Materials produced will be outward facing where appropriate.
This module aims to build on legal and administrative knowledge gleaned in Essential Law at Level One.
It examines how criminal and civil legislation affecting print, online and broadcast journalists has developed; identifies areas of conflict and uncertainty; and requires students to apply knowledge of legislation and case law to given scenarios, including responses to actions in the civil courts.
This module is designed to equip students with the understanding of research design and methods for undertaking research.
The module gives students the opportunity to develop their observational, analytical and writing skills.
It has vocational relevance in enabling students to select a relevant research topic for in-depth analysis and evaluation in their final year.
This module aims to highlight the importance of human rights issues to the practice of journalism and aims to develop students’ awareness of the range of ethical issues facing journalists.
This module extends the study of the history of journalism into the twentieth century.
It provides students with the opportunity to critically consider the historical background to some of the issues which feature in contemporary news agendas – for example students may have the opportunity to discuss the reporting of war; changes in the National Health Service; critique of ‘care in the community’ relating to mental health, the export of American culture and ‘Globalisation’; the impact of ethnicity on politics and culture particularly in terms of EU debates; etc.
Appropriate emphasis will be placed upon the role of the press in recording these social and political developments.
The role of the media as a 'mirror' of society means that journalists encounter cross-cultural issues in their newsgathering and news processing functions.
This module aims to prepare students to write stories with cultural sensitivity, care and compassion.
Students who opt to take this module will have the opportunity to study for a term at one of the international institutions with which the School has a partnership arrangement.
During the term abroad, students can share classes with local students.
Not only will students have the chance to live and socialise in another culture, providing opportunities to study their respective countries, they will also have an opportunity to examine the international journalism industry practice.
Please see the fees tab for further information relating to the costs incurred when studying abroad.
Students undertake a dissertation topic of their choice within their chosen field of study and are expected to apply theoretical concepts to their research.
They will be allocated an individual tutor to support their work but students are expected to demonstrate a high degree of personal commitment and to work on their own initiative.
Working in small production groups and independently, students will have the chance to build on the experience they have gained at Levels 1 and 2 and produce weekly and termly news and features outputs, in their choice of media, some of which will be for public consumption.
Using the School's web-based multimedia news site, LSJ News, students will work in a professional environment for the full year.
An advanced level of editorial and production skills will be expected, including story and idea origination, news and feature management and agenda setting, along with an awareness of the differing journalistic treatment demanded by each medium.
Working on an individual basis, students will have the opportunity to produce project work in either broadcast, news and magazine brands, online and sport.
It is expected that the resulting work will be at industry-standard and suitable for public consumption.
Students will be expected to be work on their own initiative, making their own editorial decisions, with tutor supervision.
This is offered to students who wish to take the Court Reporting option for their NCTJ diploma and further develop their court reporting skills.
Following on from law modules in the previous two years of study, this module aims to develop the skills required for a news reporter covering litigation in the courts and the process of writing news stories about the workings of the civil and criminal courts.
This module aims to enable students to appreciate trends and changes within the main media industries (press, radio, TV, cinema, music and the internet) on a comparative basis between countries and between platforms.
The module offers an opportunity to understand how the media has reached the state it is now in, and what trends are likely to continue in the future.
This module examines broadcasting structures in the UK and in other countries.
It aims to develop students’ critical understanding of models of national broadcasting and the implications for media policy and mass media's role in society.
The module aims to introduce students to the fundamental contexts of national, cultural and economic systems which inform the development of media policy debates.
This module offers students an introduction to key PR principles.
By the end of this module, students should be able to write a basic PR campaign strategy and produce a news release suitable for distribution to a range of media platforms.
This module explores the history of war reporting and the ways in which journalists have represented conflicts.
It also considers the reasons why some conflicts are marginalised, ignored altogether or given extensive coverage by the mainstream media.
It studies theoretical aspects and practical implications of conflict-sensitive reporting.
This module is designed for students who have an interest in the theory and practice of political reporting, building on teaching at earlier levels of the programme relating to British and European political institutions.
It focuses on two areas: political theory and the practice of political reporting.
Increasingly, journalists need a critical understanding of the underlying concepts for political acting such as liberty, justice, rights, law, and how they are realised in our contemporary democracies.
The module will discuss the crisis of our modern democracy and the concept of post-democracy.
It will also reflect on the essential role the media hold within our democracies.
The practical element will focus on the sourcing of political stories and on various models of political storytelling.
It will further look at how digital journalism and the social media have changed political journalism.
Students have the opportunity to examine and analyse their chosen specialism across a wide range of publications, from general readership websites, magazines, and newspapers to specialist and niche publications aimed at the 'expert'.
Students can study the particular attributes needed for specialist journalism including: authority, expertise, ability to access specialist information and format requirements.
Throughout this module, students will select one particular strand to focus on in order to develop their specialism in the following indicative areas: sport, music, fashion, science, arts or business.
In this module, students wishing to specialise in an increasingly popular field of journalism have the opportunity to gain experience of sports reporting and are able to work in one or more media of their choice.
Students taking this module will follow the NCTJ curriculum and will be able to take the NCTJ assessments at the end of term.
Students are also encouraged to develop a better understanding of the structure of sport and will explore issues surrounding sport, including its impact on society.
As the course involves developing a wide range of communication skills, assessment is varied and includes practical work, often in the form of timed exercises or news days simulating industry practice; projects; the collation of a portfolio of work; and presentations.
The main part of assessment of theory-based modules is in the form of coursework, with some examinations.
Journalism students benefit from a suite of newsrooms, with associated workstations and specialist print production software.
Broadcast students have exclusive access to radio and television presentation studios and opportunities for output on the University’s digital audio platform.
Students also have access to a TV studio where they can use the latest virtual studio technology to produce television news programmes.
This course is accredited by the NCTJ (National Council for the Training of Journalists).
The School is a member of the European Public Relations Education and Research Association.
The University of Lincoln pays for students to take the NCTJ Diploma in addition to their course, however, should you need to retake exams, you will be responsible for the resit fees.
If you choose not to pay to retake and therefore do not pass the NCTJ Diploma, you will not receive it.
This will have no bearing on the outcome of your BA (Hons) Journalism degree.
The NCTJ Diploma is made up of a number of mandatory subjects and optional choices.
Currently students on the course can choose from the following NCTJ Options to complete their Diploma: Advanced Court Reporting; Photography for Journalists; Video Journalism for Online; Production; Business of Magazines; Broadcast (either joint disciplines or separate radio or television exams); and Sport.
You can get involved with a range of media outlets at Lincoln, including our print and online school magazine, student-run Linc news site, and Cygnet PR.
These are excellent opportunities to collaborate with other students, showcase your work, and apply your skills in a variety of contexts.
Work experience forms an integral part of the course and you are encouraged to seek placements as soon as possible.
In the final year there is a compulsory module in which you are expected to reflect upon 10 days of work placement experience.
A personal tutor is available to guide you on where to apply and to help with putting together a relevant CV.
Please note that you are expected to cover your own transport, accommodation, and general living expenses while undertaking placements.
The School has established industry links which can help you to secure placements with media organisations, and there are opportunities with the University's digital audio platform.
There is a range of student media to get involved in, including Cygnet PR (a student-run PR agency), LSJ News, magazines, websites, social media, and TV webcasting.
Lincoln graduates have gone on to work at regional and national journalism and PR outlets, including the BBC, ITV News, ITV Sport, the Daily Mail, Sky Sports News, The Times, Lincolnshire Live, Leicestershire Live, Essex Live, Proactive PR, Lincoln City FC, Manchester City FC, Arsenal FC, Radio Times and The Sun.
Danyal Khan, BA (Hons) Journalism
Danyal’s role at Sky Sports News sees him reporting on Premier League football, conducting interviews with players, managers, coaches, and people out in the community.
Danyal looks back fondly at his time at Lincoln, where alongside his undergraduate degree, he undertook work placements, got involved in the student newspaper, and joined a sports team.
The University of Lincoln pays for students to take the NCTJ Diploma in addition to their course, however, should students need to retake exams, those resit fees will be payable by the student.
If a student chooses not to pay to retake and therefore does not pass the NCTJ Diploma, they will not receive it.
This will have no bearing on the outcome of their BA (Hons) Journalism degree.
Please note that students are expected to cover their own transport, accommodation, and general living expenses while undertaking placements.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/jouinvub:
P590
Journalism Studies goes beyond uncovering and crafting a good story; it explores the rich history of the profession and the important role it plays in our society.
Lincoln's BA (Hons) Journalism Studies aims to provide students with an informed understanding of the role of journalism in society, and the intellectual and practical skills required to succeed professionally as a journalist.
The programme examines the history, theories, and research techniques that underpin the practice of journalism.
Understanding the social role of the journalist involves an exploration of the environment of journalism and its historical, social, political, economic, and legal settings, both in the UK and internationally.
The University of Lincoln's journalism programmes are continually revised to reflect the advancements in digital news production and convergence.
Course content is informed by the School's programme of research.
Course recognised for excellence by the EJTA
A focus on the history, theories, and research techniques that underpin journ
Work with student-run media platforms
Course content informed by research
Teaching on the course is delivered by tutors whose cumulative expertise embraces professional practice and academic study, such as John Cafferkey and Tim Greenfield.
They put theory into practice by producing news content across print, online, radio, and television platforms.
Taking a multiplatform approach from the outset, students can explore the fundamental principles of journalistic practice, and produce news items on a regular basis.
In the second year, students can take part in newsdays, replicating industry practice in a range of media.
There is a choice of theoretical modules including Journalism and Society, Journalism Histories and Ethics and International Human Rights.
In the final year of the degree there is also a compulsory module in which students reflect upon ten days of work placement experience.
The School's industry links can help students to secure work placements with media organisations.
Please note that students are expected to cover their own transport, accommodation, and general living expenses while undertaking this placement.
As the course involves the acquisition of a wide range of communication skills, assessment is varied and includes practical work; often in the form of timed exercises or news days simulating industry practice, projects, the collation of a portfolio of work, and presentations.
The University of Lincoln has links to the European Public Relations Education and Research Association.
This course places an emphasis on gaining hands-on experience.
Our industry links can help students to secure work placements with media organisations.
In the third year there is an optional Professional Placement module which aims to give students the opportunity to experience the industries that can be linked to their studies, gain vital skills which may prepare them for the job market and also establish and maintain links with industry professionals who may help them in their chosen career.
Please note that students are responsible for covering their travel, accommodation, and general living costs while undertaking placements.
There are also opportunities to gain experience with the University’s digital audio platform and a range of student media, including Cygnet PR (a student-run PR agency), LSJ News, magazines, websites, social media, and TV webcasting.
Graduates have gone on to secure positions at regional, national, and international media organisations and press agencies, or to work in a freelance capacity.
Some may use their degree as the basis for a career in PR, business, marketing, or education.
Others go on to study further at postgraduate level.
Applicants who receive an offer will be invite to an Offer Holder Day to lean more about the course.
This will include practical workshops and a short interview.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/lawlawub:
6 Years
M100
LLB (Hons) Law at Lincoln has been developed to advance students' understanding of the changing and dynamic nature of law and how it operates in practice.
There is the chance to gain important practical legal skills, such as mooting, and negotiation, as well as taking part in the Lincoln Law Clinic - a pro bono law clinic which handles real cases.
The course can act as the first step towards a career in the legal profession.
It provides the key skills and knowledge needed to go on to qualify as a solicitor or barrister.
The course also enables you to pursue a non-legal career in a wide range of fields, including government service, business and management, and law enforcement.
Professional practice through the Lincoln Law Centre
Extensive links with the local legal profession
Gain hands-on experience on industry placements
Develop a wide range of skills for graduate employment
This degree enables students to progress their theoretical knowledge of substantive law and to think about law practically.
Students are encouraged to build an understanding of the context of the English legal system - its origins, history, and practices - and reflect upon policy and the social, political, ethical, philosophical, and cultural contexts in which the law operates.
A range of delivering methods are used on this course, including seminars.
The seminars are a safe and constructive space for students to develop their key skills that they will need in the modern job market, including communication and team-working skills, presenting arguments, and conducting research
The course gives students the chance to choose areas of law in which they have a particular interest.
In addition to our core modules, students can select from a diverse array of optional modules, ranging from Police Powers, and International Law, to Consumer and Corporate modules.
In the final year, students have the option of writing a dissertation or having their voluntary work in the student-led law clinic officially recognised by undertaking an assessed module.
Learning by doing is a key feature of the law programme, and is intended to develop students skills in preparation for a graduate career.
Students will have opportunities to develop their communication, team-working, analytical, and problem-solving abilities, as well as developing skills in drafting legal documents, conducting negotiations, and presenting legal arguments in our mock courtroom.
Throughout their studies, students may have the chance to compare English law with the laws of many other countries from around the world, enhancing their understanding of global issues and their intercultural awareness.
A range of delivery methods are used on this course, including lectures and seminars.
In addition to our core modules, students can select from a diverse array of optional modules, including modules on policing, business law, family law, and practical modules such as Alternative Dispute Resolution and Civil Litigation.
Final-year students can also volunteer in our student-led law clinic as well as undertake a placement in a local law firm as one of their elective modules.
Join Philippa, a paralegal at Pepperells Solicitors, as she shares her inspiring journey from studying law at the University of Lincoln to making a real difference in people’s lives.
Discover how our LLB (Hons) Law degree equipped her with essential skills, the vibrant social life she enjoyed, and why she recommends it to anyone considering a career in law.
D
This module aims to examine the principles and operation of the British Constitution and system of government.
In particular, it is concerned with “the law about government', and the relationship between the institutions of government and between government and the citizen.
The module is designed to introduce key legal and political concepts and to foster critical appraisal of legal rules and of the institutions and processes of government, and the legal and political constraints placed upon the exercise of governmental power.
The study of Administrative Law is designed to provide a critical understanding of the extent of judicial control on governmental bodies through an examination of the law of judicial review.
The aim of this module is to introduce students to general principles of contract law.
The module aims to develop an understanding of enforceable civil law obligations based on agreements and, in doing so, is designed to complement civil law obligations in respect of tortious wrongs covered by the Tort Law module.
The modules aims to provide a sound grounding in the general principles of contract law which may equip students to deal with those legal subjects which are based on contract and which are subsequently encountered in their legal studies.
Although there is general academic agreement on what constitutes the substantive content of the law of contract, in any year of operation due emphasis will be given to issues of current concern.
Students will also have the opportunity to be introduced in this module to the civil process and they can be given an overview of the various stages in bringing an action for breach of contract up to and including the courts and the benefits of settling a contractual dispute through some form of alternative dispute resolution such as arbitration.
As with the study of any legal subject, students will be encouraged to engage in intellectual development and to develop transferable skills.
This module introduces students to the English Legal System and helps students to develop fundamental skills relevant to legal studies.
The core topics covered are expanded on, with deeper and more critical analysis, in the Term B module “Law, Society, and Professional Ethics”.
This module is designed to help students to develop their analytical and critical thinking skills.
It provides a good grounding for future studies in Year 2 and Year 3.
Legal Skills A introduces students to personal skills, such as research, communication, teamwork, reading legal sources, and constructing arguments using secondary sources and legal theory.
This module follows on from Legal Skills A.
In this module, students can consider core transferrable employability skills, although taught in the legal context, including interviewing a client, drafting a basic legal document, conducting a negotiation, and advocacy/mooting.
They will build on these skills in level 2 and 3,  through activities such as the criminal law moot, the tort presentation, and work on legal documentation in land law and equity & trusts (as well as in many of the available elective modules).
This module aims to introduce students to the general principles of English criminal law, with particular emphasis on the essential elements of a crime, namely 'actus reus' and 'mens rea', strict, vicarious, and corporate liability and the defences.
The module also explores the nature of liability in relation to offences against the person, for example, murder, manslaughter, assault and battery, sexual offences, and offences in relation to property, for example, theft, fraud, and criminal damage.
This module is designed to provide students with the opportunity to develop an understanding of the relationship between criminal and civil law and introduce them to the criminal justice system.
The aim of this module is to develop an in-depth knowledge of the complex subject of land law.
Students will have the opportunity to explore the property rights which can exist with respect to land law and the relationships that individuals and organisations have with each other and with the state.
Students can consider freehold and leasehold estates, and registration of land.
The nature of legal and equitable rights can be identified with the concept of a trust.
Students will have the opportunity to study how property rights can be acquired, how they may need protection, and how they may be alienated.
Third party interests in land, such as easements, covenants and mortgages, can also be examined.
There will also be an opportunity to consider the obligations existing as between landlord and tenant in leases.
This module aims to introduce students to the general principles of civil liability for tortious wrongs and complements the Contract Law module.
The module aims to examine the different forms of liability attaching to the main torts and the principles upon which liability is based in such areas as negligence, nuisance, liability for escapes, trespass and defamation by adopting a contemporary approach to the study of this subject.
The relationship between common law, legislation and judicial policy will be highlighted during examination of this subject.
This module aims to contribute to the development of the student’s skills in legal analysis and problem solving as well as their research and reasoning skills.
Students will have the opportunity to be introduced to the ‘compensation culture’ and how compensation claims are dealt with; CFAs and problems associated with bringing personal injury claims.
This module is designed to introduce students to the core principles of commercial law and commercial sales, offering consideration of the practical application of the law and also considering potential areas of uncertainty, or where the law might benefit from reform.
The module allows students to explore the basic principles of private property law, the obligations on those who take possession of property on behalf of others, the manner in which borrowers can offer security to lenders, either by possessory or non-possessory means, and the key principles in relation to the sale of goods.
Throughout the module, there will be consideration of the nature of the obligations that the parties to commercial relationships may owe to one another and the potential remedies for breach of those obligations.
This module is designed to give students an introductory insight into the structure and management of companies and the financial aspects of company management.
An aim of the module is to examine the theoretical and practical basis of company regulation within the perspective of ownership and control of companies and students have the opportunity to be introduced to the legal relationship between directors, shareholders, creditors and employees.
Some financial aspects of company law.
The Environmental Law module aims to introduce students to the concepts, principles and sources of environmental law.
It aims to address the questions of what constitutes the environment, what are environmental problems and what is environmental law.
Students have the opportunity to develop an understanding of substantive environmental law, through the study of the law regulating: the protection of air against pollution and climate change; water pollution and quality; waste management; environmental permitting; contaminated land; and nature conservation.
The Equality Law module is structured around the Equality Act 2010 and covers the law and academic literature on the nine protected characteristics.
The module will cover each protected characteristic in turn, together with a consideration of various arguments for reform.
Despite the adherence to the statute, this is a socio-legal module that will suit students who have an interest in social justice and are comfortable engaging with feminist, queer, and critical race theory.
This module enables students to explore contemporary global issues in a creative way within the context of international law principles and, where relevant, of domestic law.
The module aims to foster a sense of inquiry and curiosity, greater global awareness, and the ability to apply the law in a practical way.
It provides a grounding in key international law rules and an introduction to international organisations, and showcases a range of current issues.
Delivery focuses on pre-selected topics from which students will choose a specific legal issue to research.
Through guided research, independent study and tutor supervision during the course of the module, students create and present a theoretical campaigning argument on their chosen issue.
This module is designed to introduce students to a fast-growing and controversial subject through a detailed and comparative account of the nature and development of the protection of human rights at an international and national level.
An overarching theme is to place the emergence, location and meaning of human rights in its global context.
It aims to engage in a critical analysis of human rights philosophical and historical foundations, seeks to look at the post-1945 development of international and regional systems for protection of human rights and aims to examine how the European Convention on Human Rights has been incorporated into English law.
This module aims to explore a fast-growing and controversial subject through a detailed examination of the nature and development of human rights as a concept, and their protection at the national level.
It starts by providing students with the opportunity to consider the concept of “rights”, and human rights in particular, drawing on political and philosophical analyses.
The module aims to look at the protection of human rights in the UK via the Human Rights Act 1998.
The module is devoted to a critical analysis of a range of rights and the extent to which they are recognised and protected within the United Kingdom.
Intellectual Property law protects various forms of human creation or inventions of the mind.
This  module will look at the principal areas of intellectual property law, namely patents, designs, trademarks and copyright law.
Each area has its own discrete set of legal rules for the creation, ownership and infringement of the rights in question.
The module will look at the requirements for obtaining protection, the scope of that protection and the limits to that protection.
Intellectual Property rights are often the most valuable assets owned by a business.
Businesses are extremely concerned about protecting these assets both nationally and internationally.
Students are expected to develop an understanding of the relevant statutes and case law surrounding the protection of these inventive and original works.
Society is increasingly digital and reliant upon technology.
We all use the internet and technology for a variety of functions including watching videos, catching up with friends and family, gaming, planning trips, shopping, and much more.
Increasing uses and abuses of technology have raised important questions about its role, its regulation, and how law can (or should) seek to impose itself.
This module explores the legal and societal challenges that the internet and other technologies pose in the UK, the EU, and the Americas.
You will explore how these innovations interact with law and policy concerning our online and digitally connected world.
This module is designed to firstly develop and expand on issues of negligence and personal autonomy (assault and consent) first encountered by students in tort law at level 1 and dealt with in this module in the clinical context.
Building on this the module will consider the regulation of clinical practice; and the interface between the law, ethics and regulation focusing on emerging areas of difficulty.
Both caselaw, statute law, regulations and current matters of media and policy controversy will be considered.
This module aims to explore the powers of the police in England and Wales.
It seeks to look at the ways in which the police forces are organised and the different national agencies that operate in the area (such as the Serious Fraud Office, and the Serious Organised Crime Agency).
The human rights context can also be examined.
Students have the opportunity to be taken through the various stages of policing from stop and search to charge.
The module concludes by providing students with the opportunity to consider the ways in which police powers can be challenged.
The aim of this module is to provide students with an opportunity to build on skills they are expected to have developed in the previous two years through other subjects such as legal reasoning and problem solving.
Initially, students can be introduced to the doctrine, maxims and remedies of Equity but the main emphasis will be upon the nature of a trust which has always been the principal concern of Equity.
The classification, nature and creation of various types of express and implied trusts can be considered together with the appointment, powers and duties of trustees.
The law relating to charitable trusts may also be examined and the module aims to conclude with an investigation of the implications of a breach of trust.
This module aims to introduce students to alternative dispute resolution and mediation specifically.
Students can learn the advantages of alternative dispute resolution over litigation and the principles of mediation.
Students are able to explore theories of conflict and conflict resolution as well as use practical role plays to demonstrate the effectiveness of mediation.
Students can gain not only theoretical knowledge, but practical application of mediation techniques to resolve disputes.
The module will examine the legal framework for alternative dispute resolution as well as recent developments such as government proposals to make alternative dispute resolution compulsory for claims up to &pound;10,000 by the end of 2024.
This module will look at the practical application of company law principles.
The module will be taught by means of a practical guided simulation, spanning the lifetime of a business.
It will address different business structures and enable students to both identify differences and choose the media most applicable to their client’s requirements.
The module will also encompass key business transactions and the reporting and filing requirements.
Taxation and accounts relevant to the different business media will also be covered.
The importance of business planning and marketing strategies will be addressed, with a view to enabling students to appreciate the issues faced by businesses in the ‘real world’.
Finally, students will be presented with problem-based scenarios in relation to an insolvent business and will be required to consider the various options and liabilities.
This module gives students an opportunity to explore the  law in England relating to the care and welfare of children by exploring topics such as the state in family life, care proceedings, special guardianship and adoption, and  medical decisions for children.
This module is designed to look at the practical application of the law in respect of civil litigation.
Building on their knowledge of contract and torts, students will look at the professional responsibilities of solicitors to their clients and to their regulator.
Students have the opportunity to consider what information is needed to progress a case through the Court, considering witness evidence, formal drafting requirements and key elements of Courtroom etiquette.
The aim of this module is to give students the opportunity to explore what has been described as a dynamic area of law.
The module seeks to examine specific areas of consumer law, much of which has been influenced by the rapid expansion of consumer law legislation emanating from the European Union.
The module gives students the opportunity to explore the intricacies, any inconsistencies, and issues of policy involved in particular areas of consumer protection law.
Contemporary Media Law focuses on the intersectionality of law within a particular sector of modern society.
The module aims to  introduce students to a range of specific areas of substantive law applying to media businesses across different mediums.
Students can examine areas including, freedom of expression, duties of care, privacy law, intellectual property, consumer law, and competition law, together with an overriding theme of regulation and regulatory enforcement, with these areas of law being discussed in the context of topical, controversial, or developing areas of modern media practice.
Employment law is a complicated yet dynamic area of study subject to rapid and constant change.
The aim of this module is to examine critically the sources and institutions of employment law which attempt to regulate and support relations between employers and employees.
The study of this module will also give the students an opportunity to appreciate the impact of European Law and Human Rights Law on UK national law in this area.
The module seeks to concentrate on the employment relationship, issues of discrimination in the workplace, equal pay, equality in the workplace and termination of employment.
Further, this module provides students with an opportunity to develop not only knowledge and understanding of the technical law relating to aspects of employment but also the opportunity to examine ethical, contemporary and perhaps controversial issues in this field.
The aim of the European Union Law module is to develop students' understanding of the Constitution and Institutions of the European Union and, in particular, the constitutional principles, the administrative and procedural law, and substantive policies of the European Union.
Students will be given the opportunity to develop an understanding of the relationship between European Union law and national law; and to appraise the principles of supremacy and direct effect, and the principles of interpretation and Member State liability.
The role and jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of the European Union can be examined concerning enforcement, preliminary rulings and judicial review.
Students will have the opportunity to develop an understanding of substantive European Union law through the study of the free movement of goods and workers; the freedom to move and reside of citizens of the Union; social policy and equality of treatment and pay in employment; and, in an area of freedom, justice and security, the European arrest warrant and migration and asylum issues.
This module gives students the opportunity to explore family law as it applies in England and Wales.
The aim of this module is to introduce students to the dynamic, constantly evolving area of international law.
Students will have the opportunity to study legal rules which operate in a much broader theatre than national law, with the aim of helping them develop a greater understanding of a changing world order.
The module seeks to examine both theoretical and practical applications of International Law and aims to provide students with ample scope for research and independent study.
This module is designed to introduce students to the historical origins of English law.
Students will have the opportunity to critically analyse the historical development of key legal institutions and principles, critiquing the rationale for why the law developed as it did, and reassessing the impact of the law on those who did not write it, including women, minority groups, and religious communities.
The module will be taught through a series of case studies, allowing students to explore the key event, the legal principles that are relevant to the event, and how the law developed as a result.
Wherever possible, the students will be introduced to primary historical sources, allowing them to engage in source criticism and understanding biases both in contemporary sources and in later evaluations of those sources.
The module enables students to experience law in practice, applying their legal knowledge and research skills to factual legal problems in a clinical setting.
Students will interview real clients, research both legal and practical solutions to the issues identified in order to achieve the clients’ goals and will advise accordingly, in writing, on the options available.
The module is designed to provide students with an opportunity to take their legal knowledge out of the classroom and to give them an insight into how their theoretical studies relate to the practical application of law.
The module aims to develop practical lawyerly skills (interviewing, writing and presentation skills).
Selection for the module will be based predominately on level 2 grades and attendance.
Depending upon demand, written submissions and/or interviews may be considered.
The Law Dissertation module aims to provide the student with an opportunity to undertake a substantial piece of investigative academic work on a chosen area of law or a law-related topic.
The dissertation may develop ideas encountered in other modules or it may be concerned with matters outside such modules.
The end product, a piece of written work approximately 12,500 words in length, should demonstrate, in the context of existing knowledge, understanding, critical analysis and original thinking as well as general academic and communication skills.
In addition to providing academic opportunities, the dissertation is also designed to provide the student with the opportunity to develop practical skills such as (depending on the topic and methodology adopted) interviewing technique, questionnaire design and information retrieval.
The language of submission of the dissertation will be English language for all students.
This module is designed to provide students with an opportunity to evaluate the political and sociological issues affecting the practice of law and how law can operate as a business.
In recent years, law firms have faced many challenges, for instance:
- Firms have been subjected to increasing regulation in the form of money laundering requirements, and outcome based regulation, whilst others have seen the latter as a relaxation of standards.
- Newcomers to the legal marketplace, with the advent of ‘Alternative Business Structures’ have challenged the traditional delivery of legal services.
- The drastic reduction of public funding for cases (legal aid) has stifled the cash flow of many high street practices and medium size practices which had based its business model on that particular income stream.
- Leading firms have faced insolvency, a situation almost unheard of before the current decade.
- Increasing fees in Courts and Employment Tribunals have reduced the availability of claimant work.
- Direct public access to Counsel challenges the traditional solicitor/barrister partnership model.
Students will be encouraged to view legal practice in a business and regulatory context and develop commercial awareness around the practical pressures and difficulties faced by firms operating in the current legal market place.
This module aims to complement the substantive modules of the law degree course, and the litigation processes covered in the common law subjects.
Although in the main it aims to concentrate on criminal evidence, the rules relating to civil evidence may be examined where appropriate.
The rules on admissibility of evidence and judicial discretion aim to supplement the Criminal Law module students will have the opportunity to make a contrast between exclusionary rules in criminal and civil law.
This module is designed to introduce students to the law in England and Wales relating to wills, intestacies, the administration of estates and tax planning.
The module aims to place a strong emphasis on the practical application of relevant law to factual situations and on the effect of such application upon the interests of the parties involved.
This module enables students to experience law in a workplace setting.
Students can either arrange their own suitable work experience (one half day per week or equivalent, as agreed in advance with module co-ordinators) or will be allocated a placement by the module coordinator.
Students will be expected to evaluate the workplace structure and the key roles within it.
Students will have the opportunity to consider any regulatory impacts on the organisation (including the roles of the Compliance Officers for Legal Practice (COLPs) and for Finance and Administration (COFAs), where relevant), the recruitment and marketing policies, as well as exploring the application of theoretical legal knowledge to on-going legal problems.
Penology is the study of the penal system.
While some diversionary sentences can be given at the police station, the majority of this module will consider sentencing in the context of the Magistrates’ and Crown Court in England and Wales.
The lectures will start by looking at penal theory, discussing why we sentence people who commit crime and considering what we are trying to achieve before looking at the sentencing rules and practices in the criminal courts.
The module will then go on to consider the sentences delivered by the court, including nominal and financial penalties, the community order, and a custodial sentence.
How a person experiences prison will be considered in addition to how this impacts on children and families.
Finally, students can consider a range of offender groups including children, women, and dangerous offenders.
This module is designed to focus upon the processes of policy making and implementation at both practical and theoretical levels.
It aims to provide students with an introduction to a variety of models of policy making and seeks to discuss the complexities of the distribution of power and decision making, primarily, but not limited to, the field of social policy.
On this module, students can explore the English Legal System and help develop the fundamental skills relevant to legal studies.
Students can then go on to explore the core topics covered in this module in the Law, Society, and Professional Ethics module.
Law is an inherently political tool, and (for the most part, at least) is designed to achieve certain policy aims.
Students undertaking this module can build and develop their critical thinking skills.
There may be opportunities to discuss political biases in the law, including historical, gendered, racial,  and environmental/sustainability.
Linked to this is the professional role of the lawyer in the modern world and what professional ethics apply to the legal profession.
This module introduces you to skills, such as research, communication, teamwork, reading legal sources, and constructing arguments using secondary sources and legal theory.
This module builds on your knowledge from Legal Skills A.
You can consider core transferrable employability skills, although taught in the legal context, including interviewing a client, drafting a basic legal document, conducting a negotiation, and advocacy/mooting.
You can build on these skills in level two and three, such as in the criminal law moot, the tort presentation, work on legal documentation in land law, equity and trusts, and many of the available elective modules.
Students undertaking the programme can benefit from an optional study abroad period between their second and third years.
Previous students have studied in Norway, South Africa, and Japan.
Limited places are available and are allocated competitively, subject to academic criteria.
We asked four LLB (Hons) Law students to spill the beans on their student experience at the University of Lincoln.
Why did they choose Law?
Where is their favourite place to study?
What is their favourite thing to do in Lincoln?
Watch our video to find out!
A variety of assessment methods are used to allow you to demonstrate the skills and knowledge you have gained on the course.
Some methods used, include written assignments, which may be in the form of an essay, an in-depth case study, a reflective piece, or more practically orientated writing such as a client advice letter.
You may also be assessed through mooting, individual and group presentations, negotiations, in-class activities, and online quizzes.
Some modules also make use of open-book exams at the end of the year.
Formative (mock) assessments are also utilised, giving you the chance to practice and get individual feedback before submitting the final assessments.
Module tutors are on-hand to provide further feedback and guidance on all their assessments.
Writing support is also available via the University Library, as is English Language Support for international students.
Our mock-court environment allows students to explore key principles of modern legal practice in a variety of courtroom roles to strengthen their studies and practice their mooting skills.
It features a judge's bench, witness stand, clerk's desk, and prosecution and defence solicitor's benches to simulate the environment of a working court room.
Lincoln Law School has excellent links with law firms in Lincolnshire and we offer our students a variety of opportunities to gain practical experience with our partner law firms.
This includes a professional mentoring scheme for second year law students who are partnered with local lawyers, many of whom are Lincoln Law School graduates, and a Law Placement elective module in the third year, where you spend one day a week in the autumn term in a local firm.
Admission to the Law Placement elective module is competitive, based on your grades and other criteria.
Lincoln Law School also has a partnership with the Citizens Advice Bureau (CAB), allowing our students to qualify as a CAB legal advisor.
The aim of this course is to produce independent, enquiring, and knowledgeable graduates.
You'll be encouraged to develop your practical legal skills by entering competitions in mooting and negotiation.
These skills are practised extensively in seminars and through the student-run Law Society.
In addition, there'll be an opportunity for you to take part in the University's pro bono law clinic, where you'll be able to provide legal advice to real people in real situations, under the supervision of our academic team.
There are plenty of opportunities to boost your employability and step into a career including working with local solicitors and going on placements.
Watch our video find out what four of our Law students are make the most of.
I chose the University of Lincoln because when I visited the campus at Open Day, I knew that Lincoln would become my home.
When I was greeted by a student ambassador, I felt like I was being greeted by a family member.
Emily Taylor
LLB (Hons) Law
Curiosity, energy, interest and enthusiasm for the subject of law, and commitment to successful completion of the three year course.
The study of law at A Level is not essential.
No specific skills are required but an interest and curiosity about the subject of law is important.
Excellent communication skills will be vital for the successful student.
The course is contemporary and practical in the sense it does require a great deal of participation in seminars and problem-based learning.
This course is suitable for students that have a definite interest in studying law and are fully committed towards devoting three years towards the attainment of this degree.
You'll be able to access opportunities to further develop your legal career that may enable you to become a solicitor or barrister, or work in other related areas, depending on your choice of career path.
An important focus of the course is to enable your personal development to help you to get the most out of your studies.
Learn from Law students what they love about the Law Society at the University of Lincoln and about an exciting study abroad opportunity.
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A levels or equivalent qualifications.
GCSE's:  Minimum of five at grade 4 or above, which must include English.
In addition to meeting the academic requirements, overseas students will also be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element.
Please visit our English language requirements page for a full list of the English qualifications we accept.
GCSE's:  Minimum of five at grade 4 or above, which must include English .

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/lawcriub:
Up to 6 Years
M930
A deeper understanding of the causes and effects of criminal behaviour or specialist legal expertise, or knowledge of the law governing trade and commercial relationships, can set legal professionals apart, enhancing their practice and enabling them to pursue employment in a wide range of professions.
Graduates would be well-placed to work in the Law, Public, and Corporate sectors.
Law and Criminology at Lincoln offers an introduction to the fundamental elements of law, enabling students to develop legal skills and a sound knowledge of the professionally-required foundation areas of law, while specialising in an area that interests them.
LLB (Hons) Law and Criminology at Lincoln has been developed to advance your understanding of the changing and dynamic nature of law and how it operates in practice, with a specific focus on criminal law and criminology.
You can study a mixture of core modules across law and criminology, and tailor your degree to your own interest and career ambitions by selecting optional modules across law or criminology.
The course can act as the first step towards an exciting career in the legal profession, and it provides the key skills and knowledge needed to go on to qualify as a solicitor or barrister.
The course also enables you to pursue a non-legal career in a wide range of fields, with a specific focus on crime and criminology, including the police, prison service, probation service, as well as work in government administration.
Develop a wide range of skills designed to enhance your employability
The LLB (Hons) Law and Criminology degree at Lincoln offers students the chance to study for a law degree while deepening their understanding of the causes and consequences of crime.
The programme considers the rules by which society is organised, how they can be changed, and what happens when they are broken.
It draws on a range of disciplines, including sociology, anthropology, and psychology, as well as law, meaning that graduates can progress to a diverse range of careers.
In addition to the fundamentals of law, a third of the course consists of criminology modules, which can include Applying Criminology; Images of Crime and Criminal Justice; and Human Rights (Social Sciences).
This course  enables you to study for a law degree while deepening your understanding of the causes and consequences of crime.
The seminars are a safe and constructive space for you to develop the key skills that you will need in the modern job market, including communication and team-working skills, presenting arguments, and conducting research.
Around two-thirds of the course consists of the core law modules.
The remaining modules are a mix of core criminology modules and elective modules, which can be chosen from either law or criminology.
Throughout your studies, you may have the chance to compare English law with the laws of many other countries from around the world, enhancing you understanding of global issues and your intercultural awareness.
Between their second and final years, you'll be able to take time out to study abroad or gain experience through a work placement.
A Placement Year Fee or Study Abroad Tuition Fee is payable to the University of Lincoln during this year for students joining in 2025/26 and beyond.
Places on the study abroad scheme are limited and allocated competitively.
Students are encouraged to gain as much experience as possible during the degree.
They can develop their practical legal skills in the University’s moot court, and by entering competitions in mooting and negotiation.
There is a University pro bono Law Clinic, where students have the opportunity to give legal advice to real people, under supervision.
The course provided me with an excellent understanding of the theory and practice that underpins many of the agencies within the criminal justice system and helped me to develop the skills required to be an academic.
Gary Saunders
LLB (Hons) Law and Criminology
The LLB (Hons) Law and Criminology graduates have career prospects both within and outside of the legal profession.
Some pursue paths to become barristers or solicitors, while others pursue careers in the police and criminal justice system, such as in the probation or prison service .
The best way to find out what it is really like to live and learn at Lincoln is to join us for one of our Open Days.
Visiting us in person is important and will help you to get a real feel for what it might be like to study here.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/advmktub:
PN25
Successful marketing lies at the heart of commercial success, and professionals with the skills, knowledge, and creativity to deliver powerful national and international marketing campaigns are highly sought after.
This accredited course aims to equip you for a wide range of marketing roles, across the full spectrum of an ever-evolving marketing industry.
The degree encompasses the full range of marketing and advertising disciplines, enabling understanding of the diversity of industry and challenges facing organisations.
Throughout your studies you can benefit from the expertise of industry-experienced academics and active researchers as well as opportunities to apply theory to real-life situations.
BA (Hons) Marketing and Advertising aims to develop graduates who have an understanding of the role of these key functions in business and society, and to be equipped for roles across the full spectrum of an ever-evolving marketing industry, from insight through to action and from both client and agency side, within advertising, branding, and marketing communications.
To achieve this, you are encouraged to develop the ability to apply marketing techniques at strategic and operational levels to meet business objectives, and to be creative problem solvers with confidence, business acumen and skills in persuasive communication, presenting, and teamwork.
You will be introduced to the fundamentals of strategic marketing and advertising communications, including buyer behaviour, brand development, the advertising process and creativity, media planning, ethics and responsibility, and global marketing.
This degree specifically addresses the rapid growth in digital marketing and the need from industry for new graduates with knowledge of marketing, advertising, and digital awareness and skills.
Accredited by the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM)
Optional year-long study abroad
See marketing in action during optional field trips
Graduates working at  Airbus, Amazon, Asos, Bosch, Greene King, Next, and X
Throughout your studies, you can develop a knowledge of contemporary advertising and marketing theory and practice, and recognition of the essential tools and frameworks to build a comprehensive understanding of marketing and advertising and their role in business and wider society.
From the first day of your course, can you build a knowledge of the core concepts of marketing, advertising, and business which is built upon throughout your degree.
Teaching is typically delivered through lectures, seminars, workshops, and practical sessions, giving you an opportunity to learn broad themes and engage in discussion and debate.
There may also be chances to hear from guest lectures on a wide range of topics.
You may also have opportunities to work on live issues with real businesses in modules in years two and three and to take part in the Chartered Institute of Marketing's The Pitch national competition with a live client brief.
Although independent learning is expected, you will be assigned a personal tutor and have opportunities to attend group and one-to-one sessions across your studies.
Key aspects of the industry are explored and debated as students move from a general business, marketing, and advertising grounding in year one to more specialist modules in years two and three.
The focus is on building marketing and advertising competencies, such as creativity, problem-solving, oral and written presentation, and persuasive communication.
In the first year, you are introduced to the foundations of marketing, advertising and general business, including examining organisational behaviour and understanding business data.
In the second year, the course builds on these foundations exploring concepts and processes such as strategic marketing planning and the application of advertising and marketing.
In the final year, modules explore specific areas of marketing, media, branding, and advertising, alongside an independent project where you can choose to focus within the field of advertising and/or marketing.
Building on knowledge gained in first year modules on marketing and advertising, students will look at how advertising works at a number of different levels.
It particularly explores issues relating to the dynamics of the advertising and media agency sector to familiarise students with the issues faced by clients and agencies in their relationship with each other and the deliverables they produce.
The relationship is considered from both the agency and client perspective, developing students' understanding of the roles and functions in the process of creating advertising, with the aim to foster an appreciation of the level of detail and understanding involved to deliver effective advertising communications.
Students can appraise how people respond to advertising psychologically and how this can be conceptualised.
The module will cover contemporary issues in advertising, including social and ethical issues, and the breadth of traditional and digital advertising.
This is a 15 credit module that develops from ADV2014 in semester A.
The overall aim for these two modules is for students to develop an understanding and awareness of advertising, from a theoretical, managerial, and practical perspective.
Students build on concepts and theories of how advertising works, with further reflections on advertising creative executions and the creative contribution to the advertising process.
This module fosters an appreciation of the creative aspects of advertising and students will examine the creative contribution to the advertising process, in particular what it is and who makes it, alongside considering different creative styles and techniques.
Students can also learn how to present creative work to agency staff and to clients, to evaluate creative work, and to give and receive constructive feedback.
This module presents the key principles, theories, and practices of branding, brand management, and advertising’s role in development of a brand, through experiential learning.
Over two terms this module builds from theory to skills development and practical application.
In the first term, students are able to gain the knowledge, skills, and tools needed to successfully analyse, audit, and strategically manage a brand in today’s competitive environment.
The second part of this module explores marketing and advertising for brand building and new product launches, with consideration of digital and traditional communications to engage effectively with customers in the brand management process.
At the heart of this module are the fundamental principles of branding and the role that advertising plays in the development of brands (building on previous advertising modules and extending principles of advertising strategically, and from a variety of perspectives).
This module aims to provide an insight into strategic media planning, emphasising critical thinking and applied analytical skills regarding strategic communication.
The module will cover media research, evaluation, selection and planning as well as decision-making in the context of media planning.
The module aims to develop the skills required for students interested in pursuing a career that requires media interaction.
Students can hear from guest speakers who share their industry expertise and professional practice experience.
Recent speakers have included a Senior Director Marketing Effectiveness at Mars, an Advertising Strategist at Spindogs , an Account Manager at VCCP, and a VP Global Insights and Analytics at McDonalds.
We also offer talks and webinars from the Chartered Institute of Marketing.
I really enjoyed the fun and creative ways we were able to showcase our knowledge.
For example, pitching a brand and product idea in a Dragons' Den-style format within the Principles of Marketing module.
We also gained hands-on experience working with brands like Pipers Crisps and the Lincoln Bomber Command Centre – both of which were fascinating projects.
Jack Salmon
BA (Hons) Marketing and Advertising, MSc Marketing / CEO & Founder of Searchflex
The way you are assessed on this course may vary for each module.
Examples of assessment methods that may be used include coursework, such as written assignments and reports; practical assessments such as presentations, exhibitions and vivas; and written exams, such as formal examinations or in-class tests.
Assessments can include coursework such as written assignments, essays, reports, portfolios, and reflective logs; practical work including presentations, exhibitions, role play, and oral assessments; and exams including in-class tests or written exams.
This programme is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) and upon successful completion students are awarded 'advanced standing'.
This will enable students to study for CIM qualifications without needing to complete all of the modules.
Students can also add an individual award to supplement their degree (note that this incurs some additional cost).
You don't have to pay tuition fees for this year, but you will need to cover your travel, accommodation, and general living costs.
Students who complete the one-year professional practice placement will be awarded a BA (Hons) Marketing and Advertising (with Professional Practice).
Those who choose not to complete a placement will receive a BA (Hons) Marketing and Advertising, or equivalent exit award.
Hear about Gracie's journey, from studying at Lincoln, to how her work placement year has enriched her student experience.
From working in communications, to supporting large-scale events and understanding how branding can impact a global business!
Full-time students on this course may have the opportunity to take a year-long International Year Abroad (IYA) between the second and third year, or a study abroad semester in the second year.
Studying at one of the University's approved partner institutions is an opportunity to study in a cross-cultural environment with wider cultural experience and can enhance your future employment opportunities.
If being taken as an IYA, with many partner institutions supporting internships , i t is also possible for students to elect to combine study (minimum one semester equivalent) with work and or a period of volunteering.
Eligible students must have completed their second year of study to a satisfactory standard (normally with an average of a 2:2 or above, dependent upon partner requirements) and successfully completed the application process.
Successful completion of the IYA will be reflected in the award title - BA (Hons) Marketing and Advertising (International Study Year).
There may be opportunities for additional funding through scholarships (dependent on availability).
Students may be invited to join optional field trips throughout their studies to see effective marketing in action.
Previously, trips have included visits to Jaguar Land Rover, the Museum of Brands, and the World Marketing Summit.
I n addition, there is an optional visit to advertising agencies in New York, which is funded at student's own expense.
I would recommend this course to anyone who is looking for a career in the industry.
It is led by fantastic lecturers and it didn’t just open my eyes to the world of advertising and marketing, it also helped to develop my passion for the subject.
Tom Porter
BA (Hons) Marketing and Advertising
Recent Marketing and Advertising graduates have gone on to work in a variety of sectors and roles across the public, charity, private sectors, including advertising agency account management, digital marketing, marketing research and insights, sales, merchandising, and full-service marketing.
Some of our most recent graduates have gone on to work in organisations such as X, Nielsen, Nestle, Mediacom, Centre Parcs, Notts County Football Club, Bosch, Dyson and Joules.
Others have equally rewarding roles in marketing agencies such as Krow, Ketchup, The Marketing Practice, Carrington Communications, Rise at Seven, and Moreish.
Graduates have also gone onto advertising agencies such as VCCP, Grey, Ogilvy, and McCann.
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications level 3 qualifications.
GCSE's: Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English and Maths.
Optional Field Trips
LIBS 100
Business School students at Lincoln can expand their horizons and see international business in action by joining fully funded international field trips to exciting overseas destinations.
Places on the LIBS100 programme are awarded competitively to 100 eligible students each academic year.
Destinations include India, China, Germany, and other global business centres.
The scheme covers students' travel and accommodation costs.
Find out more: https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/lbs/libs100/
At Lincoln International Business School, we take an international perspective and our research informs teaching on all of our courses.
We carry out research with businesses, government and not-for-profit organisations to deepen knowledge and understanding in order to make a tangible difference to industry and society.
Student Society
The Marketing, Advertising and Public Relations Society is open to all students with an interest in these areas.
The group organises networking activities, trips, guest lectures, and social events.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/mthmthub:
G100
Mathematical and problem-solving skills are highly valued by employers in a range of sectors, including science and technology, government, and finance.
This research-informed degree aims to provide a fundamental education in the field of mathematics, including pure and applied mathematics.
Students can work alongside academic staff on challenging projects, which could contribute to academic research or collaboration with industry.
The School of Engineering and Physical Sciences aims provide a friendly, approachable culture for students to join, and students encouraged them to apply imagination, creativity, and rigour to the solution of various problems.
Subject ranked 3rd in the UK for teaching satisfaction*
Institute of Mathematics and its Applications (IMA) accreditation
Informed by cutting-edge research
Guest speakers from around the world
Additional problem-solving tutorials
Placement Year available
*Guardian University Guide 2025 (out of 60 ranking institutions)
This course covers the core topics of mathematics.
It aims to provide a thorough grounding in analytical and numerical methods, practical scientific skills, and research techniques.
Additionally, students are encouraged to develop transferable communication, problem solving, and decision-making skills throughout their studies.
Students will have the opportunity to study a broad range of mathematical topics, comprising both compulsory and optional modules.
Modules are delivered using various methods including lectures, seminars, problem-solving classes, tutorial classes, and workshops.
In the first year students can benefit from an additional three hours per week of problem solving tutorials.
There are also opportunities to take part in individual and group projects.
During the first year of the programme, the School of Engineering and Physical Sciences runs a tutor system, providing one hour weekly tutor sessions in small groups.
This module begins with refreshing and expanding some of the material from the A-levels Maths, such as the binomial theorem, division of polynomials, polynomial root-finding, and factorisations.
Then the Euclidean algorithm is introduced with some of its many applications, both for integers and for polynomials.
This naturally leads to a discussion of divisibility and congruences, for integers and for polynomials, with emphasis on similarities and as a step towards abstraction.
This module focuses on the concepts of the derivative and the Riemann integral, which are indispensable in modern sciences.
Two approaches are used: both intuitive-geometric, and mathematically rigorous, based on the definition of continuous limits.
Important results are the Mean Value Theorem, leading to the representation of some functions as power series (the Taylor series), and the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus which establishes the relationship between differentiation and integration.
Further calculus tools are explored, such as the general properties of the derivative and the Riemann integral, as well as the techniques of integration.
In this module, students may deal with many "popular" functions used throughout mathematics.
This module presents an introduction to computer packages for analytic formulas manipulation (computer algebra) and technical computing.
Students will also have the opportunity to develop skills including; utilising a logbook as a factual record and as reflective self-assessment to support their learning.
This module introduces established theories describing optical, acoustic, and mechanical phenomena.
The optics part includes Fermat’s principle of light propagation, Snell’s laws of reflection and refraction, thin lenses, and Huygens’s principle.
The mechanics part includes the basic mathematical tools to describe the motion of objects (kinematics) and the laws of Newton (dynamics) underpinning these observed motions.
The wave part of the module includes a discussion of propagating waves, the Doppler effect, phase and group velocities, and standing waves.
The purpose of this module is to introduce students to basic mathematical reasoning such as rigorous definitions and proofs, logical structure of mathematical statements.
Students will have the opportunity to learn the set-theoretic notation, get acquainted with various strategies of mathematical proofs such as proof by mathematical induction or proof by contradiction.
Rigorous definitions of limits of sequences and functions will form a foundation for other courses on calculus and differential equations.
The importance of definitions and proofs will be illustrated by examples of "theorems" which may seem obvious but are actually false, as well as certain mathematical "paradoxes".
This module describes vector spaces and matrices.
Matrices are regarded as representations of linear mappings between vector spaces.
Eigenvalues and eigenvectors are introduced, which lead to diagonalisation and reduction to other canonical forms.
Special types of mappings and matrices (orthogonal, symmetric) are also introduced.
This module begins with an introduction of a probability space, which models the possible outcomes of a random experiment.
Basic concepts such as statistical independence and conditional probability are introduced, with various practical examples used as illustrations.
Random variables are introduced, and certain well-known probability distributions are explored.
Further study includes discrete distributions, independence of random variables, mathematical expectation, random vectors, covariance and correlation, conditional distributions and the law of total expectation.
The ideas developed for discrete distributions are applied to continuous distributions.
Probability theory is a basis of mathematical statistics, which has so many important applications in science, industry, government and commerce.
Students will have the opportunity to gain a basic understanding of statistics and its tools.
It is important that these tools are used correctly when, for example, the full picture of a problem (population) must be inferred from collected data (random sample).
This module provides students the opportunity to learn a variety of transferable skills: to communicate scientific ideas via a variety of media, to work in groups, to manage and plan projects, to keep record of work.
Students have the opportunity to develop an understanding of general and specialized databases, their uses and searches.
Group study can develop Students' skills in team-working around investigating a topic from literature.
Students have the opportunity to take on administrative roles within the team and work towards common aims and objectives.
The concepts of groups, rings and fields are introduced, as examples of arbitrary algebraic systems.
The basic theory of subgroups of a given group and the construction of factor groups is introduced, and then similar constructions are introduced for rings.
Examples of rings are considered, including the integers modulo n, the complex numbers and n-by-n matrices.
The ring of polynomials over a given field is studied in more detail.
Transmission of data may mean sending pictures from the Mars rover, streaming live music or videos, speaking on the phone, answering someone's question “do you love me?”.
Problems arise if there are chances of errors creeping in, which may be catastrophic (say, receiving “N” instead of “Y”).
Coding theory provides error-correcting codes, which are designed in such a way that errors that occur can be detected and corrected (within certain limits) based on the remaining symbols.
The problem is balancing reliability with cost and/or slowing the transmission.
Students will have the opportunity to study various types of error-correcting codes, such as linear codes, hamming codes, perfect codes, etc., some of which are algebraic and some correspond to geometrical patterns.
Ideas of calculus of derivatives and integrals are extended to complex functions of a complex variable.
Students will learn that complex differentiability is a very strong condition and differentiable functions behave very well.
Integration along paths in the complex plane is introduced.
One of the main results of this beautiful part of mathematics is Cauchy's Theorem that states that certain integrals along closed paths are equal to zero.
This gives rise to useful techniques for evaluating real integrals based on the 'calculus of residues'.
Calculus techniques already provide solutions of simple first-order differential equations.
Solution of second-order differential equations can sometimes be achieved by certain manipulations.
Students may learn about existence and geometric interpretations of solutions, even when calculus techniques do not yield solutions in a simple form.
This is a part of the existence theory of ordinary differential equations and leads to fundamental techniques of the asymptotic and qualitative study of their solutions, including the important question of stability.
Fourier series and Fourier transform are introduced.
This module provides an introduction to the classical second-order linear partial differential equations and techniques for their solution.
The basic concepts and methods are introduced for typical partial differential equations representing the three classes: parabolic, elliptic, and hyperbolic.
This module aims to provide students with the experience of working as part of a team on a project.
Students will have the opportunity to produce a set of deliverables relevant to their programme of study.
Final deliverables will be negotiated between the group and their supervisor, the module coordinator will be responsible for ensuring that each project covers the learning outcomes of the module.
Groups are expected to manage their own processes, and to hold regular meetings both with and without their supervisor.
Groups will be allocated by the module coordinator and other members of staff.
The process of development of the topic under study and the interaction and management of group members underpins the assessment of skills in the module.
Students have the opportunity to learn how mathematics is applied to modern industrial problems, and how the mathematical apparatus finds applications in the financial sector.
This module is concerned with a modern formulation of mechanics called Lagranian mechanics whereby the actually observed motion of an object is viewed as one among many potentially conceivable motions.
The selection process of the actual motion satisfies the so-called Principle of Minimum Action.
The corresponding formalism allows to tackle very intricate mechanical problems and has many technical advantages with regards to changes of variables.
A ‘dual’ theory called Hamiltonian mechanics can also be formalized with its own advantages to address problems in mechanics.
These two theories constitute the foundation on which quantum mechanics, statistical and quantum field theories are based.
The module delivery includes the Minimum Action Principle, Euler-Lagrange equations, Noether’s theorem, Hamilton’s equations, and Poisson brackets
Students will have the opportunity to utilise computers for the numerical solution and simulation of models of physical and mathematical systems, including the use of computer procedural programming languages to solve computational problems.
Numerical algorithms will be introduced to exemplify key concepts in computational programming, with the emphasis on understanding the nature of the algorithm and the features and limitations of its computational implementation.
In creating programs, the emphasis will be on using effective programming techniques and on efficient debugging, testing and validation methods.
Students may also develop skills at using a logbook as a factual record and as reflective self-assessment to support their learning.
This is a triple module in which a student undertakes an individual project under supervision of a research-active member of staff and during which the student is exposed to various research material and undertakes various tasks in relation to scientific communication.
The individual project can be undertaken at an external collaborating establishment.
Projects will be offered to students in a wide range of subjects aligned with their course specialism.
The student will meet regularly with their supervisor in order to receive guidance and review progress.
Symmetry, understood in most broad sense as invariants under transformations, permeates all parts of mathematics, as well as natural sciences.
Groups are measures of such symmetry and therefore are used throughout mathematics.
Abstract group theory studies the intrinsic structure of groups.
The course begins with definitions of subgroups, normal subgroups, and group actions in various guises.
Group homomorphisms are introduced and the related isomorphism theorems are proved.
Sylow p-subgroups are introduced and the three Sylow theorems are proved.
Throughout, symmetry groups are used as examples.
The module aims to equip students with knowledge of various numerical methods for solving applied mathematics problems, their algorithms and implementation in programming languages.
This module introduces tensors, which are abstract objects describing linear relations between vectors, scalars, and other tensors.
The module aims to equip students with the knowledge of tensor manipulation, and introduces their applications in modern science.
This module gives a mathematical foundation of ideal and viscous fluid dynamics and their application to describing various flows in nature and technology.
Students are taught methods of analysing and solving equations of fluid dynamics using analytic and most modern computational tools.
This module is designed to provide students with an insight into the teaching of Mathematics at secondary school level and does this by combining university lectures with an experience of a placement in a secondary school Mathematics department.
The module aims to provide students with an opportunity to engage with cutting-edge maths education research and will examine how this research impacts directly on classroom practice.
Students will have the opportunity to gain an insight into some of the key ideas in Mathematics pedagogy and how these are implemented in the school Mathematics lessons and will develop an understanding about the barriers to learning Mathematics that many students experience.
The module aims to equip students with methods to analyse and solve various mathematical equations found in physics and technology.
The course is assessed through a variety of means, including coursework, examinations, written reports, and oral presentations.
Our BSc programme currently meets the educational requirements of the Chartered Mathematician designation.
This is awarded by the Institute of Mathematics and its Applications (IMA), when it is followed by subsequent training and experience in employment to obtain equivalent competences to those specified by the Quality Assurance Agency for taught Master’s degrees.
The MMath programme is accredited by the IMA.
Teaching on this course is conducted by academic members of staff who are active researchers in their fields.
This research informs teaching at all levels of the programme.
Staff conduct cutting-edge research in fundamental and applied mathematics and physics, ranging from pure mathematics to applied nano-science at the interface between biology, chemistry, physics, and mathematics.
The School of Engineering and Physical Sciences collaborates with top research institutions in Germany, Japan, Norway, the Netherlands, Singapore, Spain, and the USA.
The School of Engineering and Physical Sciences regularly welcomes guest speakers from around the world.
Studying Mathematics at Lincoln is a way to learn more about a subject that has many applications within the real world, whilst also learning about theoretical Mathematics.
It has helped me to grow as a mathematician.
William Evans
Students on this course are encouraged to obtain and undertake work placements independently in the UK or overseas during their studies, providing hands-on experience in industry.
These can range from a few weeks to a full year if students choose the sandwich year option.
Placements may be conducted with external research institutions (which can be overseas).
The option is subject to availability and selection criteria set by the industry or external institution.
Mathematics graduates may go on to careers in science and technology, engineering, computing, medicine, education, consultancy, business and finance, and within government bodies.
Some may choose to undertake further study at postgraduate level.
Our courses aim to provide a thorough grounding in analytical and numerical methods, practical scientific skills, and research methods.
Additionally, transferable skills such as communications, problem-solving, and decision-making, which students are expected to develop throughout their studies, are valuable in many areas of employment.
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications to include 40 points in Maths.
BTEC and T Level qualifications will be considered provided a grade B is obtained in A Level Maths.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall to include a Higher Level Grade 5 in Maths.
BTEC qualifications will be considered provided a grade B is obtained in A Level Maths.
T-level will be considered provided a grade B is obtained in A Level Maths.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/mthmthum:
G102
The research-informed MMath Mathematics degree covers the core topics of mathematics.
Additionally, students are encouraged to develop transferable communication, problem-solving, and decision making skills throughout their studies.
The four-year MMath course is designed for those seeking to develop advanced mathematical skills.
The first three years are common with the BSc (Hons) Mathematics course, while the fourth year offers the opportunity to study more advanced topics in greater depth.
The MMath also provides the opportunity to undertake a significant individual project.
The first three years are common with the BSc Mathematics.
In the fourth year students are expected to progress to more advanced and in-depth topics, with a greater proportion of independent project work.
The reading module allows students the opportunity to acquire knowledge of a particular area of mathematics, and develop the skills needed to study mathematics in a more independent manner.
The module also provides an opportunity for Master's level students to study certain subjects in mathematics which may not be covered by any regular lecture modules, thus adding to the flexibility of the scheme of studies.
Subject areas for proposed reading modules will be announced to students, together with an indicative syllabus.
The choice offered will depend on the range of other lecture modules available to MMath students, as well as on the availability of teaching staff with particular areas of mathematical expertise, who could be able to act as moderators.
The role of the reading module moderator is to provide students with support for their reading, including the setting of mathematical problems that are to be solved.
The moderator also sets the written examination paper.
This module brings together the main ideas and methods of the mathematical theory of financial markets.
In addition, the methods of practical calculations of volatilities of traded assets from historical data are discussed.
The influence of randomness of the interest rate and volatilities on price of options is studied.
Lie algebras originated in the theory of continuous transformation groups as a means of introducing more linear structure and facilitate the classification of the so-called simple Lie groups.
Theory of Lie algebras is now a well-established part of mathematics developing both in its own right and as a means of studying groups and even theoretical mechanics.
This module deals with abstract Lie algebras.
Students will have the opportunity to learn the basic properties of various classes of Lie algebras, including soluble, nilpotent, semisimple, graded, etc.
Important results on automorphisms and derivations of Lie algebras and the classification of finite-dimensional simple complex Lie algebras will be discussed.
In this quadruple module a student may undertake a substantial project under supervision of a research-active member of staff.
Projects will be offered to students in a wide range of subjects, which will be assigned with account for student's individual preferences and programme of their studies.
The project can be undertaken at an external collaborating establishment.
Students are expected to meet regularly with their supervisor in order to receive guidance and review progress.
The project will result in a final written report/dissertation on a chosen mathematical area.
112 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications to include 40 points from Maths.
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 112 UCAS Tariff points, including 40 points from 15 credits in Maths.
International Baccalaureate: 29 points overall to include a Higher Level Grade 5 in Maths.
GCSE's:  Minimum of three at grade 4  or above, which must include English and Maths.
A Level: BBC to BBB to include a Grade B in Maths
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 104 to 112 UCAS points to be achieved from 45 Level 3 credits, including 40 points from 15 credits in Maths.
International Baccalaureate: 30 points overall to include a Higher Level in Maths.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/mthcmpub:
GG14
With digital technologies driving advances in many aspects of the modern world, there is growing demand for graduates with combined skills in mathematics and computer science across a wide range of sectors.
The BSc (Hons) Mathematics and Computer Science joint honours degree at Lincoln offers a broad education in applied and pure mathematics, coupled with the opportunity to develop the analytical and problem-solving skills associated with computer science.
Mathematics is at the foundation of many different areas, and the joint aspect of this programme provides students with the opportunity to access a higher level of understanding in both fields, as a combined effort.
Subject ranked in the top 10 in the UK for student satisfaction*
*Complete University Guide 2025 (out of 62 ranking institutions).
This joint honours degree aims to offer a broad education in applied and pure mathematics, coupled with the opportunity to develop the analytical and problem-solving skills associated with computer science.
The programme provides students with opportunities to advance their understanding in both fields and emphasises the bridges between theory and practice.
Students have the chance to learn from, and work alongside, our team of academics.
They can support and encourage them to apply imagination, creativity, and rigour, to the solution of real-world problems.
In the first year students have the chance to benefit from an additional three hours per week of problem-solving tutorials.
During the first year of the programme, the School of Engineering and Physical Sciences also runs a tutor system, providing one hour weekly tutor sessions in small groups.
The course is taught via lectures, problem-solving classes, computer based-classes and seminars.
This module aims at exposing students to modern research practices by having them engage with two facets of modern research:
Research awareness: By following research seminars in mathematics accurately reporting on their scientific content in a suitable writing style, and demonstrate awareness of scientific quality standard processes by critically reviewing a research article.
Individual research project: By undertaking an individual research project under the supervision of a member of staff.
Projects will be offered to students in a wide range of subjects, assigned with consideration of a students' individual preferences and programme of their studies.
It provides students with an opportunity to demonstrate their ability to work independently on an in-depth project with a computer implementation element of mathematically relevant problem.
Students will normally be expected to demonstrate their ability to apply practical and analytical skills, innovation and/or creativity, and to be able to synthesise information, ideas and practices to provide a problem solution.
The course is assessed through a variety of means, including tests, course work, examinations, written reports, and oral presentations.
The MSci programme is accredited by the IMA.
This combined degree comprises some of the most industry-relevant and interesting modules, which are cherry-picked from the two disciplines.
Nick Short
BSc (Hons) Mathematics and Computer Science
Graduates may choose to use their problem-solving and analytical skills to develop careers in areas such as research, IT, science, education, consultancy, finance, business, and industry in the UK and overseas.
Some may go on to undertake further study at postgraduate level.
Additionally, transferable skills such as communications, problem-solving, and decision-making, which students are expected to develop throughout their studies, are valuable in many spheres of employment.
T Level: Will be considered provided a Grade B is obtained in A Level Maths
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points, including 40 points from 15 credits in Maths and 15 credits in Maths.
BTEC qualifications will be considered provided a grade B is obtained in A Level Maths

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/mthcmpum:
G104
This Integrated Master's programme provides students with opportunities to advance their understanding in both fields, and emphasises the bridges between theory and practice.
Students are encouraged to develop a broad knowledge and skills base that is suitable for computer and IT-related posts across a range of sectors, as well as research and analytical roles.
Students are able to personalise the degree by choosing the modules that best align with their career aspirations or areas of interest.
Individual and group projects during the course are designed to develop transferable skills.
This integrated Master's degree (MSci) offers students the opportunity to continue their study for an additional year at an advanced level, examining topics in greater depth and undertaking substantial, additional project work.
During the first year of the programme, the School of Mathematics and Physics also runs a tutor system, providing one hour weekly tutor sessions in small groups.
In this quadruple module a student undertakes a substantial project under supervision of a research-active member of staff.
Students independently conduct a substantial research in modern mathematical/computational science working in a research group of the school, university or an external collaborating establishment.
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 112 to 120 UCAS points to be achieved from 45 Level 3 credits, including 40 points from 15 credits in Maths.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/mthphyub:
GF13
Taking a joint honours in Mathematics and Physics at Lincoln allows students to explore the interplay between these two important disciplines, and the ways in which they co-exist and complement each other.
The degree aims to provide a broad education in mathematics.
This includes pure and applied mathematics.
This is alongside fundamental and applied physics, enabling students to develop the knowledge and problem-solving skills vital to modern science and technology.
This course is designed to provide a thorough foundation in analytical and numerical methods, practical scientific skills, and research techniques.
It gives students the opportunity to develop a range of transferable skills, such as communication and problem solving.
Subject area ranked 1st in the UK for student satisfaction*
IMA and IOP accreditation
*Complete University Guide 2025 (out of 45 ranking institutions).
In the first year students can study modules including Algebra; Calculus; and Electricity, Magnetism, Thermal and Quantum Physics.
Second year students progress onto modules which include Condensed Matter Physics, Scientific Computing, and Differential Equations, alongside the opportunity to complete a group project.
In the third year students can study Numerical Methods and Statistical Mechanics and have the opportunity to select from a range of optional modules.
The course is taught through lectures, problem-solving classes, computer-based classes, and seminars.
In addition to lectures and problem-solving classes, first year students in the School of Engineering and Physical Sciences can benefit from weekly one hour tutorial sessions in small groups.
This module covers basic notions of modern physics.
In electricity and magnetism these include Coulomb’s law, electrostatic vector and potential fields, magnetic fields, motion of charges and currents in electromagnetic fields, and the basics of electric circuits.
In thermal these include the zeroth, and first and second laws of thermodynamics applied to different model situations.
The quantum physics part introduces notions such as the wave-particle duality, the concept of wavefunction, energy quantization, and simple models of the atom.
This module aims to introduce fundamental concepts in modern astronomy from planets up to the universe as a whole.
This modules covers the first established classical theory of fields, namely the theory of electromagnetic fields.
After introducing the necessary mathematical tools such as curl, divergence, and gradient, the module discusses the macroscopic and microscopic Maxwell’s equations of electromagnetism as well as their solutions for some model problems in vacuum and in some materials.
Topics covered include Gauss’s law, Maxwell’s law of induction, Faraday’s law, time-dependent electromagnetic fields, electromagnetic waves, and dielectric and magnetic materials.
This module introduces two pillars of modern physics: statistical mechanics and quantum physics.
Both theories involve the combination of probability theory and physical concepts.
The module will aim to equip students with the tools of probability theory necessary to engage with these two theories.
It will then delve into a presentation of classical equilibrium statistical mechanics and the basic principles of quantum physics.
In contemporary research, condensed matter physics pertains to the physics of condensed phases of matter such as solid and liquids.
Depending on the properties of interest, condensed matter physics is traditionally split in two different sub-fields: solid state physics dealing primarily with the behaviour of electrons in periodic solids, and soft-matter physics dealing with the properties of assemblies of atoms in a somewhat confined space.
This module introduces the basic ideas of these two worlds from Drude’s model and the band theory of conductivity in solids to the physics of colloidal and polymeric systems.
The aim of the this module is to use appropriate cosmological models to understand the Universe from early to current and late epochs,
This module is designed to provide students with an insight into the teaching of science at secondary school level and does this by combining university lectures with an experience of a placement in a secondary school science department.
The module is particularly aimed at those considering a career in science teaching and provides students with an opportunity to engage with cutting edge science education research and will examine how this research impacts directly on classroom practice.
Students will have the opportunity to gain an insight into some of the key ideas in science pedagogy and how these are implemented in the school science lessons and will develop an understanding about the barriers to learning science that many students experience.
The course is assessed through a variety of means, including tests, course work, examinations, written reports and oral presentations.
This programme is accredited by the Institute of Physics (IOP).
Holders of accredited degrees are eligible for IOP membership and can follow a route to professional registration as a RSci, CPhys, and/or CSci.
There is a wealth of materials provided by lecturers for independent study, they also show you where to find information beyond the scope of the module if you are interested and want to learn more.
Margaret-Ann Withington
MMath Mathematics and Physics
Mathematics and Physics graduates may go on to careers in science and technology, engineering, computing, medicine, education, consultancy, business and finance, and within government bodies.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/mthphyum:
GFC3
Taking a joint honours in Mathematics and Theoretical Physics at Lincoln allows students to explore the interplay between these two important disciplines, and the ways in which they co-exist and complement each other.
The first three years are common with the BSc (Hons) Mathematics and Physics degree, while the fourth year offers the opportunity to study more advanced topics in greater depth.
This year also includes a significant industrial or academic project.
In the second year, students progress to modules which include Condensed Matter Physics, Scientific Computing, and Differential Equations, alongside the opportunity to complete an group project.
Students who opt to enrol on this MMath programme will continue their study for a fourth year at an advanced level, examining topics in greater depth and undertaking substantial, additional project work.
The course is taught via lectures, problem-solving classes, computer-based classes, and seminars.
In addition to lectures and problem-solving classes, first year students within the School of Engineering and Physical Sciences can benefit from weekly one hour tutor sessions in small groups.
This module covers the formalism of quantum mechanics underpinning a substantial part of our current understanding of the microscopic world.
Topics covered include commutators, operators and observables, Shrodinger’s equation, Born rule, spin, Hydrogen atom, time-independent perturbation theory, time-dependent perturbation theory, and identical particles.
This module is concerned with bridging a microscopic description of the world (via classical or quantum Hamiltonian mechanics) with a macroscopic description world (via thermodynamics).
This is done by considering a probability measure on the space of possible mechanical (micro)states of a system.
Topics covered include the basics of probability theory, notions of statistical equilibrium, statistical ensembles (canonical and microcanonical) applied to model systems, thermodynamic potentials and partition functions, and the statistical mechanics of identical particles.
Students independently conduct a substantial research in modern mathematical, computational or theoretical physics working in a research group of the school, university or an external collaborating establishment.
The module will introduce students to a diverse range of contemporary issues in applied physics which have a high societal impact.
Students will work independently on specific subjects of their choice amongst a proposed selection, and will hone their ability to synthetise contrary views from the scientific literature as well as their ability to look at multifaceted problems from multiple vantage points.
This module introduces modern computational techniques for molecular modelling in condensed matter physics.
112 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications to include 48 points from Maths.
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 112 UCAS Tariff points, including 48 points from 15 credits in Maths
International Baccalaureate: 29 points overall to include a Higher Level 5 in Maths.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/mthphlub:
VG51
This joint programme combines a foundation of pure and applied mathematics with the study of Philosophy, reflecting the complementary nature of these two disciplines to help explain our world and our place in it.
Mathematics with Philosophy at Lincoln combines two of the most fundamental and widely applicable intellectual skills.
The course aims to provide students with the knowledge and ability to tackle quantifiable problems and to analyse issues and question assumptions.
This enables them to develop their understanding of logic and reasoning.
Students have the opportunity to learn from, and work alongside, our team of academics who can support and encourage them to apply imagination, creativity, and rigour to the solution of real-world problems.
Subject ranked top 15 in the UK for student satisfaction*
*Complete University Guide 2025 (out of 46 ranking institutions).
Students can focus on numerical and analytical methods of mathematics, while developing a range of transferable skills, including logical reasoning, critical thinking, communication, and teamwork.
This combination is intended to help students to develop the skills to tackle a variety of topics from different angles.
It seeks to help students find answers and to evaluate the questions and reasoning behind them.
In the first year topics include algebra, calculus, ideas of mathematical proof, and an introduction to philosophical logic.
In the second year students progress to differential equations, scientific computing, and the philosophy of science.
The third year provides the opportunity for students to select from a range of optional modules to tailor the degree to their own interests.
The course is taught via lectures, problem solving classes, computer-based classes, and seminars.
This module introduces some of the basic ideas and concepts of philosophical logic and the technical vocabulary that is required for understanding contemporary philosophical writing.
Students are introduced to logical concepts such as validity, soundness, consistency, possibility, necessity, contingency, inductive and deductive forms of argument, necessary and sufficient conditions, the rudiments of formalisation, and a range of logical fallacies.
The emphasis will be on using logic to construct and evaluate arguments.
This module gives students the opportunity to build and demonstrate problem-solving skills in the context of applied philosophy.
Students will be introduced to the interdisciplinary methods of applied ethics and examine together a series of selected applied ethics case studies, drawn from a variety of different  areas including health care, climate justice, AI, beginning and end of life.
Students will then work on an individual project which they will present in poster form at the end of the module.
The module will  give students a thorough grounding in applied ethics and enable them to evidence the key employability skill of  problem-solving in the context of applied philosophy.
This module provides an introduction to Indian philosophy and gives students the opportunity to study some of the classic texts of Indian philosophy in detail.
While texts will be studied in English translation students will also gain a familiarity with the elements of classical Indian (principally Sanskrit) philosophical vocabulary.
Topics will be drawn from both the astika (orthodox Hindu) schools such as Naya-Vaisheshika and Samkhya-Yoga and nastika schools such as Jainism and Buddhism, and will cover areas such as logic, epistemology, metaphysics, and linguistics.
This module focuses on a range of philosophical questions relating to mental illness and its treatment.
What makes a person mentally healthy or mentally unhealthy?
What makes a conscious state psychotic or delusional?
How might mental disorders be distinguished from non-disordered mental states and conditions?
Would certain putative mental illnesses be better characterized as “problems with living” rather than as specifically medical conditions?
Should, as per the prevailing tendency in contemporary psychiatry, the subjective experience of individuals suffering from mental illnesses, such as depression and schizophrenia, be understood chiefly in terms of a chemical imbalance, and accordingly treated by an adjustment to brain chemistry?
Or should, as per the traditional psychoanalytic view, such conditions be understood as irreducibly tied to internal symbolic content to be decoded by the analyst and patient?
We will also consider questions raised by particular psychopathologies.
Is psychopathy best understood as a mental illness, and if so, is it appropriate to hold psychopaths responsible for their attitudes and actions?
Are certain forms of cognition currently seen as neurological/ neuro-developmental disorders (e.g., autism, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder) better understood as representing diverse or statistically atypical ways in which humans are capable of seeing and interacting with the world?
These and other questions will be explored through the lens of recent literature in the analytic tradition as well as seminal texts in the history of the philosophy of mental illness (e.g., Freud, Foucault, R.D.
Laing).
Graduates may pursue careers in the fields of science, education, finance, business, consultancy, and research and development.
This degree promotes skills in creative, critical, and independent thinking.
It may prove beneficial in careers requiring flexibility and the ability to formulate a persuasive case.
This could include careers in politics and the media, as well as the civil service, among other areas.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/egregrub:
H301
The BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering degree at Lincoln aims to produce industry-ready graduates with product design and innovative sense who are highly-skilled, creative engineers able to adapt to new challenges and deliver sustainable solutions for modern society.
The curriculum aims to support students in bridging the gap between the University and professional work by developing skills that are required by industry.
The programme offers condensed yet impactful modules that are designed to arm our students with knowledge, skills, and tools to maximise their opportunities to secure a great career.
Our innovative industrial collaborations have led to a range of workplace experience opportunities.
This programme is accredited by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE).
The accredited BEng (Hons) will meet, in part, the exemplifying academic benchmark requirements for registration as a Chartered Engineer and Students will need to complete an approved format of further learning pursuant to the requirements of UK-SPEC.
We are currently seeking re-accreditation of this programme from the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE).
Accredited by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE)
Strong industry links offer opportunities for placements, mentoring, and recr
The Mechanical Engineering programme utilises problem- and project-based learning.
We aim to narrow the gap between employers' requirements and our graduates' skills to improve employability and help facilitate their transition from higher education to work.
The first year of the degree is designed to provide a foundation in engineering theory and practice.
Students are supported in their development of important technical skills, such as computer-aided design.
The second and third years offer a range of specialist modules.
At each stage of the course, there are opportunities to practise and develop engineering skills on real-life problems through project work.
Applied Thermodynamics:
Thermodynamics is the science that deals with energy interactions in physical systems.
The purpose of this module is to build upon the basic principles that were introduced in Thermofluid 1: Fundamental, and then apply this knowledge to real engineering problems.
Heat Transfer:
Almost every branch of science and engineering includes some kind of heat transfer problem, and there is a need for engineers to have some background in this area.
The aim of this module is to provide an introduction to the basic principles and practical applications of conduction, convection and radiation heat transfer.
The process of heat transfer is often accomplished by a flowing fluid, and so this module seeks to develop further the Fluid Mechanics covered in Thermofluids at level 1, in order that students can develop their understanding to the point that real world problems can be addressed.
The aim of this module is to consolidate and build on the ideas and skills introduced in level one.
Students have the opportunity to develop their ability to model dynamic systems with particular reference to vibration analysis in practical engineering applications.
The selection of materials and manufacturing method is an integral part of the design and manufacturing procedure for producing parts and products.
The purpose of this module is to provide students with the opportunity to learn how to select appropriate materials, processing methods and manufacturing systems to produce components and products, both existing and novel.
The student is introduced to contemporary manufacturing processes and systems in an effort to select effective and efficient manufacturing processes and systems.
The aim of this module is to provide students with the opportunity to learn the background to combustion principles and theory.
Students will be introduced to traditional and renewable fuels, their combustion and utilisation and the resulting environmental impacts.
Combustion applications for energy production will be introduced along with the politics revolving around these energy applications.
The module will also consider energy policy in terms of usage.
The aim of this module is to provide the students with an understanding of the machines used in power generation applications, with a main focus on the principles of operation of machines used in base load power generation (gas turbines), but all rotating machines in power generation are considered.
Students are then able to develop a methodology for measuring the impact of machines from energy and materials usage, standpoints, and to better understand where opportunities exist to increase the efficiency of energy machines, systems and devices.
Students will build models of mass and energy flow through existing and proposed machines.
These models are then used to pinpoint the most efficient and least efficient steps of device operation.
This syllabus can be divided into two topics: i) Fundamentals of Machines in Power and Energy and ii) Energy Systems Analysis.
The module begins with the theory of gas turbines, based on fundamental thermodynamic and fluid mechanic analyses and introduces methods for improving efficiencies and increasing specific work outputs.
Students will then strengthen and expand their fundamental knowledge of thermodynamics, and apply this to develop a better understanding of energy systems and machine systems.
In addition to traditional exams, coursework assignments are used in a number of modules where students are required to work on their own or in small groups.
The programme also includes time constrained assessments (TCAs).
I thought it was brilliant that the degree modules focused not only on academic rigor, but the way they were delivered to develop of soft skills through things like group work on real industrial problems.
This meant that when looking at graduate placements and schemes, I could confidently demonstrate key competencies that were required.
Imogen Stevenson
Innovation Manager, Offshore Renewable Energy Catapult
Founded in collaboration with Siemens, the University of Lincoln’s School of Engineering has a core philosophy of research-led teaching.
Graduates may pursue a variety of career paths in areas such as control systems, power and energy, and mechanical and materials engineering.
The University’s strong industry links give Lincoln graduates enhanced opportunities for placements, mentoring, and recruitment, including at Siemens Energy in Lincoln.
Other graduate destinations include Rolls-Royce, Qinetiq, JCB, and Jaguar Landrover.
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels to include 40 points in Maths.
T Level in Engineering: Merit
BTEC Extended Diploma in Engineering : DMM
T Level in Engineering : Merit Overall

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/egregrum:
H300
The MEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering degree at Lincoln aims to produce industry-ready graduates with product design and innovative sense who are highly-skilled, creative engineers able to adapt to new challenges and deliver sustainable solutions for modern society.
The programme offers condensed yet impactful modules that are designed to arm our students with knowledge, skills, and tools to maximise their opportunity to secure a great career.
Our innovative industrial collaborations have led to a generous programme of bursaries and workplace experience opportunities.
Students on the MEng course can go on to study more advanced modules and learn about project management, teamwork, and leadership, as well as completing an extended group project.
The purpose of this module is to enable students to deepen their understanding of the key engineering materials with respect to material characteristics, their internal aspects, mechanical as well as the physical properties.
This module aims to consolidate students' learning from other modules within the areas of engineering science, materials, manufacturing technology and manufacturing processes.
The syllabus for this module can be divided into four topics:
Fundamentals
An understanding of the theory, principles and techniques used in Laser-materials Processing (LMP) are required before more advanced understanding can be achieved.
This includes knowledge of the stimulated emission phenomenon, techniques used to generate laser light, laser delivery methods and a detailed understanding of optics, including thin lens theory and the ability to identify the range of optics needed for laser beam transmission and manipulation.
Safety
Students are introduced to the principles of safe use of laser sources; covering the risk classification system, the relevance of wavelength, prevention and mitigation techniques as well as a wide range of associated considerations.
Processes
Students are introduced to the importance of wavelength in laser interactions with materials.
Industrial processes are classified by wavelength and detailed description of each process including modelling techniques are covered.
These principles are reinforced by two laboratory sessions: one for short (UV) wavelength radiation and another for long (NIR, IR) wavelength radiation.
Novel Laser Applications
Students have the opportunity to learn how to identify and describe the potential benefits to manufacturing processes offered by the application of lasers as a result of their unique characteristics.
This knowledge requires advanced application of the multidisciplinary content of a mechanical engineering degree in areas such as materials science, dynamics, thermodynamics, fluid dynamics and electronics.
Students are given the opportunity to develop an analytical understanding of complex vibrating systems, with particular reference to rotating machines such as gas turbines and wind turbines.
Students are introduced to the quantitative aspects of noise control.
The purpose of this module is to apply advanced numerical methods in the simulation of real world, industrially-relevant engineering problems.
This module will allow students to integrate their knowledge engineering to solve complex problems relating to structural integrity and failure, vibration, and thermal analysis.
Students will devise practical solutions to these problems, gaining practical experience in analysis using an industry-standard multi-physics finite element software package.
Industrially relevant case studies will be used to illustrate the techniques and modelling concepts.
Students are expected to complete an individual project in their third year of the degree course, providing an excellent opportunity to pull together every aspect of their development during the course.
University was a key stepping stone in doing the job I really enjoy.
It allowed me to become highly skilled in the engineering domain whilst building my network and finding the niche of engineering that I wanted to work in.
Jan van der Lubbe
PLM Reporting Lead at Subsea 7
BTEC Extended Diploma in Engineering accepted: Distinction, Merit, Merit.
If you are an overseas student, you may require an ATAS (Academic Technology Approval Scheme) certificate in order to enrol on this course.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/academic-technology-approval-scheme
BTEC Extended Diploma in Engineering accepted: DDM
For further information on ATAS please visit https://www.gov.uk/guidance/academic-technology-approval-scheme

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/egrbcnub:
H660
This industry-guided course aims to produce skilled engineering professionals who can actively participate in and manage the executive design and development of mechanical systems.
Mechatronics at Lincoln aims to give students the chance to design or manage systems produced through a combination of skills from the fields of mechanical and electrical engineering.
This flexibility helps to promote a large variety of possible applications, helping students to learn how to manage the demands of the continuous evolution of technology as well as the job market.
The first two years of study will lay the common foundations in areas including mathematics, computing systems, mechanical, and electrical engineering, as well as information and telecommunication in the industrial automation sector.
During the second year, students undertake the group Innovation Project module, which provides their first insight into modern mechanical systems.
Students have the opportunity to consolidate their practical knowledge in the third year while undertaking an individual project on an aspect of mechatronics engineering.
Course accredited by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE)
Undertake an individual mechatronics engineering project
Informed by the latest demands of the sector
The overall aim of this programme is to create graduates who will be aligned with the needs of industry.
The first two years of study aim to lay the common foundations of knowledge required for further study.
The final year provides students with an opportunity to deepen their learning through engagement with a substantial independent project.
Teaching methods may include lectures, tutorials, workshops sessions, and laboratory classes.
The aim of this module is to introduce students to modern Building Automation Systems.
In particular, Heat, Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC) systems will be presented as a crucial element of a BAS.
The topic will be discussed considering energy efficiency as a key requirement and will be presented by means of wide range of real scenarios and case studies.
These may include time constrained assessments (TCAs), written examinations, coursework assignments, laboratory reports, technical reports, technical notes, dissertations, portfolios, computer-based tests and assessed simulations, and demonstrations of prototypes and exhibitions.
This course aims to produce industry-ready graduates able to make an immediate impact in the workplace.
Lincoln Engineering graduates have progressed into a variety of engineering careers around the world at companies including Siemens Energy and Rolls-Royce.
BTEC Extended Diploma in Engineering: DMM
T Level in Engineering: Merit Overall

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/medmedub:
P301
Media Production at Lincoln is focused on the creative foundations and technical skills needed to thrive as a professional in a rapidly changing media landscape.
The course is designed to empower our students to become imaginative, creative, and culturally aware twenty-first century media practitioners with a thorough understanding of the creative industries and with the intellectual ability to analyse and challenge media conventions.
Lincoln's industry-focused course offers students a comprehensive experience across the many platforms of today's creative sector.
This includes TV and screen, design and new emergent media, radio, and sound.
Students can find their creative voice and develop a set of specialist skills, taught by experienced industry and research-active tutors.
Students can gain hands-on experience through innovative project briefs, expert teaching and a wide range of high-end facilities.
Practical and theoretical aspects of the subject are woven together to inform understanding of media production.
Practice modules explore technique and craft in a multitude of areas.
These include film production, digital media and innovative design, sound, multi-camera studio production, image creation, social media outputs, podcasting, games, script, and screenwriting, as well as rapidly developing emergent forms of media such as augmented and virtual reality.
Lincoln graduates have gone on to work on blockbuster films and TV shows
Access to specialist, industry-standard facilities
Get involved with real-world projects outside of the course
Opportunities to take part in overseas exchange programmes
Gain experience on the University's digital audio platform
Learn from staff with industry experience
The programme begins with a focus on the generation of creative ideas across various platforms.
It introduces media fundamentals and creative workflows.
Students are able to practise these skills by creating their own content and can go on to specialise in the media that most suits their personal interests and career aspirations.
The course is designed to give you a thorough understanding of the exciting media landscape and allow you to curate your career as a multi-skilled creative media practitioner.
In your first year, you can work and collaborate across a range of production areas such as film, video, audio, design, digital skills, and storytelling through scripts to enable you to gain a broad experience and to help you find your voice.
In your second year, you can start to study topics of personal interests through a range of optional modules.
By year three, you'll be shaping and polishing these skills with some substantial project-based modules designed to put your abilities into a professional working context.
Practical and theoretical aspects of the subject are woven together to create an informative approach to media production.
Practice modules explore technique and craft in a multitude of areas, such as film production, digital media design, sound, multi-camera studio, image creation, social media outputs, podcasting, games, script and screenwriting, as well as rapidly developing emergent forms of media such as augmented and virtual reality.
Critical studies modules present new and established media theories.
We are constantly evolving our Media Production programme to take into account the latest developments in the creative economy, technology, and creative thinking.
Lecturers include experienced specialists in their chosen fields, from those with diverse research-based interests and expertise, to award-winning industry professionals.
Lincoln School of Film, Media and Journalism has a range of online resources and discussion groups where students can share ideas and network.
A rolling programme of visiting lectures from industry professionals and creative academics enhances the core curriculum.
Students are encouraged to watch and listen to a range of broadcast outputs on terrestrial television and other online providers to ensure they are fluent in a range of genres and media.
This practice-based module aims to develop introductory levels of expertise in digital media production and innovative design practices via a series of short and intensive assignments that encourage exploratory and creative practice.
The module is designed to provide a platform for students to work with techniques and processes that will meet a brief and also establish transferable skills that can be utilised across all media pathways.
This module will form a basis for continued study and exploration in the second year, by defining the practice pathway and establishing a studio-based, collaborative philosophy to support creative problem-solving and professional practice.
This module introduces students to the conventions of the broadcast media world, specifically live television and radio production, before looking at ways to extend and augment these long-standing platforms with new and emerging media outputs, such as visual radio, online/mobile content, and podcasting.
The module aims to foster a creative approach to content creation, exploring a wide range of ways to communicate information to an audience.
The topic driven nature of this module also allows for exploration of representation and identity within the themes.
This module introduces students to fundamental critical, reflective, and practical skills required to adapt to both studying at university and to thrive on the programme.
The module will provide a framework for students to research, produce, and critique and reflect on more complex written and practical work in future modules.
This module aims to bridge the divide between theory and practice by positioning research-informed media production as a mode of critical inquiry.
Students will be encouraged to engage with contemporary issues in society, orienting their critical and creative practice around a shared theme, event, or provocation.
Students will be encouraged to work collaboratively across a range of media, with the direction of their research and practice emerging in response to these themes.
Students can reflect on their experiences and shared knowledge of contemporary media, providing an opportunity to situate relevant scholarly debates in the development and conceptualisation of their media-art projects.
Core attributes in an effective media production professional are adaptability, autonomy, and knowledge sharing.
This module encourages the development and application of core personal project management skills and allows students to explore a suitable media production process or tool.
At the same time as demonstrating newly acquired knowledge in their chosen field, students can share their experience and knowledge with the wider media community via some form of public-facing dissemination or output.
This module gives you the opportunity to produce and present a radio production and gain a professional industry credit.
You can work  as part of a small collaborative team to pitch a programme commission for a nominated radio station/online radio platform.
As part of the module, you will be expected to research and specialise in one programme-making role where you will develop technical, creative, and production skills.
This module teaches students how to research, plan, and write an undergraduate dissertation.
Each session is dedicated to one stage of the planning, researching, and writing stage.
We will look at how to formulate a research question, and how to narrow it down to a suitable project; we will explore research methods, focusing on the function on methodology in the context of a research; then, we will concentrate on the structure of a dissertation, and the particular features of all of its components.
At the end of the module students will be aware of what is expected from their final dissertations, and will be equipped with the necessary tools to approach this task.
At the heart of all high-end media content creation, experimentation and problem-solving is a technical pipeline or workflow.
This module aims to develop students' understanding of technical workflows that will underpin content creation from this point onward.
This module allows students to experience, test, and experiment with various technical pipelines and methodologies to build a tool kit that they can utilise, develop, and expand upon throughout the rest of their degree work and beyond into their professional careers.
This module will enable students to experience and understand the practical, theoretical & technical skills of a visual effects pipeline.
Students will gain a broad understanding of the roles within the various VFX departments; pre-production, acquisition, DIT, Matchmove, Environments, Modelling, Lighting, and Compositing.
The Minnesota State University Moorhead USA Exchange Programme is an optional module.
As part of the three-year course, some students may study for the duration of the first term of the second year at Minnesota State University, Moorhead, USA.
During the term abroad, students share classes and modules with local students.
Not only can students live and socialise in another culture, providing opportunities to study their respective countries, they may also have an opportunity to examine US media industry practice through optional internships for exchange students.
The Moorhead-Fargo twin cities may also offer practical opportunities for students to engage with USA production companies including NBC, Fox, ABC, CBS, and Prairie Public TV, all of whom have local bases.
This module allows students to work in a creative team to develop, research and produce a media product or products of your choice: a self-devised Collaborative Media Project.
The choice is ultimately theirs.
Chiefly, their job is to use the wide and interdisciplinary nature of the course thus far, and their collective experiences and expertise, to create either singular larger or multiple smaller high production value artefacts to effectively achieve their goals and suit the varied aspirations of the individual members.
These projects that students create as a team can be narrative, factual, corporate or social impact in focus or a combination of all or more of these.
They can use any media forms and artefacts, providing they work together to effectively realise the agreed goals.
This module offers students the opportunity to use their skills to help a public, private or school community to solve a problem, fulfil a need or create educational materials.
Students will be introduced to the range of skills required when working with such an organisation.
They will work directly with the community, with the support of a tutor, to identify a specific need or problem.
Students will then use their skills to propose a creative project or educational materials as a solution, while also ensuring that they comply with the laws and regulations governing the community.
They will then mentor the community as it creates the project or materials.
Students will be encouraged to work collaboratively and to produce media for contemporary platforms.
This module is the culmination of the practice element of the undergraduate programme and prepares students for working in the media industries
Students will create a portfolio of work or a single project with the aim of showcasing their knowledge, skills and professionalism to future employers, clients or agencies.
Students will identify their own strengths, research target employers, clients or agencies, and produce audience-specific work, for example: a showreel, design portfolio, short film/video, website, etc.
Students may work collaboratively or individually.
The Media Independent Study dissertation is the culmination of students' undergraduate investigation into the structures and debates surrounding cultural production and takes the form of an extended essay, with a poster/online visual representation, to be presented to an audience, which summarises the study’s key debates and argument.
This module supports students with development of professional practice skills, including time management, negotiation, appropriate address, and application of creative skills in a real-world context, as they work to a client brief.
Students will use their specialist creative skills to work to a specific time-limited brief.
A range of commissions will be offered to students in a round of pitches early in the semester.
These might be current projects or previously commissioned briefs.
LSFM’s creative business, New Media Lincs, and tutors will support this process.
Examples of assessment methods that are used include submitting film projects or digital media artefacts, coursework, such as written assignments, reports or dissertations; practical exams, such as presentations, performances or observations.
Normally there are no formal timed examinations, though live assessments are sometimes conducted.
Students on this course have access to specialist facilities, professional-standard equipment and creative spaces to develop their skills in preparation for their future career.
We also have self-contained audio edit suites for group project work with iMac/Pro Tools systems running Ableton, Sibelius and Vienna Symphonic library.
The Parlour is a high-end finishing and grading suite and provides colour correction, creative compositing and image repair.
It is equipped with high-spec Mac Pros, high-grade monitors and tangent panel control surfaces.
Software includes Autodesk SMOKE, FLAME and DaVinci Resolve.
Two multi-track recording studios comprise control rooms and recording areas including live rooms, dead rooms and a drum isolation booth for music and drama production.
Equipment includes: Pro Tools, Audient ASP8024 mixing consoles (24 and 12 channels), UA Apollo and Antelope Orion AD/DA, Genelec 8030A & Mix Cube monitoring.
Real-Time 3D Tracking
Watch this short video that shows highlights from our Virtual Production session at the University of Lincoln.
This was an interactive session in which staff and students could learn more about real-time 3D tracking.
This shows the state-of-the-art facilities we offer here at the University of Lincoln and what is available for students to utilise if they choose to study here.
There is currently an opportunity to take part in exchange programmes with partner institutions, including in the USA.
If you spend less than ten weeks on campus as a result of this exchange then a Study Abroad Tuition Fee is payable to the University of Lincoln during this year for students joining in 2025/26 and beyond.
This course has a significant emphasis on collaboration and creative entrepreneurship, helping you to shape your own path as a media producer.
There are opportunities, through the Lincoln School of Film, Media and Journalism Academy and our social enterprise New Media Lincs, to get involved with real-world projects outside of the course.
This could range from collaborations within the College of Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities, international institutions, the bi-annual Frequency Festival, our annual showcase, joining our co_LAB innovation group, or working on paid professional commissions.
Students are encouraged to enter their work in local, national and international competitions and award schemes.
We have a history of success in the regional and national Royal Television Society Student film awards and for the last two years a selection of student and staff work has been showcased at Aesthetica Short Film Festival in York.
Our graduates have gone on to work in television and radio broadcasting, advertising and social media, filmmaking, visual effects, editing and post-production, photography, multi-media production, web design, and research.
Projects have involved James Bond and Jason Bourne films, as well as BAFTA award-winning TV programmes such as Wolf Hall, Blue Peter, Gogglebox, and Blue Planet II.
Media skills can prepare students to work in other areas, such as advertising, public relations, marketing, education, events management, and online publishing.
Graduates from the course live across the globe from the Antarctic to the US to the Pacific Islands, working in television and radio broadcasting, filmmaking, editing, photography, multi-media production, web-design and research.
Organisations our graduates are employed at include Sky, BBC News 24, Channel 4, Pinewood Studios, Microsoft, and Talkback.
Some have set up their own companies with the support of the University’s business incubation centre Sparkhouse.
Others, such as TomSka and Jack Howard, are popular on YouTube.
Many of our graduates keep in touch with us and take part in an annual alumni event where current students can meet with, and get advice from, past students.
Some also publish blogs, articles, and come in to lecture or teach on modules.
Emily and Finn share their positive experience studying BA (Hons) Media Production at the University of Lincoln.
Study Abroad
Opportunities within the EU
Students on this course will have the opportunity to study at a partner institution within Europe as part of this course.
Additional information, including costs relating to this opportunity, which is optional, can be found here: http://bit.ly/uolerasmus
The University of Lincoln is committed to continued participation in the Erasmus+ programme, however, participation in future years is dependent on the nature of the UK’s withdrawal from the European Union.
More information can be found at www.erasmusplus.org.uk/brexit-update.
Outside of Europe
You may also be able to apply to your Local Education Authority or the Student Awards Agency for Scotland for further funding to assist with travel expenses - contact them to enquire.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/mdsmdsub:
P300
BA (Hons) Media Studies enables students to explore the transformative role of 21st Century media in today's digital society, and develop critical and creative skills relevant to this new world.
Media studies has never been more relevant or stimulating.
Digital, networked media now form a ubiquitous and inextricable part of our everyday lives, holding an unprecedented power to drive opinions, debates, and movements.
We live, work, play, and communicate with each other in a world saturated by media.
This programme engages critically and speculatively with the full depth and breadth of 21st Century media.
This includes everyday devices like smartphones and computers (and the various platforms accessible by them, including social media and games), through to more traditional media such as film and television (and the ways in which they have been transformed by digital processes like streaming).
Today, these technologies are so entangled with our economic, social, cultural, psychological, technical, and environmental realms that basic skills now include not only reading, writing, and arithmetic, but also knowledge of, and competency in, media and communication.
The Lincoln School of Film, Media and Journalism is home to a creative community of ambitious students, experienced staff and researchers, and inspiring visiting speakers.
Specialist facilities and equipment for practical work
Learn from research-active, industry-engaged staff
Active research community
Free access to Adobe Creative Cloud software
A wide range of optional modules to shape your study
Media Studies at Lincoln blends the study of media theory with practical application.
It places an emphasis on critical thinking and creativity.
Teaching and learning activities can include written and audio-visual essays, contributions to group blogs, participation in student symposia, and a portfolio of practice-based work.
The first-year modules introduce seminal perspectives and new directions in media studies, where students can develop an understanding of the field's changing priorities and the new skills these advances demand.
This is taken further in the second year, with modules focusing on the themes of visuality and aesthetics, digital and auditory cultures, and the logics and practices of gaming.
In the third year, students are able to embark on a major independent research project.
They can develop a creative portfolio, and engage in advanced studies of the political and philosophical contexts of contemporary media.
At the end of this final year, all students across The Lincoln School of Film and Media can celebrate with a major degree show of their work.
Teaching and learning activities on this programme can include written and audiovisual essays, contributions to group blogs, participation in student symposia, screenings, reading groups, and a portfolio of practice-based work.
This module will introduce a range of core creative design and visual communication skills.
Students will be required to demonstrate an understanding of these core skills by producing a portfolio of work that engages with topical issues and debates in visual digital cultures.
In an era of democratized technology, distribution platforms and funding streams, contemporary media practitioners have opportunities to fund, produce and exhibit their work like no generation before them.
This power must, though, be employed creatively - technological devolution demands multi-skilled practitioners.
Accordingly, this module will introduce some core technical skills and practices that will enable students to engage creatively with the media culture of the 21st century.
Here, the emphasis will be on principles of cinematography, editing, and sound design.
Students will be required to demonstrate an understanding of these technical practices by producing a portfolio of work that responds to issues and debates surround contemporary media culture.
This module introduces students to a critical discussion of digital cultures and their social, political, historical, economic and material contexts.
Divided into four sections, this module will extend and deepen student’s understandings of the digital worlds they inhabit.
‘Digital (pre)histories’ introduces students to technical paradigms and technological developments that have been key to the formation of contemporary digital culture.
‘Digital materialities’ explores the material basis of our seemingly ‘immaterial’ digital worlds and its geo-political implications.
‘Digital politics and labour’ considers the role of the digital in the world of work, as well as the digital as work.
The final segment, ‘Digital identities and societies’ considers the way in which identity and social life are thought of with and through the digital.
This module provides students with an introduction to some of the major works in critical theory credited with influencing the development of Media Studies as a discipline.
In doing so, it supports students in developing academic skills in the close reading of primary sources and the writing of critical responses based on such readings – skills that will underpin student work throughout the BA Media Studies programme.
However, rather than cleave entirely to a familiar canon, this module begins to problematize the accepted boundaries of what constitutes ‘media’ and remains reflexive in its engagement with established theories, concepts and debates.
Students will explore the radical and experimental traditions of Media Studies in order to begin to map links between such energies and the media culture of the present.
Set in the context of a recurrent tension between ‘old’ and ‘new’ in digital culture, this module begins with the question of the digital, rather than approaching it in accordance with a familiar historical narrative.
Here, students will develop the skills and methods introduced in Media Reading Group: 1, engaging in close reading and discussion of selected texts deemed to have made significant contribution to Media Studies in the 21st century.
Students will be asked to consider what particular critical insight these texts might offer to our present circumstances, and how the theories, concepts and debates raised by these works might respond to the radical and experimental energies of the discipline.
The convergence of traditional media processes, coupled with the ubiquity of mobile and networked technology, has brought forth a dynamic participatory culture that blurs established distinctions between production and consumption.
Building on the experience of Contemporary Media Practice 1 and 2, in this module students will explore how these emerging forms of media practice can respond to some of the key critical debates in digital culture.
Specifically, the module will see students working both individually and in partnership with others on a series of trans-media projects that in some way address key social, political and cultural concerns of the 21st century.
Play is a ubiquitous activity, and games (in all their forms) have a long history and an influence that stretches beyond the game-space itself.
In recent times, computers (and other trends within media and society) have lead to an exponential growth in the cultural, social and commercial importance of games, which have likewise become more sophisticated, becoming an important media form which has affected other media and culture generally.
This critical studies theory module will aim to consider, evaluate and analyse the phenomena of games and game cultures in the 21st century.
This module explores the relationship between technologies, bodies, and identities in contemporary digital societies.
Based on an understanding of the body as a site of power and resistance, it is concerned with the intersection of class, race, and gender, as affective and political experiences that contribute to the formation and negotiation of identities.
Away from a simplistic notion of the body as a "natural given", we think through the body to challenge our understanding of culture and to access a series of key debates in media studies.
This module seeks to interrogate the embodied and affective relationships that we have with and through new technologies, and to highlight their political and economic implications.
Building on the skills introduced in Contemporary Media Practice 1 and 2, in this module, students will experiment with emerging forms of media practice in response to some of the key critical debates in digital culture.
Throughout the module students will work both individually and in partnership with others on a series of digital media projects that address the key social, political, and cultural concerns of the 21st Century.
In this module students will explore the development of music and audio culture through an eclectic range of case studies illustrating how situating music within diverse cultural contexts provides a broad and nuanced understanding of the role music plays in the lives of individuals, the formation of communities, and the influence on global culture.
Through analytical and critical approaches, such as musicology, ethnography, socio-history, and psychology, the module aims to deepen students' comprehension of the myriad ways in which music can be studied, analysed, and comprehended.
This module addresses the inherent promise and challenge of designing for digital contexts and concerns (in all their social, economic, and cultural complexity).
Rather than prescribing particular areas of study, students will be encouraged to take ownership of their creative practice by determining their own themes.
The module reinforces a research-engaged ethos to help inform the conceptual development of student projects, culminating in a substantial body of work completed to a professional standard.
Philosophical approaches have begun to contribute to the transformation of Media Studies.
In this, we are not dealing simply with the crystallization and institution of a specialist philosophy of media, but rather the bringing together of the two disciplines into a mutually reinvigorating speculative encounter which allows a more expansive, more inclusive and more adventurous rethinking of both.
This module, reflecting on the various ‘turns’ in theory in recent years – vital, affective, material, speculative, nonhuman - provides an opportunity to explore concepts and ideas which have emerged from within the ferment of this encounter from a range of exciting thinkers and theoretical perspectives.
The dissertation is the culmination of each student’s undergraduate investigation into the theories and debates surrounding practices of contemporary mediation.
It takes the form of an extended essay.
Is the founding principle of the internet freedom, as so many once thought, or is it, in fact, control?
This module looks at the politics of digital culture and the new capitalism of networked information technologies.
Power, it can be argued, has increasingly come to lie in code, in protocols and algorithm.
A new logic of control, simultaneously operating in both centralized and dispersed modes, has replaced hierarchical systems of power.
What are the implications of networks as the core organizational structure for contemporary media, culture and life?
This is an ecologically minded module, one that explores media and mediation in the context of contemporary environmental concerns.
It foregrounds a variety of geo-centred attempts to rethink the materiality of media and emphasizes the radical consequences of such endeavours.
Working collaboratively to produce audiovisual essays, students will explore how the material reality of mediation exposes us to spaces and times beyond human perception.
Students on this course are assessed through written and audiovisual essays, dissertation, reports, reflexive journal, lecture diary, creative production, presentations, critical evaluations, and blogs.
Critical studies are supported by the extensive print and online resources available at the University’s Great Central Warehouse Library.
For practical work students have the opportunity to make use of the School's industry-standard facilities, such as television and radio studios, video editing suites, audio editing suites, a sound dubbing theatre, green screen room, writers’ room, colour finishing facilities, and a photography studio.
Media Studies at Lincoln offers a crucial perspective on media in the 21st Century.
It allows you to be creative in your critical thinking, with a nice balance of theoretical and practical work.
The modules really feel linked together with a clear progression throughout the 3 years.
I absolutely loved all three years!
Ashley Lilley
BA (Hons) Media Studies
Academic staff within the School are current media practitioners and many are engaged with professional bodies such as the Royal Television Society; the British Society of Cinematographers; and the British Association of Film, Television and Screen Studies.
Honorary Doctorates include the digital social entrepreneur Tom Roope.
Media Studies students currently have free access to Adobe Creative Cloud software for the duration of their studies via our media and design labs.
There are often opportunities for Media Studies students to collaborate with industry partners or work on live client briefs, either as part of their studies or by participating in extra-curricular projects.
Students are supported in gaining valuable work experience alongside their studies by promoting internships, paid freelance opportunities, industry talks, presentations, and workshops from our visiting lecturers.
We also hosts an annual 'Industry Week', designed to support professional practices across all our courses.
The Lincoln School of Film, Media and Journalism is home to a number of research projects that investigate, explore, and experiment with media as a fundamental means of expression and communication for different groups within society.
Researchers within the School conduct internationally-recognised research in a variety of topics.
These include visual and digital culture, sonic studies, and media philosophy.
The co_LAB group, which coordinates the creative practice component of the course, is involved in ongoing collaboration with partners in various European universities.
Opportunities for graduates may include creative or management roles in broadcasting and other media industries, social media management, media journalism, publishing, and education.
Others may choose to continue their studies at postgraduate level.
We do not specify A level subjects but seek evidence of media-related critical awareness and/or creativity such as qualifications in Media, English, Sociology, Philosophy, Politics, Film Studies, Art, Design, or Theatre Studies.
We particularly value personal statements that demonstrate relevant experience, a broad range of interests and a real passion for thinking critically about media in the 21st Century.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/mfymfyub:
Clearing offers from 32 UCAS tariff points.
The Media and Communication Foundation Year at the University of Lincoln is the introductory year of a four-year degree programme that prepares students for careers in the creative and communication industries.
It supports entry into courses such as Creative Advertising, Film Production, Journalism, Media Production, and Media and Communication.
This year-long programme offers a dynamic curriculum blending practical workshops, academic research, and theoretical learning.
It is particularly suited for students who are undecided about their specialism, returning to education, new to media studies, or those who have not met traditional entry requirements.
It creates a supportive environment aimed at building student confidence while developing core academic and creative competencies.
The Foundation Year acts as an alternative route into undergraduate study within the College of Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities.
Upon successful completion, students progress to Level 4 of designated BA (Hons) degree programmes, including Journalism, Sports Journalism, Film Production, Media and Communications (subject to validation), and Media Production.
Those who choose not to continue receive a Foundation Year Certificate.
Emphasising practical skill-building in digital media and communication, the programme develops expertise in web design and deployment, audio and video production, and written and visual content creation.
These skills are contextualised within contemporary media's role in society, giving students a broad and relevant foundation for future study or work in the sector.
The Media and Communications Foundation Year at the University of Lincoln equips students with essential knowledge, practical skills, and academic confidence for progression into degree-level study.
Aligned with the university's Student as Producer ethos, the programme emphasises student-led learning through research, enquiry, and collaborative knowledge creation.
Divided into three progressive stages, the curriculum scaffolds students' development, gradually integrating them into their chosen disciplines via lectures, workshops, and close collaboration with specialist staff.
Students undertake varied briefs and projects, building portfolios that reflect personal interests while cultivating independence, creativity, and problem-solving skills.
Teaching is heavily workshop-based, supported by seminars and lectures introducing key theories, alongside access to digital tools like Adobe Creative Cloud and Blackboard.
Diversity, inclusion, and student voice are central, with elected representatives and strong support networks.
The programme also fosters employability and enterprise through real-world projects and marketing collaborations.
Academic support includes personal tutoring, subject-specific guidance, and tailored library resources to support academic transition and success.
Assessment within the Media and Communications Foundation Year is designed to evaluate students' achievement of learning outcomes while providing constructive feedback to enhance skills, knowledge, and creative practice.
A range of assessment methods supports the development of diverse academic and professional capabilities aligned with degree progression and career pathways.
Most modules are assessed through course-work portfolios, which may include digital assets, written work, and reflective commentary.
Students receive formative feedback during tutorials, presentations, or on draft submissions to guide improvement.
Summative assessments occur at key stages, with formal grading based on clear learning outcomes and criteria outlined in module briefs.
Assessment formats include written evaluations, academic essays, and presentations, encouraging students to communicate ideas clearly and professionally.
Group projects promote collaboration and are mainly formatively assessed, although reflections and individual contributions may be evaluated within portfolios.
Timely feedback-both written and verbal-ensures students can apply insights to future work, supporting their transition into degree-level study.
64 UCAS tariff points from 2 A Levels at grade C or above or equivalent qualification.
T Level: Pass (D or E on the Core)
BTEC Extended Diploma: MPP
3 GCSEs  required at grade 4 (C) or above including English.
Typical careers in media and communications span a wide range of dynamic and evolving roles across industries.
Graduates may pursue careers in journalism, broad-casting, digital marketing, public relations, content creation, and media production, working for media outlets, agencies, or as freelancers.
Roles such as social media manager, video editor, copywriter, podcast producer, or communication officer are common pathways, requiring a mix of creative, technical, and strategic skills.
The industry also offers opportunities in film and television production, advertising, corporate communications, and emerging areas like influencer marketing and data-driven storytelling.
As digital platforms continue to grow, professionals in this field must adapt to technological changes and audience behaviours, making flexibility, innovation, and strong communication abilities essential for success.
In the majority of currently existing programmes in media and communication, there is an emphasis on studio – particularly broadcast – work for engagement in TV, film and post-production areas.
While these will form part of the Foundation Year at Lincoln, the core offering will be digital, in particular preparing students for a work-place in which generative AI has a significant role to play, providing them with fundamental tools to bring discernment and judgement to the practical deployment of such tools.
During their year, students will create a multi-platform digital site, spanning web, social media and other formats such as video and podcasting.
Alongside this, writing and verbal communication will be a fundamental part of their activity, both in terms of generating their own original content and ideas and also, via regular pitching and presentation, in preparing them to work in established and emerging jobs such as brand journalism, digital content creation and marketing, broadcasting and podcasting, and public relations.
In all areas, they will be using industry-standard tools as well as new applications in generative AI to help them produce work suitable to a professional standard.
Through an exploration of core elements of communications theory, students on this course will also have a greater appreciation of how to engage with their audiences, both in terms of appropriate written, verbal and visual language, and through using the best platforms to achieve their aims.
In addition, the course will build on Lincoln’s Skills for Life, with key outcomes that help to pro-mote creativity, social responsibility, self-awareness and wellbeing, and a global mindset.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/mdcmgyub:
6 years (1 year foundation)
A106
The Medicine MBChB (with Gateway Year) is designed to widen access to medicine study.
On successful completion students will automatically progress to the Medicine MBChB.
The programme aims to develop students into practising medical doctors.
Upon graduation, students will be eligible to register provisionally with the General Medical Council (GMC) and begin work as a doctor within the UK Foundation Programme (subject to successful application to the UK Foundation Programme Office).
Alongside traditional medical training, the programme will also encourage students to develop wider skills in research, leadership, and an understanding of public health in a rural and coastal context.
We aim to ensure that our doctors learn from experience and the course offers a varied placement experience, providing the opportunity to gain hands-on clinical experience through excellent links with local Lincolnshire NHS trusts and placements across primary and community care.
Placements will also include non-traditional community settings, such as care homes, health charities, and social prescribing settings.
This programme is subject to approval by the UK General Medical Council.
The University of Nottingham is the contingency School as part of this process.
Medicine at Lincoln Medical School is undergoing accreditation by the General Medical Council (GMC).
The GMC will make a final decision relating to the University of Lincoln being added to the list of approved providers in the final year of the course.
Should the approval not be received, students will graduate with a University of Nottingham BMBS degree, which entitles graduates to provisionally register with the GMC and apply to the UK Foundation Programme.
Gain hands-on clinical experience
Placements across Lincolnshire
Learn in custom-built specialist facilities
Case-based learning which makes use of real patient scenarios
Underpinned by key themes in modern healthcare
Links with the NHS and healthcare providers
In the first two years of the main programme following the Gateway,  most learning will be campus-based, with some early clinical experience visits and teaching in clinical and communication skills.
During years three to five, the majority of learning will be through placements with local healthcare providers, but with regular campus-based teaching to deliver theoretical elements of the course.
During the final year of study, students will undertake their final assessments (including the UK Medical Licensing Assessment) and prepare to take up the role of a Foundation Year One resident doctor in the UK, gaining provisional registration and a licence to practise medicine from the GMC.
A comprehensive programme of clinical communication and examination skills will also be a strong feature of the programme.
Students will build upon early development of these competencies as they work towards the completion of the degree.
Students' skills in life support will be developed and assessed in a skills lab during each year of the programme, with increasing complexity throughout the course.
Several themes lie at the heart of the programme, including clinical and communication skills; clinical reasoning; health equity; health education; public health; medical and healthcare leadership; medical ethics and law; and research and quality improvement.
The Gateway Year of the programme aims to develop the foundational knowledge, skills, and behavioural attributes needed for later stages of the programme.
The delivery of content will take place across the year and will be assessed in three modules: Gateway Knowledge, Gateway Skills, and Gateway Values and Behaviour.
The curriculum will follow a theme/system-based learning approach organised into blocks of teaching across the two semesters.
Teaching will consist of one-two weeks of induction activities, then one-two week long themes based around different body systems.
These systems will include all of those covered in the first year of the full medicine programme.
From year one of the full programme, course content will be delivered and assessed in three common modules: Professional Knowledge, Professional Skills, and Professional Values and Behaviour .
Year one of the programme will aim to provide students with foundational knowledge, skills, and behavioural attributes for later stages of the programme.
Semester A may consist of one or two weeks of induction activities, four weeks of 'foundational' cases, and six weeks of cases designed to allow students to learn about the normal function and most common disease presentations in the cardiovascular and respiratory systems.
Semester B will consist of cases designed to allow students to learn about the normal function and most common disease presentations in the gastrointestinal system and reproductive and endocrine systems.
Year two of the programme will aim to develop further knowledge, skills, and behavioural attributes for later stages of the programme.
Semester A will consist of cases designed to allow students to learn about the normal function and most common disease presentations in the renal/urinary system (including fluid and electrolyte balance and metabolic control), the central nervous system and head and neck (to include some ENT content).
Semester B will consist of cases designed to allow students to learn about the normal function and most common disease presentations in the musculoskeletal system, and will conclude with cases with a focus on multimorbidity, frailty, and end-of-life considerations.
Cross-system subjects such as cancer, imaging, dermatology and mental health will be interspersed across this phase, with appropriate reference to these in the clinical case scenarios.
In year three of the programme, students will make the transition from a largely university-based learning experience to a largely clinically-based learning experience, although regular central teaching days on campus will take place during years three to five.
Students will undertake three 10-week clinical placements in medicine, surgery, and primary and community care.
Students will take these 10-week blocks in rotation before the knowledge and skills exams for this year.
After the summative exam, students will then undertake a four-week Student Selected Component (SSC) and a four-week Integrated Clinical Experience (ICE) placement.
During the ICE placement, students will be embedded within a clinical team and will start to apply their knowledge and skills gained within the first three placements of the year.
The ICE placement will provide additional opportunities for students to learn from and about other healthcare professionals within multidisciplinary teams and to work with more senior students in the clinical environment.
During year four of the programme, students will have made a successful transition to clinically-based learning.
Students will undertake four seven-week clinical placements in child health, women's health, mental health and long-term conditions.
Students will be randomised to undertake each of these seven-week blocks in rotation before the knowledge and skills exam for this year.
After the summative exam, students will then undertake two four-week Student Selected Components (SSCs).
One of these SSCs must be a clinical SSC.
In the final year of the programme, students are expected to develop from proto-professionals to become the doctors of the future.
Students will undertake three six-week clinical placements in acute medicine, surgery and perioperative medicine, and primary care.
Students will be randomised to undertake each of these six-week blocks in rotation before the knowledge and skills exams for this year.
After the summative exams, students will then undertake two six-week rotations (an elective and an assistantship).
Students can benefit from established links with the NHS and healthcare sites across Lincolnshire.
Students have the opportunity to interact with patients from the first year, through regular visits to general practices and hospitals.
Students will also have the opportunity to ask scientists and qualified doctors details of clinical outcomes, and hear more about their working environment.
Currently placements include the following hospitals: Lincoln County Hospital, Lincoln,Grantham and District Hospital, Grantham, and Pilgrim Hospital, Boston.
Lincoln Medical School was established in 2018 with the specific aim of improving the recruitment and retention of doctors to Lincolnshire.
Our first students started their studies in September 2019, and the University of Lincoln is now working towards providing medical courses independently from the University of Nottingham.
In years one and two of the main programme, assessment will include written assignments, skills sign-offs and integrated structured clinical exams (ISCEs), multiple-choice exams, and a range of methods to assess professional attitudes and behaviours, such as portfolio work and assessment of engagement and conscientiousness.
In years three to five, assessments will test students' professional knowledge through Applied Knowledge Tests (culminating in the Medical Licensing Assessment Applied Knowledge Test), their professional skills through workplace-based assessments and ISCEs (culminating in the Medical Licensing Assessment Clinical and Professional Skills Assessment), and their professional values and behaviour through a range of methods including portfolio work and engagement with placement activities.
The purpose-built Ross Lucas Medical Sciences Building comprises lecture theatres, laboratories, a clinical skills suite with consultation rooms, a prosection anatomy suite, and a bio-medical and health sciences library.
It is the most sustainable building on the University Estate and features both solar panels and a living wall.
This course is only open to students who are living in the UK and have UK home status, indefinite leave to remain, or refugee status (with a letter from the home office as evidence) at the time you make your application.
Additional criteria must also be met:
- Applicants must meet one of the University of Lincoln's contextual requirements.
- Applicants must not have already studied a Higher Education programme.
Transfers onto this programme are not permitted.
GCE Advanced Levels: BBB.
We do not use predicted A Level grades and do not score A Levels, AS levels, or equivalent as part of our selection process.
However, any offers made will be conditional on meeting the A Level grades or equivalent required.
A Level Offer: BBB, which must include a B in Biology (or Human Biology).
We will not accept citizenship studies, critical thinking, general studies, or global perspectives.
A Level resits are permitted.
Resits must achieve BBB and must include Biology.
Resits are usually expected to have been completed within two years of the initial sit.
GCSEs: At least five GCSEs at Grade 6 (or equivalent where A*-C grades are awarded) to include Biology and Chemistry or Double Science, Mathematics, and English Language.
GCSE resits are permitted but must be awarded by the time of application.
UCAT: All applicants must sit the UCAT in the same year as the application is made for the course.
Applicants who achieve a UCAT SJT grade of Band 4 will not be considered for this course.
We do not publish our UCAT cut off scores to applicants.
For more information about the UCAT, please visit: https://www.ucat.ac.uk/ .
30 points overall or 5,5,5 with Higher Level Biology grade 5.
At least five grade Bs in IB Middle Years or GCSE to include Biology, Chemistry, English Language, and Maths at grade 5 (B).
Grades of B in Biology at Advanced Highers, and:
If you would like more information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are studying are acceptable, please contact our enquiries team at enquiries@lincoln.ac.uk or call +44 (0)1522 886644 .
Minimum of Grade 6 (B) GCSE English Language.
Full English Language requirements for the Medicine programme can be found at on our English Language requirements page .
Interviews for the MBChB Medicine with Gateway Year programme will be in the format of Multiple Mini Interviews (MMIs).
These will take place in person on campus at the University of Lincoln.
All successful applicants will be required to interview.
Interviews are offered to candidate based on scores as calculated by our selection process.
There is no set threshold for interview, and this varies year by year.
By awarding a medical degree (subject to GMC approval), the University is confirming that a graduate is fit to practise to the high standards laid down by the General Medical Council (GMC) in its guidance: Achieving good medical practice: guidance for medical students (2016) and Good Medical Practice (2024) .
It is therefore important that those applicants who may have fitness to practise issues, criminal or health related, disclose this information to the Lead for Admissions as soon as possible.
All offers are subject to satisfactory occupational health clearance.
Applicants who accept our offer as their firm choice will be asked to complete and return the relevant required information to our occupational health provider by a deadline to ensure they are deemed as fit to study by the course start date.
It is the applicant’s responsibility to ensure that they complete the occupational health process to be cleared as fit to study before enrolling on the Medicine course.
All Occupational Health checks must be completed satisfactorily in order for an applicant to enrol as a student on the Medicine course.
We welcome applications from all students with disabilities or any ongoing physical, mental health, or educational needs.
Applicants with a disability, special needs, or medical conditions are encouraged to notify the Lead for Admissions so that appropriate adjustments can be made, for example, during interview.
Firm and insurance offer holders may be asked to provide additional information relating to a disability, special needs requirements, or chronic medical conditions indicated on an application, which will be considered by the Lead for Admissions and the Director of Student Support.
All firm offer holders will be assessed by the University of Lincoln Occupational Health provider to ensure applicants are fit to train and that appropriate support is available throughout the course as outlined in GMC guidance Welcomed and Valued (2019) .
A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found below.
The full-time tuition fees displayed above are for each year (level) of the course.
†Please note that not all courses are available as a part-time option.
* UK: The University undergraduate tuition fee may increase year on year in line with government policy.
This will enable us to continue to provide the best possible educational facilities and student experience.
** International: The fees quoted are for one year of study.
For continuing students fees are subject to an increase of 2% each year and rounded to the nearest £100.
Tuition fees for additional activity are payable by the student/sponsor and charged at the equivalent £ per credit point rate for each module.
Additional activity includes:
Exceptionally, tuition fees may not be payable where a student has been granted a retake with approved extenuating circumstances.
At the end of this course successful students will receive their MBChB degree, which is a primary medical qualification (PMQ).
Holding a PMQ entitles students to provisional registration with the General Medical Council, subject only to its acceptance that there are no Fitness to Practise concerns that need consideration.
Graduates are required to undergo a further two years of foundation doctor training.
Full registration is granted by the GMC at the end of the first year of this training.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/midmidub:
156 weeks
B720
Midwives offer specialist support to mothers from the antenatal to the postnatal period, and work with a range of healthcare professionals to promote the best interests of a mother and her baby.
Underpinned by national policy, our midwifery degree focuses on women-centred holistic care, combining theory with practical placements.
Successful graduates will be eligible to register as a midwife with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC).
Students will have the unique opportunity to be Newborn and Infant Physical (NIPE ) examination-ready at the point of qualifying.
Newly qualified Midwives at the point of qualifying should meet with and discuss this qualification with the Practice Development Midwives/Education team to determine how their employer will support them in their transition from student to practicing as a NIPE midwife.
Course underpinned by national policy
Become Newborn and Infant Physical (NIPE) examination-ready upon qualificatio
Access to specialist clinical suites which simulate hospital and home environ
Experience a wide range of practice placements
Register on completion as a midwife with the NMC
The course has been structured to encourage students to think critically and apply evidence to support their clinical practice.
It is designed to meet NMC education requirements for student midwives, and is informed by national policy.
The programme is both theory and practice based.
There are opportunities to experience a wide range of practice placements, ranging from the antenatal to the postnatal period, incorporating intrapartum care and covering the whole childbearing continuum, encompassing midwifery and consultant-led care.
It examines a wide variety of physical, social, and psychological needs, equipping students with the knowledge to support women and birthing people during their transition into parenthood.
Students are able to undertake clinical practice within a non-midwifery setting, including in a medical, neonatal unit, and within a hospital gynaecology ward.
Throughout the course, students can learn about how to ensure women and birthing people are able to make informed choices and remain at the centre of the decision-making process.
Sessions can include lectures, seminars, enquiry-based learning, self-directed study, and simulation.
Throughout their studies, students can be supported by academics, and practice educators.
In this module you will learn body systems as applied to specific cases within midwifery practice.
This will include the anatomy and physiology as well as the psychological and sociological aspects  and theories associated with that case.
The diversity of these cases will assist you in understanding and appreciating the knowledge base underpinning the care you provide.
This module will help you to develop your skills and prepare you for your first placement.
This module will develop your knowledge and understanding of maternity care provision during the childbearing continuum.
This will focus upon individualised holistic care focusing on choice and decision making, and working in partnership with women and their families.
The module will introduce the concept of evidence-based practice and the knowledge required to effectively facilitate the physiology of childbirth and the newborn.
These will include the psychological, social, emotional and spiritual factors that may positively or adversely affect the childbearing continuum.
This module will require you to draw on your learning from the other modules in year one of your programme to begin to demonstrate your understanding of midwifery practice.
These will include anatomy and physiology, and your development of midwifery care for women and their families.
This module will include your preparation for practice, including the completion of mandatory skills required for you to practice safely.
The placement attached to this module will give you the opportunity to develop skills surrounding the care of women/birthing people and their families.
With high levels of direction and supervision from your practice supervisor and the practice team, you will engage in delivering midwifery care throughout the childbearing continuum.
You will start to implement care by involving women in decision making and by starting to take responsibility for yourself and your role within the interprofessional team.
This module is linked to the requirements of the Nursing and Midwifery Council’s (NMC) The Code (2018) – ‘Professional standards of practice and behaviour for nurses and midwives’.
The year 1 placements will give you the opportunity to develop skills surrounding the care of women/birthing people and their families.
This module is linked to the requirements of the Nursing and Midwifery Council’s (NMC) The Code (2018) – ‘Professional standards of practice and behaviour for nurses, midwives and nursing associates’.
As a health professional you will be working with a wide range of different people; including other professionals, colleagues, families, carers and the general public.
Your accountability as a practicing midwife on registration is underpinned by the NMC Code and the professional standards of proficiency for midwives.
This module will support your development of knowledge and skills in order for you to fulfill your role in practice both as a student midwife and on registration with the NMC.
Cohesive interprofessional teamworking is also essential to facilitate successful and integrated healthcare services.
Interprofessional teamwork is the means by which different healthcare professionals bring together their diverse knowledge, skills and talents to collaborate and achieve a common goal.
Students will explore the law in the context of professional practice, including but not limited to the complexities of informed consent; support and advocacy for women and their families; providing care within the NMC Code (2018) and the importance of providing culturally sensitive individualised care in a diverse community.
There is a requirement for student midwives to complete a numeracy assessment as part of their pre-registration programme.
This module will build on other aspects of the year 1 programme related to numeracy, for example medicines management, and prepare you for your numeracy assessment.
This practice module links to theory modules; Safe and Effective Midwifery Care, The Midwife as a Scholar and Public Health and Global Midwifery.
This module module will enable you to continue to develop your knowledge and skills for midwifery practice .
You will be required to continue to complete your Midwifery Ongoing Record of Achievement (MORA) by working in partnership with women/birthing people and families to achieve individualised compassionate care across the whole childbearing continuum.
This module will enable you to continue to develop your knowledge and skills for midwifery practice .
This module will enable you to explore midwifery care from a global perspective, encompassing health promotion pre-conceptually and throughout the antenatal and postnatal period.
The social and psychosocial determinants of health will be examined, recognising diversity and cultural considerations within health care.
You will discuss life-style choices, disability, equality and perinatal mental health and further extend your understanding of values, ethics and the law.
Throughout the module you will have the opportunity to explore a wide range of different medical conditions, their impact on a pregnancy and the impact of a pregnancy on the condition will be discussed in relation to health promotion.
This module will explore the identification and appropriate management of obstetric complications of childbirth, including care of the critically ill woman.
You will learn how to prioritise care and make appropriate decisions within your scope of practice as a part of the interprofessional team.
You will have the opportunity to develop your skills via real time simulation within a theoretical environment and gain confidence and competence in aspects of complex cases.
Literature and national reporting systems will be explored to underpin decision making and management to ensure care is of a high standard in line with national guidance
This module enables you to explore research in the context of midwifery practice.
You will develop your understanding of the importance of evidence based practice and how it impacts on the delivery of midwifery services.
Through your studies you will learn how to locate and critically appraise evidence, obtain an overview of different research methodologies and learn how to analyse and apply evidence and data.
Ethical issues in research and the implications of planning service change will be explored.
In this module you will learn the skills required to carry out a safe and accurate assessment of a newborn child whilst taking account of the needs of the parent.
Through your reading and your practice, you will develop the skills to undertake a comprehensive health and social history, understand the role of the midwife in the examination of the newborn, and understand the importance of making appropriate referrals.
You will learn the importance of interprofessional and multiprofessional working.
You will also learn how to provide sensitive support in the case of bereavement.
Throughout the module you will underpin your learning with best evidence, and you will at all times consider the psychological, social, emotional and spiritual factors behind the examination of the newborn.
This module is a continuation of Facilitating Care of the Newborn allowing students time to complete their NIPE proficiencies.
Examining referrals and multi professional working as well as supporting women and families.
Students will have the opportunity to discuss and implement care pathways in relation to newborn screening and health and continue to develop their communication skills within clinical practice.
In this, one of the final modules of your programme, you will further develop the skills and knowledge to evaluate the care you and others have provided.
This will help you to become an autonomous and self-directed practitioner with skills and knowledge that is informed by best evidence.
You will further develop your critical thinking and analytical skills to engage with best evidence in order to tackle and solve problems in clinical practice requiring sound judgement, personal responsibility and initiative in complex professional environments.
Leadership of self and others are fundamental aspects of the Registered Midwife’s role.
You will build on what you have learnt throughout the programme and this module will help you to explore aspects of leadership and management of self and others in midwifery practice.
It will also help you to look at the skills for facilitating learning in practice to allow you to supervise others.
You will explore management and leadership theories and how human factors can influence and impact upon organisational culture, service delivery and care quality.
You will further develop your knowledge of how to function effectively as a member of a team, motivating and supporting your colleagues.
Collectively we will explore critical and constructive reflection as a registered Midwife preparing your for lifelong personal and professional development.
This will include coaching and supervision skills and techniques to support and facilitate the development of others.
This module is about leadership and change in relation to service development with the aim of transforming midwifery services for the improvement of midwifery practice.
This module will help you to understand the crucial aspects of midwifery service delivery including workforce, resource allocation and quality.
You will be given the opportunity to critically apprise an aspect of service delivery and using best evidence and appropriate transformation methodologies, propose changes to an aspect of provision to improve the experience of those accessing the service.
This course is validated by the Nursing and Midwifery Council who promote high education and professional standards for nurses and midwives across the UK.
The assessment methods selected for each module within the programme are designed to help you to integrate theory and practice, maximising your critical-thinking and analytical skills in order to develop a deeper understanding of your role as a midwife through reflection.
In order to demonstrate competence and achieve the required NMC proficiencies, you will be assessed within both a theoretical and practical setting.
I chose Lincoln because of the fantastic facilities they have, the individualised support they offer, and the family feel on campus.
Kayleigh Thorne
BSc (Hons) Midwifery
On this course, you will be assessed in clinical practice by practice assessors and practice supervisors in all areas of midwifery including antenatal, intrapartum, and postnatal.
Additionally, you can attend clinical placements in a non-midwifery environment.
Please note, you will be responsible for your own travel, accommodation, and general living costs while undertaking placements.
Located in our Sarah Swift Building, you will be able to access our realistic clinical suites which simulate home and hospital environments and aim to help you gain confidence in practice.
Located in our Sarah Swift Building, you'll be able to access our realistic clinical suites which simulate home and hospital environments and aim to help you gain confidence in practice.
128 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications to include 40 points from a science related subject.
(Biology, Human Biology, Physics, Chemistry, Sport Science, Psychology, Physical Education are accepted)
International Baccalaureate: 32 points overall to include a Higher Level 5 in a science related subject.
GCSE's:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above including English, Maths and Science, or equivalent qualifications, such as Functional Skills Level 2.
_________________________________________________
-  This course is not open for overseas applicants.
When you choose Midwifery in your UCAS application, you will be asked an additional question regarding criminal convictions.
https://www.lincoln.ac....shlanguagerequirements/ _________________________________________________ If your application is unsuccessful, you may be offered the option of changing your application to either the BSc in Nursing (Adult) or BSc in Nursing (Mental Health).
_________________________________________________ If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk.
This must be achieved from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications to include 40 points from a science related subject.
(Biology, Human Biology, Chemistry, Sport Science, Psychology are accepted)
Interviews are conducted online in a group setting.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/modhstub:
V200
Modern History at Lincoln specialises in history from 1800 to the present day.
This close focus offers the opportunity to better understand and navigate an increasingly socially, culturally, and politically complex world.
The BA (Hons) Modern History is distinctive both for its focus on modern history, and for the breadth of topics that students can choose to study.
Students will have the opportunity to study British, European, American, and global history.
While Lincoln is well-known for its medieval cathedral, it also provides an excellent setting in which to study modern history.
It is a vibrant city that has strong connections with histories of manufacturing, agriculture, and the Royal Air Force, and previous history students have contributed to the multi-million pound Bomber Command Centre.
The School of Humanities and Heritage has a strong research base in modern history with staff specialisms including gender, sexuality, race, media history, Chinese history, urban history, post-colonial history, material culture, American culture, and British politics.
Students will have the opportunity to study British, European, American, African, Asian, and global history.
The School of Humanities and Heritage has a strong research base in modern history with staff specialisms including gender, sexuality, race, media history, Chinese history, urban history, post-colonial history, material culture, American culture, environmental history, Russian history, British and European politics.
Subject ranked in the top 20 in the UK for student satisfaction*
Undertake work placements at local museums, heritage sites, schools, and char
*Guardian University Guide 2025 (out of 90 ranking institutions).
The first year of this programme is designed to provide a solid foundation of modern historical knowledge and introduce the skills needed to become a university historian.
Students can build on this foundation in years two and three, where they can choose from a wide range of optional modules based on the research specialisms of our academic team.
In the third year, students can work closely with academic staff to produce a dissertation (an extended piece of research) on a topic of their choice.
Modules may include Identities in the Modern World, Caribbean Un/freedoms: 17th to 20th Centuries, Forging the Modern State, Queering the Past, Empire and After: Colonialism and its Consequences, People on the Move: Migration, Identity and Mobility in the Modern World, Being Black in 20th Century Britain, and The US Since Reconstruction.
The course is taught via a combination of lectures, seminars, workshops, and tutorials.
During these years, students will also develop a broader set of employability skills to best prepare for life beyond university.
Modules may include Identities in the Modern World, Caribbean Un/freedoms: 17th to 20th Centuries, Forging the Modern State, Queering the Past, Empire and After: Colonialism and its Consequences, People on the Move: Migration, Identity and Mobility in the Modern World, Being Black in 20th Century Britain, Teaching History, and The US Since Reconstruction.
Throughout the course, an interdisciplinary approach will be taken, examining a variety of sources including newspapers, films, caricatures, literature, works of art, architecture, and oral testimony.
This module will interrogate the development and diversity of identities in the modern world.
It will take a wide geographical approach to ensure that students are introduced to identities outside of the Western world, and this will allow for comparative analysis over time and place.
Students will explore the development of ideas around race, ethnicity, national identity, gender, sexuality, and class in a way that will help them understand the competing and contested notions of those identities in the contemporary world.
Students are assessed through a wide variety of methods on the course to help them build their skills as historians, and to develop skills needed for employment.
Assessment methods may include: essays, exams, source analysis, presentations, assessed seminar participation, and digital assessments such as exhibitions or blog posts.
Assessment methods may include: essays, source analysis, presentations, assessed seminar participation, and digital assessments such as exhibitions, podcasts, or blog posts.
Students undertaking the course may have the option to study overseas for a term at one of the University’s partner institutions in Europe, North America, or Canada.
This offers the chance to discover new cultures and experiences.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/musmusub:
W300
Music at Lincoln is a contemporary, industry-focused degree for musicians looking to develop their skills as performers, composers, and collaborators within a flexible curriculum that encompasses classical, rock, pop, and non-Western music.
This course connects practice with theory, tradition with innovation, and personal creativity with collaborative projects.
As well as working with other musicians, students have the opportunity to work with dancers, actors, film­makers, animators, and computer game designers.
Practical skills are underpinned and enriched with an approach to studying music that positions practice alongside an understanding of musical histories, cultures, and genres, as well as developing the critical and reflective skills needed to articulate these connections.
The teaching team is made up of professional musicians and experienced researchers with expertise that encompasses numerous professions, disciplines, and media, such as musical theatre, composition, performance, orchestration, musical direction, and sound production.
Subject ranked in the top 10 in the UK for teaching satisfaction*
Opportunities to perform in a range of ensembles
Optional study abroad module
Gain industry experience with optional placements
Learn from staff who are professional musicians and researchers
Creative and collaborative arts community
*Guardian University Guide 2025 (out of 74 ranking institutions)
In the first year, topics include the development of key musical skills, the use of audio production technology, working with a score, the role of music in society, and the contemporary music industry.
Individual instrumental and vocal tuition is also available to all students.
In the second and third years, students can tailor the degree to suit their individual interests.
There are degree pathways that focus on performance or composition, as well as scope for students to explore a wide range of practical and academic skills.
In their third year, students can complete either a written dissertation on a subject of their choosing or undertake a practical project, such as writing and recording an album or arranging and performing in a tour.
Students can also curate an entire music festival in their final year, giving them the opportunity to present live work and develop key professional skills.
Contact time can be in workshops, ensemble rehearsals, discursive seminars or lectures and may vary from module to module and from academic year to year.
Practical work can take place in recording studios, performance spaces, rehearsal rooms and Mac workstations.
Students studying music should also schedule additional time to practise on their instrument.
The teaching team is made up of professional musicians and researchers with expertise that encompass numerous professions, disciplines and mediums, including performance, composition, musicology, and teaching music.
Teaching is enhanced by visiting practitioners, masterclasses, careers events, and alumni talks.
This module aims to provide a awareness of the decision-making process when recording audio, and how each decision impacts the quality and style of the resulting audio.
Through analysis of existing recorded audio, audio processing theory, and practical workshops, students will gain experience of industry standard recording techniques in both theory and practice.
In this modules students will think about what it is to 'make' music: the creative process involved in songwriting, composing and music production are explored through discussion and creative work.
Students have the opportunity to try their hand at different forms of creative practice before choosing on area to focus on as they create their own piece of music for assessment.
In this module students work with one or more staff-led ensembles, developing their ensemble performance skills through weekly rehearsals and preparation for performances.
This module establishes and focuses on the need for musicians to work together as performers and professionals.
Students will also work with ensemble leaders in areas of organisation, promotion and publicity, developing enterprise skills alongside their performance work.
This module introduces key concepts in the theory of music and applies them practically in a range of notation, orchestration and transcription exercises.
Students may come to the module with a range of prior knowledge of music theory: whatever their level, the flexible curriculum allows students to develop the areas that are important to them.
The module covers musics from a range of genres and traditions, offering a wide range of approaches to the theory of music in practice.
This module facilitates a thorough exploration of musicology in its broadest sense, laying the groundwork for students to develop a comprehensive understanding of music's cultural, historical, and theoretical dimensions.
The module cultivates critical thinking skills, inviting students to analyse and synthesise information across a diverse spectrum of music-related issues.
These issues are exemplified through a series of case studies, serving as pivotal building blocks for students to appreciate the broad areas that musicology encompasses and connects.
Music Management and Curation develops creative approaches to music enterprise, introducing thematic conception, musical curation, and event management as students develop the skills needed to create innovative musical projects.
The module supports students to take on broad managerial and creative roles in producing showcase performance weeks throughout the year,  and a public facing headline event with internal and external musical acts.
The module will enable students to develop skills in composing and arranging for a range of instruments and voices in solo and small ensemble settings.
In seminar sessions, students will explore the work of a range of composers from across cultures, styles and periods, examining music from technical, stylistic, aesthetic and critical perspectives.
They will develop their own techniques and approaches through analysis, practice and reflection.
In Mac Lab sessions students will have the opportunity to work with industry-standard software and work closely with composition staff on their work, whilst in workshops students will explore practical activities, including opportunities to hear their pieces live.
Unlock the power of hands-on learning with this dynamic module, providing you the opportunity to hone essential research skills through practical application.
Delve into various research approaches, including those seamlessly integrated into practice and performance.
This module not only equips you with a comprehensive understanding of research but also empowers you to apply these skills to elevate your individual projects at third year.
This module begins students' focus on the Performance programme pathway.
The module aims to enable students to develop skills in collaborating within a small ensemble and working effectively within a rehearsal environment.
In seminar sessions, students can explore the role of a performer and musician director from a range of perspectives (technical, stylistic, aesthetic and critical).
Students will be introduced to existing work from practitioners in the area, and can develop their own techniques and approaches through analysis, practice and reflection.
This Level 3 research-based module continues the exploration of music's cultural development which began in the first year.
Students further investigate three core approaches to musicology: historical, ethnomusicology, and systematic musicology through which the teaching team demonstrate how applying different methodological approaches and perspectives enables a wider and more nuanced understanding of the role music plays within the lives of individuals, the construction of communities, and the shaping of world culture.
Creative Entrepreneurship enables learners to recognise themselves as artistic citizens, with the capacity to undertake ambitious social entrepreneurship, community focused, or environmentally engaged projects, which build on the creative, analytical, reflective, and professional skills they have developed earlier in the course.
Students will research, design and prototype independent or collaborative projects which are demonstrably linked to the economic, social, or environmental needs of identified communities.
Your Career gives students the opportunity to gain a detailed understanding of real and current employment and business opportunities within their chosen field, which may be any sector of the music industries or wilder cultural economy.
Students develop skills that will allow them to tackle the job market effectively – such as portfolio building, CV writing and interview technique – whilst also building their experience of entrepreneurial skills such as business planning, start-ups, and the charity sector.
Students will work on two parallel strands: in one, they will use real and current employment and business opportunities as the basis of study, building detailed knowledge of a specific sector; in the other, they will research and plan a new business, product, or charity initiative.
Music Psychology aims to explain and understand musical behaviour and experience, including the processes through which music is created, perceived, responded to, and incorporated into everyday life.
Accordingly, this module will introduce students to the basic mechanisms underlying these human capacities.
During the course of this module, students will also be introduced to basic principles of empirical research methods.
Much of the assessment on this course will be practical and will reflect the demands and expectations of the music industries.
Depending on the chosen pathway, students may be asked to perform or to create and submit their music using various technologies.
Students may be required to submit their practical work as a portfolio documenting their creative process and development.
Written assessments come in various forms and are designed to develop writing skills for academic work, but also to allow students to develop industry-specific writing skills.
Students may therefore produce sleevenotes, funding applications, project reports, reflective journals, professional portfolios, websites, and writing in other relevant formats.
Hear from Marcus what it's like to study Music at the University of Lincoln!
As well as performing as part of your degree, it's vital to experience a range of music as a listener.
The degree introduces you to a wide range of music in the classroom, but also provides opportunities to see live music and experience live events such as talks and conferences.
In recent years students have experienced performances at Lincolnshire International Chamber Music Festival, Huddersfield Contemporary Music Festival, Nottingham Royal Concert Hall, Lincoln Arts Centre, and many others.
In addition, music students organise, contribute to, and attend our Music Conference, with third-year students presenting practical or written dissertation projects.
This event gives students the opportunity to be involved in the planning and delivery of an academic event where they can share their work in performance, composition, and music production, as well as through academic presentations.
There are opportunities to perform in staff-led ensembles including choirs, orchestras, and bands in a variety of styles.
You can join as many of these ensembles as you like at no extra cost.
We organise regular performances on and off campus, with students having previously performed at the Lincoln Arts Centre, the Platform Stage in The Engine Shed, Lincoln Cathedral, Lincoln Drill Hall, and for Lincolnshire International Chamber Music Festival.
Our optional placements module in the second year allows students the opportunity to gain work experience in the industry, focusing on a role suited to their career aspirations and specialist expertise developed on the programme.
The module encourages students to reach into the wider community to hone their skills for future employment.
Students are responsible for travel, accommodation, and general living costs while on placement.
Students recently visited London's Abbey Road Studios where best-selling albums have been recorded by artists including The Beatles.
Nebula Festival is a yearly festival organised by the Level 3 Music Department in The University of Lincoln, and every year we work with a charity.
Photo Credit: Phil Crow
Students and staff from BA (Hons) Music plan, practice and perform a variety of live work, much of which is assessed in their Christmas Ensemble.
Our talented BA (Hons) Music students travelled to the iconic Abbey Road Studios!
Learn about their experience as they collaborated with our skilled Sound and Music Production students, guided by an industry professional, to create incredible recordings in one of the world’s most famous studios.
In second year, students can choose to study abroad.
This optional module enables students to spend a term studying abroad at one of the University’s approved partner institutions.
Students are responsible for travel, accommodation, and general living costs while undertaking a period of study abroad.
I am able to look back and see the huge impact this course has had on me as both an academic and a musician.
From developing my musical knowledge, to giving me the tools and life skills to excel in any future career path I choose, this course has played a huge role in my development as an individual.
Amber Shucksmith
BA (Hons) Music
Through enterprise and career-focused teaching, you'll have the opportunity to engage with various parts of the music industries.
Previous students have benefited from connections with Frequency Festival, Lincolnshire International Chamber Music Festival, the International Guitar Foundation, Lincoln Arts Centre, Lincoln Drill Hall, and range of local venues and organisations.
We aim to provide our graduates with the necessary skills and experience to pursue careers as freelance songwriters, musical directors, arrangers, orchestrators, composers, studio technicians, teachers, vocal coaches, producers, agents, event managers, and arts managers among many other roles.
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent level 3 qualifications, To include a recognised practical music examination at Grade 5, A Level Music or equivalent qualification.
To include a recognised practical music examination at Grade 5, A Level Music or equivalent qualification.
We invite applicants to an Audition Day, during which you'll be asked to perform a 3–5 minute piece that shows you at your best, talk about your musical interests and experiences, and share with us your reasons for wanting to study at Lincoln.
There are no mandatory additional costs related to this course.
However, we would however generally expect students to own and maintain the instrument they are studying.
Though we do have pianos, guitars and drums that can be used or borrowed, other instruments may not be available.
Additional costs may apply for those participating in productions with the Lincoln Company.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/mustheub:
W40F
From London's West End to more experimental fringe performances, musical theatre spans the arts, inspiring and entertaining audiences around the world.
Our BA (Hons) Musical Theatre degree at Lincoln gives you the opportunity to create, perform, explore, and analyse musical theatre in all of its diversity.
You can learn from expert staff who are practitioners and scholars trained in musical theatre, music, theatre, and dance.
Workshops and masterclasses are delivered by visiting tutors, offering further opportunities to learn about the practical elements of musical theatre.
Unleash your creativity, hone your skills, and step into the spotlight as you prepare for a fulfilling career in the performing arts.
You can learn from expert staff who are practitioners and scholars trained in musical theatre, dance, theatre, and music.
Staff with experience of performing in the West End and Europe
450-seat theatre on campus
Opportunity to study abroad
Workshops and masterclasses by visiting tutors
One-to-one singing lessons available at no extra cost
Gain hands-on experience in industry or a school setting
While training at Lincoln, you can gain practical experience by immersing yourself in the process of producing and performing musicals, alongside complementary historical and contextual analysis modules.
Teaching is delivered via practical workshops, seminars, lectures, technique classes, technique classes, and one-to-one vocal lessons.
You can hone your skills during performances, reflecting on the productions to gain a rounded contextual understanding of musical theatre.
As the course progresses, you can learn about the history of musicals and their significance in contemporary society, while undertaking more independent, industry-focused tasks, emphasising employability and preparing you to enter into a variety of associated careers.
The practical elements of the course are taught through group and one-to-one tuition with guest workshops allowing students to expand their practical professional abilities.
The critical elements of the course are taught through a series of lectures and seminars.
Weekly one-to-one singing lessons are available at no extra cost, and students participate in regular dance technique classes.
There are also opportunities to learn develop audition skills and explore the techniques of acting through song.
Guidance on how to form a musical theatre company, devise a show, and tour the production around the country is also available.
There are also modules where you can learn how to teach musical theatre.
Additional costs may apply.
Teaching is delivered via practical workshops, seminars, lectures, technique classes, and one-to-one vocal lessons.
The practical elements of the course are taught through group and one-to-one tuition with guest workshops allowing you to expand your practical professional abilities.
Weekly one-to-one singing lessons are available at no extra cost, and you can participate in regular dance technique classes.
There are also opportunities to learn and develop audition skills and explore the techniques of acting through song.
As part of your studies, you may also choose to study abroad through one of our many international schemes, or take up a placement in a professional setting, working alongside a theatre company, arts organisation, school, or other education setting.
The course really helped to transform me as a performer, as well as gain insight into the industry and my place within it, particularly coming from an international background.
André Buhagiar
BA (Hons) Musical Theatre
This module offers an in-depth exploration of musical theatre history, emphasising learning through doing.
You can consider the evolution of musical theatre by actively engaging with scenes, songs, and dance repertoire.
The module introduces the concept of research engagement through practice, allowing for an embodied understanding of musical theatre history and practices.
This module explores the landscape of musical theatre in non-English speaking countries, beyond Broadway and the West End.
Although it is these production centres that are most familiar, there is a remarkable amount of activity taking place around the world.
In this module, you can discover what musical theatre is like from the Philippines to Mexico, and from Israel to Japan.
Under the guidance of our dedicated staff, you will refine your vocal and dance skills in weekly technique classes.
This module gives you the chance to collaborate as a company to rehearse and stage a musical performance.
Explore the art of crafting a short musical in this module.
You'll build upon your creative and reflective skills, learning about themes, structures, music, and lyric conventions essential for an impactful musical.
Under the guidance of your tutors, you'll work collaboratively to create, rehearse, and present your musical.
Under the tuition of our staff, you will continually develop their vocal and dance skills in regular sessions throughout the year.
You will develop and expand your vocal and dance skills in individual singing lessons and group dance classes.
Join forces as a company to rehearse and stage your ultimate musical performance.
Dive into the professional show development and rehearsal process, gaining invaluable first-hand insight.
This is your moment to shine and showcase your talent before stepping into the next phase after graduation
This module will provide you with valuable experience and develop the requisite skills and practical materials for future employment opportunities.
It will tie together your subject knowledge and practical skills in the research and development of a detailed professional portfolio that may be used as a live document for the working musical theatre practitioner from the perspective of both creativity and business.
The programme uses a variety of assessments, designed to ensure you have the skills needed to enter the industry.
Assessment methods may include: practical workshops, seminars, lectures, technique classes, and one to one vocal lessons.
As the course progresses, assessments focus on independent, industry-focused tasks, which emphasise employability.
Feedback will be both formative (through ongoing feedback during class/rehearsal sessions) and summative (through written feedback following specific assessment points).
To support your development and growth, you will receive ongoing feedback during class and rehearsal sessions, as well as targeted feedback after assessments.
You can learn from a team of academics who have a wide-range of industry experience performing across Europe, directing musicals around the UK, and playing in the West End.
The team are also active researchers and practitioners writing about musical theatre and performance in a range of contexts and continuing to work within their specialist areas of practice.
This knowledge, experience, and understanding underpins and informs our teaching, enhancing your learning.
Musical Theatre offers additional technique and masterclasses to enable you to acquire new skills and further your development.
Previous sessions have included ensemble work, mindfulness, audition technique, commercial dance, and stage combat.
You may also be able to work with visiting directors, choreographers, musical directors, and musical theatre companies to create exciting musical theatre performances.
This qualification provides a basis for you to progress into dance teaching in a variety of contexts.
It is delivered in three units by a qualified IDTA trainer, covering anatomy and physiology, teaching planning and delivery, and safe dance practice.
You are also able to apply for The Lincoln Company, the School of Creative Arts’ professional company of emerging performance makers.
As the company-in-residence at Lincoln Arts Centre, each year they work to produce and tour high-quality, original performances to venues and festivals around the UK including Edinburgh Festival Fringe – the world’s largest platform for the arts.
Each student will receive event/performance credits which can be used against ticketed performances at the Lincoln Arts Centre.
You may have regular opportunities to perform throughout your studies at the University of Lincoln
There may be opportunities to work with guest creatives to create performance work.
You can develop your technique in weekly dance and one-to-one singing lessons.
The Musical Theatre programme is a member of the Musical Theatre Network an organisation dedicated to improving opportunities for new musical theatre in the UK.
University of Lincoln Musical Theatre students are also eligible for student membership of equity – the trade union for the performing arts and entertainment industries.
Students can also join Spotlight , the UK's largest casting resource.
In the second year, Musical Theatre students can choose to undertake a placement or teaching module.
These opportunities allow students to gain hands-on experience in an industry context or a school setting.
Students are expected to source their own placement, but tutors can provide support during the process if required.
Those who choose these options are expected to cover their travel, accommodation, and general living costs.
The BA (Hons) Musical Theatre degree aims to equip students with the confidence, knowledge, and industry skills to pursue a freelance career in the theatre or to form small-scale touring companies.
Those completing the course are well-placed for roles across the wider cultural industries.
This course has given me the courage, power, and creative freedom to become the best version of myself
Becca Bustard
Successful applicants will be invited to attend an interview-audition, providing an opportunity to see our facilities and meet the course team.
By meeting you in person we get to know more about your musical interests, experiences, and aspirations, and you get to meet the Musical Theatre team that may soon be teaching you .
This will give you an opportunity to experience how the course is taught, gaining experience of a practical and contextual session.
Students are expected to have appropriate clothing for class and we estimate that this may cost around £40 per year.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/nurnurub:
B710
The University of Lincoln recognises the challenges facing current and future healthcare and nursing practice, offering three distinct nursing programmes specialising in adult, child, and mental health.
Our student nurses played a key role during the Covid-19 pandemic.
As well as supporting hospitals and vaccination centres across Lincolnshire, their help played an integral component to the success of the University's Test and Trace Centre.
We're extremely proud of our students for their contribution and dedication.
The School of Health and Social Care works with employers to provide employees with the opportunity to study for an undergraduate BSc (Hons) Nursing degree through an apprenticeship route, funded by the Government and your employer.
The University of Lincoln also offers an 18-month top up degree on an apprenticeship or self-funded route.
Find out more about these options online: https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/shsc/apprenticeships/bscnursingapprenticeship/
Accredited by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC)
Gain wider experience through a range of placements in a variety of settings
Specialist clinical suites which simulate hospital and home environments
Theoretical and clinical elements centred on NHS values
Explore the theory behind leading and managing nursing care
mental health module informed by feedback from students on career needs
In your first year, you can focus on building a solid base of knowledge by understanding human development across the life span, the role of the nurse in contemporary society, principles of person-centred care, and concepts around health and illness such as digital literacy, public health, inequalities in health, and health legislation and how these impact on individual and community health.
In the second year, you are able to begin exploring what happens to health and wellbeing in the presence of disease, illness, or injury and interventions to help people recover from these illnesses.
You will also be able to learn about the effects of changes in mental health and wellbeing and the role of research in nursing, enabling you to become confident and competent in using research to inform practice.
Across the third year, you can focus on making the transition to newly qualified nurse and prepare for aspects of you new role, such as managing, co-ordinating and leading care, supporting students in the workplace, staff development, and resources management.
You will also be able to investigate a healthcare topic of your choice and produce a literature review.
The aim of this module is to widen students' understanding of health, well-being and communities.
Students will gain knowledge of how our health is impacted – learning what determines our health and where there are clearly identified health inequalities.
Students will be supported to interrogate public health data, read seminal public health reports and explore international, national, and local health priorities.
They will start to gain skills and knowledge in how nurses can promote health, undertake early intervention to prevent ill health and protect patients and service users.
In this module, you can develop an understanding of human anatomy and physiology across the lifespan and are able to explore health and human development in terms of physiological processes, to consider health, illness, and disease.
You will also have the opportunity to develop your fundamental nursing care skills, in preparation for your first practice placement.
The aim of this module is to introduce you to the role of the nurse within contemporary healthcare and within your chosen field of nursing.
You will develop knowledge and understanding of key concepts within nursing, including moral, legal and ethical aspects.
In addition, you will be supported in the development of appropriate academic and study skills.
You will also engage in activities designed to allow you to achieve personal and professional growth, including self-awareness, resilience and team-working.
The aim of this module is to provide you with the opportunity to undertake practice learning in a safe, supported, and appropriate environment in accordance with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (2018) standards.
During this module, you will have practice learning opportunities that allow you to ‘meet the professional values, communication and relationship management skills and nursing skills to meet specific aspects of the standards of proficiency for registered nurses’ (Nursing and Midwifery Council, 2018, p.13).
You can attend placements where you will be a supernumerary member of the team.
You will be supported by registered professionals who will act as practice supervisors, by non-registered colleagues, and the multi-disciplinary team.
A Registered Nurse will be assigned to work with you as your Practice Assessor and will work with you to ensure completion of the practice assessment document.
You will be supported by the University team and an allocated Academic Assessor to develop your professional skills and attributes.
Your allocated practice placements during Part 1 will allow you to observe, participate and assist in the provision of evidence-based care.
By the end of your Part 1 placements, you should demonstrate a minimum level of skills, knowledge, and behaviours, described as: Guided participation in care and performing with increasing confidence and competence.
The aim of this module is to introduce students to a range of concepts, theories and practices that underpin person-centred care.
Students will learn how the voices of the person who is receiving care, their family and/or carers are key to delivering truly person-centred, safe and compassionate care.
They will explore the role of technology and innovation and develop a wider understanding of biopsychosocial and spiritual dimensions in delivering care.
The ‘where, how and why’ care is delivered will be explored giving students a firm base for practice in relation to person-centred approaches to health, well-being and care.
The aim of this module is to help you to develop your knowledge and understanding of the complex needs of adults living with long-term complex conditions and life-limiting illness.
Key concepts you can cover, include symptom management, palliative care, professional, ethical and legal frameworks of care, intra-agency working, self-management strategies, transition to adult services, and end of life care.
This module seeks to deepen your understanding of concepts, knowledge, and skills relating to the complex care needs of adults within a contemporary health and social care landscape.
You can further your theoretical and practical knowledge of a range of long-term conditions and complexities of co-morbidities whilst deepening your understanding of co-production and shared decision-making, ethical and legal decision making, alongside case load management, care of the adult with complex care needs, and aspects of end-of-life care.
This module will allow students to develop their understanding of the concepts and principles of pathophysiology, the biological basis of acute illness and related pharmacological management and support.
Students will explore pathophysiological processes and the key sciences which underpin clinical decision-making in all aspects of healthcare.
This will allow students to develop their knowledge base and apply these concepts within their own field of nursing practice.
This module will ensure that Adult Nursing students have a thorough field-specific holistic knowledge of how good and poor mental health impacts on people across the lifespan with a focus on the impact on people seen in physical healthcare settings including emergency medical settings, pre-hospital care and community.
During this module, you can have practice learning opportunities that allow you to ‘meet the professional values, communication, and relationship management skills and nursing skills to meet specific aspects of the standards of proficiency for registered nurses’ (Nursing and Midwifery Council, 2018, p.13).
You are able to attend placements where you will be a supernumerary member of the team.
A Registered Nurse will be assigned to you as your Practice Assessor and will work with you to ensure completion of the practice assessment document.
Your allocated practice placements during Part 2 will allow you to observe, participate, and assist in the provision of evidence-based care.
By the end of your Part 2 placements, you should be able to demonstrate a minimum level of skills, knowledge, and behaviours, described as: Active participation in care with minimal guidance and performing with increasing confidence and competence.
The aim of this module is to further your knowledge and understanding of the research process and its use in the development of innovative evidence-based practice.
The Nursing and Midwifery Council Code (2018, p.10) states that nurses must “always practice in line with the best available evidence” and must “make sure that any information or advice given is evidence-based”.
To comply with the NMC Code, you must understand how research underpins and informs the development of contemporary evidence-based practice.
Completion of this module will allow you to build on your knowledge and understanding of research and evidence-based practice gained during year 1.
The dissertation module is designed to consolidate all the problem identification, enquiry, analysis and critical thinking skills you have gained during your time on the programme.
With the support of your dissertation supervisor, you will identify a clinically focused topic, develop a research question, and undertake a review of the existing literature, with the aim of making recommendations for practice, based on your critical appraisal of the evidence base and synthesis of your findings.
This module aims to further develop your team, management, and leadership knowledge and skills.
You will be supported to develop your understanding of different leadership styles and how you can implement this in practice.
You can also develop skills in how to supervise others and to prepare for your role as a practice supervisor for students in a practice learning environment.
You are able to interact with core professional knowledge to understand the sources of professional support and accountability – understanding and reflecting on topical communications from national nurse leadership.
You will consider aspects such as major and critical incidents, governance, the principles of health economics and their relevance to healthcare resource allocation, as well as preparation for your role as an accountable registrant.
This module will provide students with an enhanced knowledge and understanding of their responsibilities as a registrant in relation to medicines management.
Students will share learning within the wider cohort (across different fields of nursing) and will also investigate  specific medicines in more detail.
Medicines optimisation, professional roles and responsibilities and the complexity of medicines will be reviewed alongside revisiting aspects of medicines management such as concordance and working with others.
During this module, you will have practice learning opportunities that allow you to ‘meet the professional values, communication, relationship management skills, and nursing skills to meet specific aspects of the standards of proficiency for registered nurses’ (Nursing and Midwifery Council, 2018, p.13).
Your allocated practice placements during Part 3 will allow you to observe, participate and assist in the provision of evidence-based care.
By the end of your Part 3 placements, you should demonstrate a high level of skills, knowledge, and behaviours, described as: Practising independently with minimal supervision and leading and co-ordinating care with confidence.
This module will allow students to deepen their knowledge and skills in caring for more seriously ill adults, recognising signs, symptoms and expressions that indicate a deteriorating condition.
Students will learn how to undertake and interpret more complex assessments and early warning systems.
They will be equipped with knowledge and skills to support their actions and decision making in a deteriorating clinical situation.
Students will also further develop their communication skills to support escalation and emergency situations.
The way you're assessed may vary for each module.
Examples of assessment methods that are used include written assignments, presentations, workbooks, and practical observations.
This course is accredited by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC), and enables you to register as a qualified nurse upon graduation.
You'll be required to complete competencies for nursing in practice as part of the NMC Future Nursing: Standards framework for Nursing and Midwifery (2018).
Work placements are designed to prepare you to meet the challenges of a rapidly changing clinical environment, whether this be a hospital, GP surgery, or community healthcare setting.
All students will be allocated placement opportunities across a wide range of clinical settings, to allow them to experience care delivery within different environments, and to understand the varied aspects of a nurse's role.
Please note, you'd be responsible for travel, accommodation, and general living costs relating to placements.
Placement expenses for travel, accommodation may be reimbursed by NHS Bursaries where, for example, the requirement exceeds that of attending university; requires transport out of normal operating hours; or requires additional accommodation to that of the usual term time location.
To enhance your studies, you'll have access to the University's specialist clinical suites which simulate hospital and home environments.
In particular, our mock ward hospital setting features realistic patient bays as well as clinical tools to provide a realistic NHS-standard facility to help you gain confidence in practice.
To enhance your studies, you'll have access to the University's specialist clinical suites in our Sarah Swift Building which simulate hospital and home environments.
This route enables Accredited Prior Learning (APL) to be applied if evidence can be provided of 120 credits (Level 4) and 60 credits (Level 5), along with evidence of 1,150 practice hours.
We would recommend that you discuss your individual requirements with us prior to application to ensure that this option is the right pathway for you.
You can find out more about this apprenticeship online .
Nursing at Lincoln has helped to prepare me for the challenges of the evolving world of healthcare.
It has brought out strengths and abilities within me that I didn't know I had.
Peter Sutton
BSc Nursing (Registered Nurse - Adult)
Graduates have progressed to nursing roles in a range of diverse health and social care settings, from acute nursing to community care, or in education, research, and health management.
Some have gone on to further study at postgraduate level.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall
EU and International students whose first language is not English will require English Language IELTS 7.0 with no less than 6.5 in each element.
Country-specific requirements can be found at https://www.lincoln.ac....irementsandyourcountry/ and https://www.lincoln.ac....shlanguagerequirements/
104 to 112 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent level 3 qualifications.
GCSEs:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above including English, Maths and Science, or equivalent qualifications, such as Functional Skills Level 2.
Additional requirements: - Successful performance at an interview.
- EU and International students whose first language is not English will require English Language IELTS 6.5 with no less than 6.0 in each element.
Country-specific requirements can be found at https://www.lincoln.ac....irementsandyourcountry/ and https://www.lincoln.ac....shlanguagerequirements/
To apply for this course as a self-funded student you will need to submit an application through our online application system using the button below.
Apply Now

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/nurcldub:
B730
We' re extremely proud of our students for their contribution and dedication.
The programmes aim to prepare you to become fit for practice in accordance with the NMC's Standards for Pre-registration Nursing Education and be eligible to register as a qualified nurse.
You'll be encouraged to become a confident, critically analytical advocate of excellence in nursing practice within your respective specialisms.
The information presented in this video was correct at the time of filming, course details and modules are subject to change.
Please see website for more information.
Learning outcomes of courses will depend on individual student engagement.
This module will deepen students' understanding of concepts, knowledge and skills relating to children with complex care needs within a contemporary health and social care landscape.
Students will further their theoretical and practical knowledge of a range of long-term conditions and complexities of co-morbidities whilst deepening their understanding of co-production and shared decision-making, ethical and legal decision making, alongside case load management and care of the child living with complex care needs and their family’s needs, and aspects of end-of-life care.
This module will allow students to deepen their knowledge and skills in caring for more seriously ill children and young people, recognising signs, symptoms and expressions that indicate a deteriorating condition.
The way you'll be assessed may vary for each module.
Examples of assessment methods that are used include written assignments, presentations, workbooks and practical observations.
_______________________________________
https://www.lincoln.ac....shlanguagerequirements/ ___________________________________________ If your application is unsuccessful, you may be offered the option of changing your application to either the BSc in Nursing (Adult) or BSc in Nursing (Mental Health).
___________________________________________
________________________________________________
__________________________________________________

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/nurmnhub:
B760
We are extremely proud of our students for their contribution and dedication.
Our professionally-accredited programmes enable students to become registered nurses with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC).
This module will allow students to deepen their knowledge and understanding of the care of people who are mentally ill, recognising signs, symptoms and presentations that indicate relapse or deterioration in an individual.
Students will learn how to undertake and interpret complex assessments and use of early warning indicators.
They will be equipped with knowledge and skills to support their actions and decision-making in a deteriorating clinical situation.
Students will explore the role of the multidisciplinary team through a range of interventions including the use of the Mental Health Act 1983, amended 2007.
This module will also equip students to consider safe discharge to promote empowerment.
Nursing at Lincoln has given me the opportunity to develop academically, practically, and professionally when working in different mental health services.
Nadine Crofts, student nurse
BSc Nursing (Registered Nurse - Mental Health)
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/ _________________________________________________
______________________________________________
Details on scholarships and bursaries available to Overseas and EU students can be found online: https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/scholarshipsandbursaries/

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/nurparub:
B780
Paramedics work on the frontline of healthcare, looking after those in need and responding to a wide range of situations, from minor wounds and conditions to more serious, life-threatening injuries and illnesses.
The BSc (Hons) Paramedic Science course at Lincoln is designed to provide students with the theoretical knowledge, clinical skills, and practical work experience needed to provide high-quality, autonomous, and responsive healthcare associated with the professional practice of a paramedic.
From September 2020, new and returning degree-level nursing and midwifery students, and some students in allied health professions, will receive a payment of at least £5,000 a year which they will not need to pay back.
This is in addition to any financial support they receive through the Student Loans Company.
Subject area ranked 1st in the UK for teaching satisfaction*
Take part in emergency simulation events
Gain practical experience during placements
Endorsed by the College of Paramedics
Register upon completion with the Health and Care Professions Council
*Guardian University Guide 2025 (out of 37 ranking institutions)
The course aims to develop students' knowledge and skills to assess, diagnose, treat, and refer patients to the most appropriate care pathway.
The theoretical and clinical elements of the course are intended to cover all of the key areas of study outlined by the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) and College of Paramedics.
These include physical sciences; life sciences; social, health, and behavioural sciences; clinical sciences; ethics and law; patient assessment; care delivery; leadership and practice education; evidence-based practice; health informatics; incident response management; and practice skills.
The course is offered over three academic years, each consisting of 45 weeks of study.
Approximately 2,850 hours are spent on study and theory, while the remaining time is spent gaining practical, supervised experience with a variety of healthcare providers.
We recommend three hours of independent study for every one hour of teaching.
The module provides a theoretical and practical introduction to the core skills required for paramedic practice including mandatory education relating to placement.
The module introduces you to patient assessment, essential clinical skills and clinical decision making.
The module will introduce you to the evidence based practice approach that underpins paramedic science and to reflective practice, academic writing and study skills which will underpin the programme.
The module involves peer to peer education and you will begin a reflective journal which will span buddying and peer education over the three years of the programme.
This module begins by developing an appreciation of how the human body is organised from a cellular to a systems level.
Using a systems based approach, you will gain an understanding of human anatomy and physiology developing a sound knowledge of how systems function together in order to maintain homeostasis.
The content on this module, including an introduction to medical terminology, will provide a foundation upon which the level 5 and 6 pathophysiology and pharmacology modules will build.
The learning contained in this module will form a basis in order that you can understand normal patient presentations, thereby linking closely with practical modules.
This module will provide you with an understanding of the basic principles of behavioural science.
It will assist you in your assessment of the behavioural and psychological issues relating to health and give you an understanding of the issues surrounding a range of mental health conditions.
You will learn how to recognise signs of stress in yourself and others, identify where to access the different types of support available and explore and develop personal resilience strategies.
This module provides a theoretical and practical introduction for a range of specialist populations and circumstances you will encounter in practice.
The module will introduce you to paediatric assessment including paediatric intermediate life support.
It will introduce you to the subject of obstetrics including stages of labour and complications.
You will learn how to work interprofessionally and collaboratively with professionals and service users upholding standards of professionalism and promoting person centred care.
The module introduces you to care of the older person including End of Life Care and breaking bad news.
The module also prepares you for dealing with major incidents including interoperability and the control and command structure within the ambulance service.
The module builds upon the core skills introduced in the level 4 Essential Skills for Paramedic Science Module.
The module will further develop essential patient assessment skills, delving deeper into the medical model of assessment in line with Advanced Medical Life Support (AMLS), leading to advancing clinical skills and clinical decision making.
You will gain a thorough understanding of Advanced Life Support and Advanced Trauma Life Support with emphasis on patient assessment, clinical decision making and appropriate intervention, including administration of relevant medication.
The module includes learning and teaching in the area of major incident management.
The module involves buddying students from year 1 and continuing your reflective journey in this area.
The 21st century Paramedic is required to practice in a way that is infused with humanity as well as evidence; responding to the individual needs of those in their care and acting in accordance with individual best interests, whilst forming a relationship based on respect and trust.
This module relates to professional practice that is informed by appropriate values and ethics.
This module will encourage you to take a positive and proactive approach towards promoting social inclusion, valuing diversity and promoting ethical healthcare practice.
You will explore different perspectives and how your personal and professional values interact with those of others, including how these interactions can be managed in order to create a meaningful and productive work environment.
This module will require you to demonstrate knowledge, understanding and application of ethical theory, principles and professional skills within a health and social care context.
You will be expected to articulate what it means to be an accountable, interprofessional and collaborative practitioner within a healthcare team and an advocate for applied ethics within contemporary practice whilst respecting the partnership with service users, carers, agencies and other professionals.
This module will develop your knowledge and understanding of a range of both acute and long-term conditions.
Key pathological processes will be examined and, by recognition of signs and symptoms and identification of differential diagnoses, relevant interventions and treatment will be identified.
The role of paramedics is increasingly being interrogated in the larger health and social care system, resulting in them playing an important role in promoting good health within their profession.
This module will give you a theoretical understanding and knowledge of the role their profession will play in health promotion, health education and in the prevention of ill health.
It will empower you to play a part in managing service user health as well as your own.
This module builds upon the Essential Skills and Developing Skills modules at level 1 and 2.
The Advancing Skills module aims to provide students with advanced clinical decision making, assessment and treatment skills based around minor injuries and illnesses.
This module will develop your understanding of pharmacology theory including principles of pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics.
It will provide a sound understanding of the medications available to paramedics and those encountered in the pre-hospital environment including how these relate to a range of pathologies.
Patient medications will be explored together with issues around polypharmacy and the problems that may arise as a result.
Legal and ethical issues will be discussed, including the management of patients suffering the effects of illegal and recreational drugs.
This module explores aspects of leadership and management in healthcare, alongside practical skills for facilitating practice learning, preparing you to become a practice educator of the future.
You will gain an understanding of management and leadership theory and how human factors can impact upon organisational culture, service delivery and clinical practice.
You will learn how to function effectively as a member of a team, motivating and supporting your colleagues.
We will collectively explore the skills required for critical and constructive reflection as a registered professional, preparing for lifelong personal and professional development.
This will include practicing coaching and mentorship techniques, to support and facilitate the development of others on the programme; reflecting the culmination of your engagement in peer to peer education and buddying throughout the programme.
This module will develop your understanding of the importance of evidence based practice and how it impacts upon the provision of health and social care and shapes the processes of service improvement.
You will gain an understanding of how to locate and critically appraise evidence, obtain an overview of different research methodologies and learn how to analyse and apply evidence and data.
You will be assessed both formally and informally throughout your degree to support your learning and development.
Assessments will take place both within the University, and practice placement environments via a range of methods including lectures, seminars,  and clinical skills and simulation sessions.
Some of the assessment will be led by your tutors but you will also be encouraged to engage in peer and self-assessment to help you develop the skills of reflection and evaluation which are essential for lifelong learning, and continued professional development.
Some of the assessments focus on theoretical knowledge and the application of theory, others on the practical performance of technical skills and application of patient management.
Detailed guidance of what is expected, and the assessment criteria will be provided for each module.
Examples of assessment methods that are used include coursework, such as written assignments, reports or dissertations; practical exams, such as group and individual presentations, performances or observed structured clinical examinations (OSCEs); and written exams, such as formal examinations, in-class tests, portfolios, or projects.
The College of Paramedics has endorsed the BSc (Hons) Paramedic Science.
College of Paramedics endorsement aims to promote and celebrate high quality education and training, over and above the minimum standards threshold required by the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).
On successful completion of the programme students will be eligible to apply for registration with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) as a Paramedic.
Students are required to cover their own travel, accommodation, and general living costs while on placement, however, may be eligible for the NHS Learning Support Fund .
In line with their preparation for a career as a paramedic, students should gain a full category C1 driving licence by the end of the programme at their own cost.
To enhance your studies, you may have the opportunity to gain practical experience of real-life emergency scenarios by taking part in our simulation days, operating across a range of settings and locations across the university campus, working alongside other healthcare students at the University of Lincoln.
The teaching styles of the lecturers and the amazingly equipped clinical suites are second to none, not to mention the fantastic simulation days, which are so realistic!
I am proud to be a University of Lincoln student!
Shannon Kerry-Davies
BSc Paramedic Science student
120 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications to include 40 points from a science related subject.
(Biology, Human Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Sport Science, Physical Education, Psychology, Life and Sciences are accepted)
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 120 UCAS Tariff points, including 40 points from 15 credits in a science related subject.
When you choose Paramedic Science in your UCAS application, you will be asked an additional question regarding criminal convictions.
_____________________________________________
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/ ___________________________________________ If your application is unsuccessful, you may be offered the option of changing your application to either the BSc in Nursing (Adult) or BSc in Nursing (Mental Health).
BTEC Extended Diploma in Applied Science: Distinction, Merit, Merit.
There is also a requirement to purchase certain apps and books to support you in your studies and as a paramedic.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/phaphaub:
B231
Our aim at Lincoln is to produce passionate pharmaceutical scientists who are adept in addressing the healthcare challenges of the future and are well prepared for careers in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries.
The course offers an insight into the structure, function, and mechanisms of drugs; how different drugs can act on the human body; and how their potentially lifesaving effects can be harnessed safely.
The programme is closely aligned with the pharmaceutical industry and has been developed with employer input.
Students can then progress to examining the analytical methods relevant to drug development, medicine delivery, immunology, pharmacology, and toxicology in the second year, where they will also explore key research techniques.
There are also opportunities for students to take part in research alongside academics in order to develop their knowledge and experience, and enhance their skill set.
The course includes lectures, seminars, laboratory-based practical classes, and lectures from visiting scientists from the pharmaceutical industry.
Some graduates choose to undertake further study at postgraduate level.
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels to include 32 points in Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
(Health or Health not accepted).
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points including 32 points from 15 credits in Biology, Chemistry, or Physics.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall to include a Higher Level 4 in Biology, Chemistry, or Physics.
This must be achieved from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent Level 3 qualifications, to include 32 points from Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
A Level: BCC to BBC to include a Grade B in Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 104 to 112 UCAS points to be achieved from 45 Level 3 credits, including 40 points from 15 credits in Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall to include a Higher Level in Biology, Chemistry or Physics.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/phabusum:
B236
Our aim at Lincoln is to produce passionate pharmaceutical scientists who are adept in addressing the healthcare challenges of the future and are well prepared for careers as leaders in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, especially for students who are aiming to have an active role in the running and management of these businesses.
The MSci Pharmaceutical Science with Business Management begins by offering an insight into the structure, function, and mechanisms of drugs; how different drugs can act on the human body; and how their potentially lifesaving effects can be harnessed safely.
During the programme, students will have the opportunity to lead on projects which address real-world problems currently faced by the pharmaceutical industry, alongside the chance to develop an understanding of how their decisions in the management of these projects can have business implications.
At Lincoln, our academic staff include experienced pharmaceutical and management researchers and practitioners.
This innovative programme and curriculum is closely aligned with the pharmaceutical industry, and has been developed with employer input with the aim of producing high quality work-ready graduates that are actively sought by the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries.
The first year of the programme introduces students to the core subjects that are fundamental to pharmaceutical science, such as chemistry, cell biology, human anatomy, and disease.
In the final year, students will use the knowledge they have gained in the previous years to lead projects to solve problems currently experienced in the pharmaceutical industry as well as study within the Lincoln International Business School to gain insight into key management and business concepts.
Students can then progress to the second year where they examine the different drug analytical methods, drug development and development techniques, medicine formulation and delivery, immunology, pharmacology, and toxicology.
In today's rapidly evolving business landscape, the introduction of new technologies, products, infrastructures, or systems is essential yet increasingly complex.
This complexity arises from conflicting stakeholder requirements, irreversible investments, operational constraints and associated risks.
Consequently, effective project management has become crucial for businesses to respond flexibly and swiftly to customer demands.
Managers now need project competence and a systems-oriented management style that transcends traditional functional roles throughout the project lifecycle.
Project management is thus a vital management philosophy for navigating dynamic business environments and achieving innovative or unprecedented outcomes.
This module aims to equip students with the skills to deliver change or transformation through effective project management.
Students will gain a comprehensive understanding of tools and techniques required for project initiation, planning, execution, control and termination.
Through diverse teaching methods, students will learn to plan and execute projects efficiently and effectively, considering the broader business context in which they operate.
This module aims to provide you with an understanding of how to create and sustain high-performing teams.
Through a review of existing and emerging theories and models of leadership, team formation, motivation, communication, power, and diversity, you can gain theoretically sound knowledge of team behaviour and effectiveness.
A variety of engaging practical exercises seek to enable you to develop you skills as an effective and empathetic team leader and valuable team member.
(Health or Health Science not accepted).
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points including 32 points from 15 credits in Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
This must be achieved from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent Level 3 qualifications, to include 40 points from Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
A Level: BBC to BBB to include a Grade B in Biology, Chemistry or Physics
BTEC Extended Diploma in Applied Science: DDM
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 112 to 120 UCAS points to be achieved from 45 Level 3 credits, including 40 points from 15 credits in Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
International Baccalaureate: 30 points overall to include a Higher Level in Biology, Chemistry or Physics.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/phrphrum:
B230
The MPharm course at Lincoln combines the science of medicines and disease with the development of the patient-facing decision-making skills and professional practice required by modern pharmacists.
The course introduces the science underpinning how drugs are developed and produced and how they interact with the body to treat and prevent disease.
It includes an understanding of how we evaluate medicines for safety and effectiveness.
The patient-facing skills include developing the clinical decision-making and communication skills required to translate and apply the science to optimise treatment for individual patients within the different sectors of pharmacy practice.
Our graduates can progress to their foundation training year, after which they can register as a pharmacist if they meet all of the professional criteria set by the  General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC).
The University of Lincoln's School of Pharmacy has excellent links with local hospitals, community pharmacists, and other healthcare professionals, providing opportunities to develop students' clinical learning and skills within a wide range of practices and patient-facing environments throughout the course.
MPharm students will have the opportunity to undertake placements within hospital, community, and primary care; these will be integrated throughout the curriculum to support students' learning and development.
The MPharm degree course at the University of Lincoln has received full accreditation of the GPhC standards for initial education and training (2021).
Our graduates can progress to their Foundation Training Year, after which they can register as a pharmacist if they meet all the stipulated criteria set by the GPhC.
Once registered, they will also be entitled to prescribe.
Further information can be found on the GPhC website together with accreditation reports from all the Schools of Pharmacy.
General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC) accreditation
Learn from pharmaceutical scientists and registered pharmacists
Explore the full life cycle of a patient
Undertake placements throughout
Integrated pharmacy modules are taught each year, and these follow the life cycle of the patient, initially in a healthy state, and then the same modules are studied from the perspective of disease and ill health.
In addition to the integrated modules, each year contains a pass/fail experiential learning module (related to placement activity) so that what a student learns is put into practice.
The course is taught within the context of the medical conditions that patients present, and is structured around a typical patient's life cycle.
It is supported by case studies and patient-facing activities, which increase in complexity as the course progresses and the patient ages.
Students can learn within the context of the common conditions that present at that stage of life, supported by case studies.
These fall within several therapeutic learning threads, that will be revisited and develop as the course progresses, and the complexity of care increases.
The course will incorporate important aspects of pharmaceutical care, clinical and professional skills and health promotion integrated with the underlying science of the diseases and of the medicines used.
The course is taught through integrated learning sessions, workshops and tutorials, laboratory and physiology practicals, group tutorials, problem-based learning, placements, and health promotion activities in the community.
Students may also have the opportunity to work with patients in our consultation rooms.
The MPharm provides a structured placement programme over all four years in community and hospital pharmacies, GP practices, and a variety of others locations including hospices, critical care, and a mental health trust.
The science (how medicines work and how patients work) and the professional skills (how pharmacists work) are taught in an integrated fashion in the context of the range of common clinical conditions a patient might experience at different stages of the life cycle.
- Immunological and Inflammatory Disease - Infant Allergy, Atopic Eczema - Infectious Disease - Conjunctivitis, Childhood Infections, Vaccinations - Cancer - Leukaemia - Special Topics - Pregnancy, Breastfeeding and Drugs, Blood and Anaemia
- Immunological and Inflammatory Disease - Asthma, Hay Fever, Contact Dermatitis - Infectious Disease - STD - Cancer - Testicular Cancer, Ovarian Cancer - Special Topics - Accidents and Emergency, Critical Care - Degenerative and Genetic Disease - Cystic Fibrosis - Central Nervous System - Schizophrenia, ADHD, Drug and Alcohol Abuse, Epilepsy, Drugs in Sport - Metabolic and Endocrine Disease - Type 1 Diabetes, Contraception, Fertility, Thyroid
- Immunological and Inflammatory Disease - Inflammatory Bowel Disease, RA, Psoriasis, Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease - Infectious Disease - Urinary Tract Infection, Upper Respiratory Tract Infection, Peptic Ulcer Disease and Gastro-Oesophageal Reflux Disease - Cancer - Breast Cancer, Gastrointestinal Cancer - Special Topics - Travel, Neonatal Care - Degenerative and Genetic Disease - Men's Health, Huntington's, Musculoskeletal (OA/Pain), Incontinence - Central Nervous System - BAD, Anxiety and Depression - Metabolic and Endocrine Disease - Type 2 Diabetes, Gout, Addison's, Lipid Disorders, Menopause, Liver and Nutritional Diseases - Vascular Disease - Hypertension, Ischaemic Heart Disease, Stroke, AF
- Infectious Disease - Pneumonia, Influenza - Cancer - Lung Cancer, Prostate Cancer - Special Topics - Palliative Care - Degenerative and Genetic Disease - Parkinson's Disease - Central Nervous System - Insomnia, Alzheimer's - Metabolic and Endocrine Disease - Osteoporosis - Vascular Disease - Congestive Heart Failure, Deep Vein Thrombosis, Chronic Kidney Disease.
This module aims to introduce students to the profession of pharmacy, its roles and responsibilities and the National Health Service.
An integrated approach will be used to teach the pharmaceutical sciences (how patients and medicines work), clinical therapeutics (how medicines are used) and practice skills (how pharmacists work) around the pharmaceutical care of clinical conditions presenting in parenthood/early years, such as childhood allergy.
They will be supported by a variety of patient-based learning activities.
An integrated approach will be used to build on the previous module and teach the pharmaceutical sciences, clinical therapeutics and practice skills around the pharmaceutical care of clinical conditions presenting in parenthood/early years, such as childhood infections.
They will again be supported by a variety of patient-based learning activities.
An integrated approach will be used to build on the previous modules and teach the pharmaceutical sciences, clinical therapeutics and practice skills around the pharmaceutical care of clinical conditions presenting in young adults, such as Asthma and critical care, integrated with previous conditions studied and building up the complexity of the cases studied.
An integrated approach will be used to build on the previous modules and teach the pharmaceutical sciences, clinical therapeutics and practice skills around the pharmaceutical care of clinical conditions presenting in middle age, such as a range of GI disease and cancer, integrated with previous conditions studied and building up the complexity of the cases studied.
These will be supported by a variety of patient-based learning activities.
An integrated approach will be used to build on the previous modules and teach the pharmaceutical sciences (how patients and medicines work), clinical therapeutics (how medicines are used) and practice skills (how pharmacists work) around the pharmaceutical care of clinical conditions presenting in middle age, such as diabetes and cardiovascular disease, anxiety and depression integrated with previous conditions studied and building up the complexity of the cases studied.
This module provides students with the opportunity to develop their own research question and then to address that question using published material.
The results of this research will be communicated in the form of a poster presentation, a research paper, and a written commentary each of which will be assessed.
An integrated approach will be used to build on the previous modules and teach the pharmaceutical sciences, clinical therapeutics and practice skills around the pharmaceutical care of clinical conditions presenting in older age, such as  COPD and osteoporosis integrated with previous conditions studied and building up the complexity of the cases studied.
They will be supported by a variety of patient-based learning activities, and an opportunity to specialise in an individual topic of interest at Master’s level.
An integrated approach will be used to build on the previous modules and teach the pharmaceutical sciences, clinical therapeutics and practice skills  around the pharmaceutical care of clinical conditions presenting in older age, such as dementia and Parkinson’s disease, integrated with previous conditions studied and building up the complexity of the cases studied.
They will be supported by a variety of patient-based learning activities, and an extended elective placement.
Assessment methods include formal examinations, presentations, course tests and laboratory reports.
In addition, MPharm students will be assessed by observed structured clinical examinations (OSCES) with patients or actors; case-based discussions and care planning; problem-based learning, and a professional portfolio.
These will address the professional requirement that students are assessed on their ability to understand knowledge, place it in context, can demonstrate they have the skills to apply the knowledge in a simulated environment and in practice.
The School teaching staff includes a mixture of pharmaceutical scientists and registered pharmacists.
Local teacher-practitioners will also be involved in MPharm teaching and placement supervision.
Students will have the opportunity to learn through a variety of teaching methods including lectures, which will be supported by workshops, tutorials, seminars, computer-based learning, and practical classes.
In addition students can learn through patient-based learning, problem-based case studies and problem-based practical classes, interprofessional learning, and individual research projects.
Patient-based Learning
MPharm Students can work with patients throughout the course to develop their communication, consultation, and clinical skills such as care planning and clinical decision-making.
This will be taught through placements, within our clinical skills unit, and by engaging in health related outreach projects with the student body of the University and wider community.
Costs relating to placements are outlined in the Placements section.
Problem-based Learning
Students will have the chance to work in smaller groups to evaluate specific problems relating to pharmaceutical sciences or clinical care under the guidance of a tutor to learn about a subject through problem-solving.
Interprofessional Learning
MPharm students can work together with students of other disciplines such as nursing and social care to foster the development of good working relationships and shared care and gain an appreciation that pharmacists are an important part of a healthcare team.
Students have access to the Maltby Suite, a dedicated pharmacy teaching suite combining a flexible teaching and learning area, a mock pharmacy and drug store, a medicines suite, and six consultation rooms.
The Joseph Banks Laboratories provide cutting-edge facilities for students and staff in studying Chemistry, Life Sciences, and Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Science.
Students have access to scientific laboratories and specialist equipment to support their studies.
The School of Pharmacy has excellent links with local hospitals, community pharmacists, and other healthcare professionals, providing opportunities to develop students' clinical learning and skills within a wide range of practices and patient-facing environments throughout the course.
The General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC) is the regulator for pharmacy in Great Britain.
It is the accrediting body for pharmacy education and sets the standards for the initial education and training of pharmacists.
The MPharm degree course at the University of Lincoln has received full accreditation.
Our graduates can progress to their foundation training year, after which they can register as a pharmacist if they meet all of the professional criteria set by the GPhC.
Please note that as the MPharm is a professional degree.
All students studying on an MPharm degree, must abide by the GPhC Standards for Pharmacy Professionals.
Students studying to enter the pharmacy profession must abide by these standards at all times and demonstrate professional conduct in the same way as they will be expected to once they qualify as a registered pharmacist.
MPharm students will have the opportunity to undertake placements within hospital, community, and primary care.
These will be integrated throughout the curriculum to support your learning and development.
Travel, accommodation and living costs are not included in tuition fees.
However students may be eligible to claim towards travel via the TDAE scheme: https://www.nhsbsa.nhs.uk/nhs-learning-support-fund-lsf/travel-and-dual-accommodation-expenses-tdae
Students may also incur additional costs in relation to printing, stationery, and photocopying, as well as any student memberships to relevant professional bodies.
The School of Pharmacy at Lincoln has a close bond with the hospitals in Lincolnshire, the Co-operative pharmacies, and many other health trusts, which provides a wide range of placement opportunities and professional development.
Faatimah Patel
MPharm Pharmacy
Pharmacy graduates may go on to work in a range of clinical environments, including hospitals, primary care and community pharmacies, and as non-medical prescribers.
Other opportunities also exist in a variety of research and development roles within the pharmaceutical industry, and in academia in the UK and abroad.
136 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 3 A Levels to include a minimum of 40 points in Biology or Chemistry plus a minimum of 40 points in a second Science subject.
Chemistry, Biology, Physics, Applied Science, Maths or Further Maths are accepted.
General Studies, Critical Thinking and Extended Project qualifications are not accepted.
A Levels: AAB, to include a minimum grade B in Biology or Chemistry plus a minimum grade B in a second Science subject.
International Baccalaureate: 34 points overall to include Higher Level grade 5 in Biology or Chemistry and Higher Level grade 5 in a second Science subject.
(Biology, Chemistry, Maths, Further Maths, Physics, are accepted).
GCSEs:  Minimum of five GCSEs to include a grade 6 in Maths, a grade 4 in English and Science and two further GCSE's grade at 4 or above.
When you choose Pharmacy in your UCAS application, you will be asked an additional question regarding criminal convictions.
In addition to meeting the academic requirements, overseas students will also be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.5 overall, with a minimum of 6.0 in each element.
The University of Lincoln offer a dedicated support service for overseas students.
If you have any questions about your qualifications, or would like assistance in submitting your application, please contact us at
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/contactus/
136 UCAS Tariff points
This must be achieved from a minimum of 3 A Levels to include a minimum of 40 points in Biology or Chemistry plus a minimum of 40 points in a second Science subject.
All MPharm Pharmacy applicants will be required to attend an interview.
This is a condition for making applicants an offer.
Applicants will receive an invitation to attend an interview via UCAS Track.
Alternative arrangements will be considered for applicants who cannot attend.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/phlphlub:
V500
The Philosophy degree at Lincoln offers students the opportunity to study these questions and others through the lens of cutting-edge contemporary philosophical research, as well as the writings of the great philosophers, such as Plato, Descartes, Nietzsche, Marx, and Wittgenstein.
The course makes high intellectual demands of students, and aims to develop the ability to think clearly, to construct and defend arguments, and be willing to explore a range of approaches to different topics.
Subject ranked top 5 overall in the UK*
Study the work of Plato, Descartes, Nietzsche, Marx, and Wittgenstein
Hear from experts at the Annual Philosophy Lecture
*Guardian University Guide 2024 (out of 43 ranking institutions)
The Philosophy programme at the University of Lincoln prides itself on offering a high level of philosophical training in both the 'analytical' and 'continental' traditions that have dominated the discipline since the early twentieth century, allowing students to find out what best caters to their own aims and interests.
The programme is designed to give students the tools to think seriously and independently about major philosophical questions.
Students can develop valuable skills in reasoning, analysis, creative problem solving, and communication, which are relevant for a wide range of careers.
Over the duration of the programme, students are expected to develop an understanding of all the major fields in contemporary philosophy, including ethics, metaphysics, philosophy of mind, philosophy of language, epistemology, logic, philosophy of religion, philosophy of science, existentialism, legal and political philosophy, animal ethics, philosophy of love and sex, Indian philosophy, and philosophy of psychiatry and mental illness.
Students are also introduced to major figures in the history of philosophy, such as Students are also introduced to major figures in the history of philosophy, such as Plato, Aristotle, Nagarjuna, Descartes, Nietzsche, Wittgenstein, Sartre, and Simone De Beauvoir.
Studying original texts from great minds both past and present can help students learn to form, develop, and defend their own answers.
Students will explore these areas using the philosophical method of logical analysis and reasoned argument, and from the outset will be encouraged to develop their own views, and to critically assess the views of others.
As Philosophy will be a new subject for many students, the first year of the degree offers a chance to study a wide range of modules, with increasing specialisation in years two and three.
The course is mainly delivered through a series of lectures and seminars.
Each module usually consists of lectures in which topics are introduced and key concepts and ideas are examined and explained.
Lectures also introduce the reading required for seminars.
Seminars are used to support lectures and are an opportunity for students to meet with a tutor in smaller groups and discuss the philosophical topic under consideration in greater depth.
Occasionally workshops are used to work through a particular issue, question, or topic.
This module aims to support students in their adjustment to the demands of higher education by equipping students with the skills necessary to communicate their learning in an academic environment.
The core objectives of the module are to develop students’ research and writing skills and to avoid plagiarism by correctly referencing their sources.
Skills learned and dispositions developed on this module can prove vital for students' successful study throughout their degrees and afterwards.
The purpose of this module is to enable students to examine claims about the existence of God and the nature of religious faith.
Among the major thinkers whose contributions to the philosophy of religion we will consider are Aquinas, Descartes, Leibniz, Hume, Kant, Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, Freud, and Wittgenstein.
Issues students can consider are whether religious statements are meaningful, whether the existence of evil counts strongly, or even conclusively, against the existence of God, whether religious beliefs are merely a projection of human desires, and whether the idea of life having a meaning stands and falls with the belief in God.
This module aims to introduce students to some of the central questions in metaphysics and the philosophy of mind.
For example: What is the self?
What, if anything, makes you the same person you were when you were five years old?
To what extent is the world of everyday experience mind-dependent?
Is free will compatible with determinism – the view that every event is causally necessitated by a prior event?
What is the mind, and how does it relate to the body?
Are we just highly complicated physical objects, or is the mind an immaterial or spiritual substance?
Philosophy is not just a fascinating academic subject.
It raises profound questions about the human condition and it is not surprising then that a contemporary medium like film frequently deals with philosophical issues.
Philosophy through Film is a survey module in philosophy, where popular topics in various sub-fields in the discipline are studied and discussed as they are illustrated in a selection of films.
Topics covered come from aesthetics, metaphysics, ethics, and the philosophy of mind.
This introductory modules introduces students to some of the most fascinating and fundamental questions of philosophy.
This module is designed to provide students with a broad introduction to some of the key issues in the theory of knowledge (epistemology).
The main focus of the module is the nature of knowledge – what is it, and what, if anything, can really be known?
This leads on to questions about how knowledge relates to truth, belief, and justification, and to discussion of different kinds of knowledge (e.g., perceptual, religious, moral).
The purpose of this module is to develop students understanding of some of the major issues in contemporary philosophy of mind and artificial intelligence.
What kind of entity is the mind?
How does it relate to the brain?
Can we explain consciousness in physical terms?
Could a machine ever be conscious?
Are we headed for the Singularity—the point in the future at which machine intelligence overtakes human intelligence and goes on to design exponentially more intelligent machines?
If so, how intelligent can machine intelligence get?
Where does the mind stop and machinery start?
For example, could a neural implant or even a smartphone form part of your mind?
Are we ourselves thinking machines?
Language enables us to communicate about ourselves and the world around us.
However, it is not clear how language achieves this nor is it clear what influence language has on these activities.
Therefore, in this module we will examine language itself.
We will try to clarify its nature and how it works.
This module builds on the first-year module ‘What is Knowledge?’ to provide students with a more in-depth exploration of epistemology.
Students can examine a range of issues in contemporary epistemology, including: the nature of epistemic justification (the internalism/externalism debate, the debates between foundationalists and coherentists), the analysis of knowledge, the role of contextual considerations in dealing with scepticism, social epistemology, virtue epistemology, a priori knowledge, and epistemic naturalism.
The purpose of this module is to enable students to think critically about a range of issues in animal ethics.
Do humans have obligations to other animals and, if so, what are those obligations?
Do animals matter morally or are they just things?
Are animals persons?
What follows ethically if animals are things?
Does the property status of animals entail that animals cannot be anything other than things?
What are some of the leading contemporary moral theories about animal ethics?
Does the property status of animals make it impossible to apply the principle of equal consideration to animal interests?
Can we justify the use of animals in science?
Can we justify the use of animals for food?
Can we justify the use of animals in other contexts, such as hunting?
Is pet-ownership morally justifiable?
What is the relationship between animal ethics and environmental ethics?
How should we evaluate issues of animal ethics from various religious perspectives?
Is the contemporary animal “movement” sound in terms of its methods?
This is an extended piece of philosophical work that gives students opportunity to demonstrate that they have acquired the skills of critical thinking and philosophical analysis.
This module gives students the opportunity to engage with some key issues and contemporary debates in key areas of philosophy, such as epistemological relativism, the nature of consciousness, the nature of causation in science, the nature of the self.
The precise topics addressed   will vary from year to year and students will have input into the choice of topics.
The aim of the module is to explore in-depth some significant contemporary philosophical issues and to enable students to develop and enhance their key philosophical and debating skills.
The purpose of this module is to enable students to examine claims made about what, if anything, makes life meaningful by some of the major figures in the history of philosophy (e.g., Plato, Aristotle, St Augustine, Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, and Marx).
The module begins by considering the Question of Meaning itself.
Is it intelligible?
What is it to seek meaning in life?
Is God necessary for life as a whole to have meaning?
If so, and if God doesn’t exist, what is an appropriate response to life’s “absurdity” or lack of meaning?
Is suicide an ethically defensible response?
Or can individual lives have meaning even if life as a whole has none?
Could a life be meaningful even if it were entirely occupied with selfish or vicious activities?
Could, for example, the life of a torturer be meaningful?
Or must our lives have an ethical resonance to be meaningful?
We will also consider nihilist views that the conditions necessary for meaning do not obtain, and metaethical debates about the nature of value in general.
This module gives students an opportunity to apply what they have learned in terms of philosophical methodology and analysis  to issues involving political and legal institutions.
For example, most people use concepts such as rights or justice in their everyday life, but few could articulate what those concepts mean.
This makes discourse about political and legal matters difficult because there is no clarity, let alone agreement, about the concepts being used.
This module builds on the second-year module ‘Moral Philosophy’, focusing in particular on the central questions in metaethics: Do moral terms and judgements refer to moral properties, and if so, what are these properties like?
Are any moral judgements true, and if so, are they true objectively, in virtue of moral properties that exist in the world?
If there are objective moral truths, how can we know what they are?
What implications do theories of moral reasoning and moral motivation have for the question of whether there are objective truths in ethics?
Friedrich Nietzsche famously proclaimed that ‘the death of God’ would lead to a period of ‘nihilism’ – the view that life lacks meaning and value.
But Nietzsche also saw the death of God as a liberating opportunity to move beyond traditional moral values, which he regarded as life-denying and stifling the potential of human beings.
A central aim of Nietzsche’s philosophy, therefore, is to make his readers question the value of traditional morality.
Are kindness, compassion, altruism, charity, and equality really valuable?
Do such values promote the cultivation of great cultures and great human beings?
Or are they simply what is most useful to, what Nietzsche called, ‘the herd’?
All the major themes of Nietzsche’s philosophy will be considered: art, tragedy, ‘genealogy,’ master and slave moralities, guilt, truth, self-creation, the Übermensch (or ‘superman’), the ‘higher’ individual, life-affirmation, and eternal recurrence.
The aim of this module is to examine some interesting puzzles in the ontology, epistemology, and metaphysics of biology.
The module will address such questions as: How does natural selection explain the traits of organisms?
How does the ‘scientific method’ support biological science’s success?
What are the appropriate aims for conservation biology?
Can culture evolve?
Is there an objective class of conditions that qualify as ‘disease’?
Are there laws of evolution; and if not, is evolutionary biology a science?
Are there biological natural kinds?
Can Darwinism explain anything interesting about human mental and social life?
This module explores a variety of questions relating to the concept of evil, and introduces students to a range of philosophical theories of the nature of evil.
Students can explore the language and ontology of evil, the concepts of ‘radical’ and ‘banal’ evil, and examine how the existence of evil is accounted for by key figures in the history of philosophy.
Typically, questions to be considered include: Is evil an irreducibly theological concept?
Are notions of evil relative to individuals or cultures?
Is evil a positively existing force or is it the absence of some quality, as darkness is the absence of light?
Why are humans capable of wickedness?
This module explores a range of philosophical questions that arise in relation to love and sexual desire.
Can love be defined, or does it belong to the realm of the ineffable?
Is love inherently irrational?
Is it reducible to the reproductive or sexual drive?
Do we love the other for his/her own sake, or is love always self-serving?
Are jealousy and possessiveness really the enemy of successful love?
Does all love stem from need or lack?
What, if anything, is the difference between love and infatuation?
And is, as Plato held, love a form of enslavement?
In this module, students can address such questions through the lens of some of the greatest works in the Western philosophical tradition.
We shall mostly consider reciprocal romantic love and investigate, among other things, its capacity to confer meaning and purpose upon life.
We shall also explore the Freudian view that love involves regression to a situation in childhood in which we were perfectly safe, the search for love essentially being an attempt to recover this earlier form of security or wholeness.
Can this need for wholeness ever be fully and stably fulfilled, or is, as Sartre argued, the project of love impossible?
In addition, we shall reflect upon the nature of pornography, sadomasochism, and sexual perversion.
It appears that everything we do or think is in time.
We live temporal lives.
However, it is not entirely clear quite what the nature of time is, nor how it bears on our lives.
Therefore, in this module we will investigate time itself.
As will become clear in these investigations, a proper understanding of time, requires reflection on various aspects of ourselves and our environments.
Meet Jordan Waite, a BA (Hons) Philosophy graduate, as he shares how his degree prepared him for a graduate role at Rolls-Royce.
This course use a variety of assessment methods including essays, podcasts, student-led presentations, and in-class exams.
You can also take advantage of our range of modern study areas located across campus, including learning lounges which give you the opportunity to study alone or with your friends and coursemates
Students within the School of Humanities and Heritage have the opportunity to spend a term studying at one of the University’s partner institutions in North America or Europe.
Students will be expected to cover their own transport, accommodation, and living costs while studying abroad, and places are allocated competitively, subject to academic criteria.
The thing that has stuck with me most from the course is that we are being taught to be philosophers rather than simply remembering what others have said.
Molly O’Hanrahan
BA (Hons) Philosophy
The range of fundamental skills involved in the study of philosophy, such as critical thinking and the ability to analyse and communicate complex ideas clearly and logically, can equip graduates for a wide range of careers.
The strong research focus in our advanced modules, and the fact that students can research and write an independent dissertation during the third year, aim to develop highly transferable research skills.
Students will be expected to cover their own transport, accommodation, and living costs if studying abroad.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/clmclmub:
W600
Photography is a career that could take you in many directions - from the commercial to the artistic to the academic - with each path looking for photographers with a unique way of interpreting our communities and environment.
On this course you'll learn the core practical skills and techniques you need to produce professional-standard photography, from developing your ideas and understanding your audience, to solving creative problems through collaboration and individual practice.
Working with our industry-standard equipment and facilities, you'll be given a choice of pathway including still, moving, digital, and analogue images, creating projects built around themes like identity, place, documentary, and fictions.
You'll also get the opportunity to work with professional clients on live briefs and enter international photography competitions.
Specialist photography studios and equipment
Take part in international student photography competitions
Professional briefs from brands and organisations
Opportunities to self publish your work
Photography at Lincoln is taught by award-winning industry practitioners and research-active academics.
Programme Leader Graeme Oxby was Format Photography Festival Photo Show 2019 award winner and an exhibitor at the Indian Photo Festival presented by National Geographic 2019.
Tom Martin was Taylor Wessing Portrait Prize finalist in 2011 and In Conflict - Visible White Photo Prize finalist in 2017.
Students also learn from academic staff who are often engaged in world-leading or internationally excellent research.
Key theoretical and critical issues will be explored, in addition to the ways these themes underpin contemporary photography practice.
Students will learn to apply practical, creative, and technical approaches to create fully realised contemporary photography projects.
As the programme progresses, students will have increasing autonomy in deciding the basis and form of the work they're creating.
In each year, modules cover methods and materials, critical theory, and professional practice.
Modules can include Contemporary Photographic Practices; Dynamic Visual Forms; Becoming an Effective Researcher; Extended Practice; and Critical Research Project.
The first year offers an introduction to methods of producing and distributing photography, as well as a critical understanding of lens-based media and technologies within contemporary contexts.
During the second year, students can develop and refine their approach selecting assignments that reflect their interests.
In the second year module Photography and Collaboration, students work on live photography briefs issued by partner companies and institutions.
In the final year, students are expected to produce a major body of work in their chosen area, demonstrating a thorough understanding of the medium, and produce a final exhibition of work.
Key Concepts in Photography provides incisive content that covers the essential critical underpinnings that have shaped photographic development and discourse since its inception.
You will explore the themes and conceptual ideas that contributed to modernist and postmodern photography and examine semiotics as an analytical framework.
The syllabus will build on these foundational ideas to engage with debates on representation, identity, power and aesthetics.
In this practical module, you will be introduced to, and make work informed by the theme of Place.
You will have the opportunity to create three short photography projects which may include:
Human impact on the landscape
The urban landscape 
Heritage within the landscape
By undertaking these projects you will gain knowledge of the historical development of critical, ecological and theoretical themes within photography of place and understand how ethical and creative innovations influence today's generation of landscape image makers.
You will learn a range of practical and technical strategies and methods in order to create work that is informed by research and critical analysis and presented in the context of contemporary audiences.
In this module, you will be introduced to the theme of documentary within the context of photography.
you will gain knowledge of the historical development of critical and theoretical themes within photojournalism and documentary photography and understand how ethical and creative innovations influence today's generation of documentary image makers.
You undertake three short practical projects and learn a range of practical and technical strategies and methods in order to create work within the documentary theme which relate to a contemporary audience.
Photography and Fictions will introduce you to methods of practice and critical thought that further your understanding of narrative, ideology and visual language across multiple genres of photography.
You will consider key historical and contemporary milestones in the construction of fictional photography,  visual metaphor and semiotics.
You will study and create diverse photographic responses to staged photography, commercially informed advertising practice and sophisticated sequenced narrative.
You will gain an understanding of how ethical and creative innovations influence today's generation of image makers.
Through regular critical lectures and practical workshops you will learn a range of skills, technical strategies and methodologies.
In this module you will be introduced to ideas, techniques and equipment relating to portraiture in photography.
Through a series of lectures you will be introduced to the work of  specific practitioners which you will respond to during the taught sessions and in your own time.
You  will learn a range of practical and technical strategies and methods in order to create work that is informed by research and critical analysis and presented in the context of contemporary audiences.
There will be three short projects which may include:
Studio portrait photography
Location Portrait Photography
The notion of the self in photographic portraiture
While studying ‘Writing about photography’ you will learn the art of academic writing in relation to photography.
Using a scaffolded learning approach you will be taken through each stage of writing an academic essay in an applied and sequential manner.
Taking the position that photography is both document and fiction the module will also explore approaches to writing about photography that adhere to formal academic conventions while remaining open to stylistic experimentation and diversity.
‘Writing About photography’ encourages a community approach to learning through collaboration.
In addition, guided learning will provide individual guidance to help support the structuring of academic essay writing on a one to one basis.
Rethinking Photography encourages you to consider photography beyond genre, to reflect on the nature of lens based image making as a holistic and ever evolving medium of data transmission.
Through a varied, syllabus, you will produce multiple practice outcomes, informed by appropriate research and reflection.
During the semester you will develop practical skills through regular workshops and critical engagement through thematically diverse lectures and reflective seminars designed to enmesh ‘thinking’ and ‘doing’.
Rethinking photography aims to develop your confidence in a range of photographic and intellectual skills, methodologies and informed approaches that best reflect the changing face of the photographically derived image in the Information age.
In this module you will engage with a live brief from a number of real world clients as a framework for exploring collaboration in photography.
You will actively develop your  knowledge and practical understanding of contemporary commercial photography and future employment opportunities within photography and related creative industries by producing a personal journal to take forward into 3rd year professional practice modules.
The ‘Photography Project’ module provides an opportunity for autonomy and independent learning through the creation of a self initiated photographic project of your own choice.
You will create work that you are passionate about, produced through the application of key practical skills and critical methodologies gained in your studies so far.
You will be supported by staff members to create engaging, audience facing photographic work for exhibition, providing a springboard for further progress in your third year of study.
The syllabus explores contemporary photographic practice in relation to a themed symposium - a space for collaboration, dialogue and the exploration of contemporary photographic discourse.
This module focuses on skills in presentation,  research and development processes, public speaking skills and further exploration of dialogues within photography.
A substantial proportion of the syllabus is student-led, with frequent presentations embedded in the programme to support personal and professional development.
Researrch Themes in Contemporary Photography is delivered online and builds upon your knowledge of how to write about images, and think about photographs, from a critical perspective.
The module progresses by addressing different research themes in contemporary photography each week.
Through the process of researching key texts in the history of photographic theory, you will be able to interpret the practice of contemporary photographers working with these themes, with greater depth and complexity.
The aim of this module is to provide you with an understanding of the major debates that continue to inform contemporary photographic practice.
In turn, this will provide you with the knowledge and confidence to situate your photographic practice into an established critical framework.
This module will give you the opportunity to  research and reflect on how photography and related creative industries companies are structured, network, operate and function.
You will employ a range of professional skills and research approaches to enable you to compile a case study that will help you to realise your own pathway to graduate success.
In this module you will develop a body of work that spans your final year of undergraduate study.
You will propose, research, and develop a self-initiated piece based on your own interests.
Throughout the semester you will be supported by a tutor in a mentoring role, offering regular opportunities for guidance and formative feedback.
Production on your final year project continues in the ‘Major Project Conclusion and Exhibition’ module.
Following on from ‘Major Project Research and Development’ this module is the culmination of your undergraduate studies, bringing together your skills, techniques, and critical understanding into an expansive, independently led project.
By utilising appropriate techniques, demonstrating a clear understanding of genre and audience codes, and supporting your work with academically rigorous structure you will create a body of practice you can be proud of and provide yourself with the strongest possible footing for your future career.
Throughout this module you will receive continued one on one guidance and support from a member of staff best positioned to help you to get the most from your project.
In addition to your individually chosen project outcomes, you work will also be part of a collective, public facing exhibition.
Professional Photography Practice aims to build on the knowledge gained in Enterprise and Employment Case Studies to enable you to build appropriate tools to support your ability to work in photography and related creative industries.
In a range of workshops, you will develop a creative CV, artist's statement, website and social media sites.
In addition, you will prepare a portfolio of images and apply to open calls and competitions.
The module will also provide you with the opportunity to prepare effectively and professionally for life in the creative industries after university, exploring potential careers and options ensuring that you are fully prepared to connect with potential employers, clients or further your academic studies.
The Critical Essay module presents an opportunity for you to identify and independently research a topic of your own choice.
Through a process of self-directed study, you will produce a written academic text, that draws upon the skills of academic writing and contextual knowledge developed on previous modules, the Critical Essay module represents a detailed analysis of your chosen research topic.
Potentially, the subject of your critical essay will share common interests with the themes addressed in your primary photographic practice, helping you to develop a stronger critical framework in your photography.
The Dissertation module presents an opportunity for you to identify and independently research a topic of your choice, over both semesters of the final year of the programme.
Drawing upon the skills of academic writing and contextual knowledge developed on previous modules, the Dissertation module represents a rigorous analysis of your chosen research topic.
The dissertation module affords you the opportunity to gain an in depth understanding in a photographic field of your choice, often sharing common interests with the themes addressed in your independent practical projects – strengthening the critical underpinnings of your personal practice.
In the Photography Impacts module, you will identify and independently research an exhibition, festival, publication, collective or movement that has had a considerable influence on the development and evolution of photographic practice and culture.
Through a process of self-directed study, you will be required to produce a case-study that draws upon the skills of academic writing and research developed on previous modules.
Assessment is 100 per cent coursework.
The programme is assessed on the basis of coursework which comprises project work and written submissions, and consists of both formative and summative assessment.
Formative feedback guides students on the process of work and takes the form of group and individual discussion.
Tutor feedback provides students with guidance on their performance during each module.
Summative assessment occurs at the end of each module.
Student work is assessed against clearly defined criteria and learning outcomes.
A summative mark is awarded based upon evidence that all criteria have been complied with and all aims and learning outcomes for the assignment have been achieved.
The University of Lincolns policy is to ensure that staff return assessments to students promptly.
Explore the brilliant work of our students in this virtual degree show.
Students on this course have access to a range of specialist facilities and equipment.
W e have a fully equipped photographic studio with hi-glide lighting track and wireless controlled flash units.
We have a film processing area and darkroom with enlargers for 35mm, medium, and large format printing.
Students have access to a dedicated print finishing space which houses our Epson and Hasselblad film scanners as well as a large format Canon photo printer.
Students are able to access a number of specialist Apple computer labs and each student currently has free access to the Adobe Creative Suite (Including Photoshop, Lightroom, and Premiere Pro) for the duration of their studies.
Students can benefit from the School's expertise and facilities in sound design and digital film production.
They currently have access to Adobe Creative Cloud suite software for the duration of their studies via the media and design labs.
Explore our facilities here.
Studying photography at the University of Lincoln was great as it had excellent facilities and the staff helped to further my knowledge on documentary photography.
It played a vital part for me to get onto a Master's course and to further my career in the creative industries.
Matthew Snellin
BA (Hons) Photography
Graduates of this course have worked with top names and at international events.
Graduate Hannah Wilson is currently working at Hello!
magazine; Rebecca Jones is working for PHLY post production, editing images for Jaguar Land Rover and Rolls Royce; Craig Clayton was shortlisted for the Association of Photographers Student Awards in 2017; and Dan Medhurst has worked with clients including Adidas, Burberry, Coca-Cola, Diesel, Sony Music, and The Guardian .
Graduate Ema Johnston's work has been featured in Loupe Magazine and The Royal Photographic Society magazine.
She is currently working in the photography studio at Liberty London.
Award-winning photographer, filmmaker, and co-founder of Electric Egg, Steve combines technical expertise and powerful storytelling to explore the deep connections between people, place, and history.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/sespesub:
C601
Physical education is an important vehicle for improving health, behaviour, sports participation, and performance, and as such continues to have political and educational significance across the UK.
Lincoln's BSc (Hons) Physical Education and Sport degree is a multi-disciplinary programme.
It utilises current research, policy, and practice in order to develop the knowledge, skills, and understanding relevant to the physical education and sport sector.
The course has been designed for those who have a desire to work with young people in schools or youth sport settings, and engagement in real-world activities is integral to the programme.
You can develop your teaching abilities, knowledge, and experience of curriculum activities, while making the most of opportunities to gain experience through practical sessions and placements in schools.
Conduct research alongside our academic team
Dedicated physical education laboratories and practical spaces
Partnered with Lincoln City FC and a range of external partners
Learn from our expert academic team members
Subject area ranked in the top 10 for teaching in the UK*
*National Student Survey 2024 (out of 83 ranking institutions)
First-year modules are designed to provide you  with a foundation in teaching and pedagogy, school and youth sport development, social science, sport science, and research.
You'll also be encouraged to develop key transferable skills.
During the second and third years, you can choose from a range of optional modules and tailor your learning to personal interests and career aspirations.
Teaching is delivered in a variety of ways including lectures, seminars, practical sessions, lab sessions, workshops, and tutorials.
Throughout the course you may have opportunities to hear from guest speakers.
Previous speakers have included Lincoln Seated Volleyball Club, Lincoln Invictus Club; and School Games Organisers, Lincolnshire.
This module is an opportunity for you to explore skills which will underpin core module content in Years 2 and 3.
Across the module, you can build the professional skills required to work with young people in an educational environment as either a teacher or coach, preparing them for the next stage of their career.
A high-quality physical education or coaching programme can develop a range of physical and cognitive skills within a child that can subsequently encourage positive life experiences.
These experiences can include confidence development, the adoption of a healthy lifestyle, alongside experiencing achievement whilst fulfilling potential.
Through theoretical and practical experiences, including a school placement, this module aims to develop the knowledge and applied understanding of concepts and practices that can support child development.
This module aims to examine the structure and function of the human body during sport and exercise.
It will seek to address the physiological, biomechanical and psychological determinants of performance, with the aim of enabling students to develop an understanding of the fundamental principles involved and introducing students to a range of practical skills for measuring performance in the laboratory and/or field.
On this module, students have the opportunity to develop useful study skills for the sport and exercise scientist and benefit from an introduction to the underpinning concepts of scientific study and research methods.
This module aims to enable students to benefit fully from the higher education learning environment and develop their reflective practice, alongside an understanding of the philosophy of science as related to scientific study in sport and exercise.
This module aims to introduce students to the field of sociology as applied to the study of sport and physical education.
Students will be encouraged to think critically about sport and its place in society and in education.
In particular, subjects such as the stratification of society (i.e.
by ‘race’, sex, religion, class, age, ability etc.) and the sporting experiences of different social groups in the community and in schools, can be investigated.
This module encourages students to think critically about sport, PE and their (reciprocal) relationships with politics, the media and broader social processes such as sportisation and commercialisation.
This module aims to build directly on the key concepts delivered at level 4 through the Research Methods 1st year module.
Advancing an understanding of research enquiry and the application of ethical research practice, the module aims to introduce a wide range of methodologies applicable to exercise, physical activity, health and sport performance research.
Enabling independent research activities, the development of analytical skills should be evolved through applied evidence-based practice.
This module aims to provide an introduction to the key concepts in education, enabling students to begin to develop and apply their knowledge, understanding and skills within this area.
Students will have the opportunity to reflect on the changing theories and practices in secondary education and can develop their knowledge of the curriculum, behaviour and classroom management in education, primarily relating to secondary school settings.
Students are encouraged to consider psychological perspectives in education, as well as offering students the opportunity to examine historical and political aspects of education through literature and practice.
Students have the opportunity to develop and reflect on their practice and that of teachers in the department whilst on placements in local secondary schools.
This module aims to further develop students’ knowledge of the pedagogical concepts first covered in year one and how these can be applied to the teaching of aesthetic activities at Key Stages 3 and 4.
Students may utilise this knowledge and understanding whilst on placement in secondary schools.
In addition, there will be a specific emphasis on applying safe practice, knowledge of movement and physical literacy.
The specific objectives of the module are to:
- Utilise core principles of teaching within aesthetic activities.
- Provide the opportunity to develop knowledge, skills and understanding of aesthetic activities in the National Curriculum at Key Stages 3 and 4.
- Give students the chance to enhance their knowledge of safe practice related to the teaching of aesthetic activities.
- Provide the opportunity to develop student understanding of principles of human movement and physical literacy and engage in the practical application of these to aesthetic activities.
This module aims to address why an understanding of core fitness components is essential for the coach in practice, investigates key training principles and how these can be integrated into coaching session plans, and seeks to explore applied testing and training approaches to evaluate individual and group performance ability.
Each of these aspects can be considered in the context of coaching experience, practice and application.
This optional module provides an opportunity for students to build on knowledge gained at level one within the Foundations in Sport and Exercise Science module.
Students can develop their understanding of the theory underpinning the subject, as well as field-based performance analysis strategies and their application to assessment of practical sport.
This introductory health module is designed to enable students to develop their knowledge of the positive role of ‘physical activity’ in society.
A major emphasis will be placed on identifying the key factors involved in determining health status; addressing the link between sedentary behaviour and health.
This module aims to build on the knowledge and concepts developed within the level one module Sport Development Environment and enable students to advance their understanding of the central strategies and policies in sport development, physical education and school sport.
The central aim of this module is to allow students the opportunity to develop their knowledge and understanding of major sport policies and strategies and to explore sport provision at a local level, in order to think analytically about the policy process and the complexities associated with policy implementation.
The module is designed to encourage students to learn about the concept of project management and to understand how it relates to sport.
The Lincolnshire Event Safety Partnership guidance will be used within this module to provide students with an opportunity to develop realistic and local knowledge about project management within a contemporary setting.
This module aims to introduce and develop knowledge of key concepts and theories that describe and explain the importance of psychology in sport, exercise and physical education settings.
This module aims to provide students with a formal introduction to social theory and its application to the study of sociological problems in sport and PE.
It is intended to build on the level one module, Sociological Issues in Sport and PE, by providing the opportunity to examine a variety of topics in sport from different theoretical perspectives.
Students are encouraged to understand that all sociological observations are guided by theory, while also comparing and critiquing the range of approaches to sport introduced in the module.
A selection of sociological sporting phenomena will be used to illustrate the importance of theory in guiding any sociological study.
This optional placement year will provide students with the opportunity to practice full-time in a professional sport setting*, with the aim of enhancing the student's practical skills and level of employability.
The placement will also provide the student with the opportunity to practically apply the skills and knowledge developed on their prior modules within a 'real-life' sport and exercise science and/or strength and conditioning context.
Due to the nature of placement it will be of particular relevance to those students targeting a career in the applied support of professional athletes.
*Only a limited number of placements are available
This module offers students the opportunity to apply the knowledge, skills and experience gained in years one and two to the teaching of net wall games and individual activities, such as badminton and athletics.
The aim is to further develop teaching skills and methods but with specific emphasis on utilising these in order teach the skills and techniques involved in individual activities and net wall games at Key Stages 3 and 4.
The specific objectives of the module are to:
- Utilise core principles of teaching to individual activities and net wall games.
- Provide the opportunity to develop and apply pedagogic content knowledge, skills and understanding of individual activities and net wall games in the National Curriculum at Key Stages 3 and 4.
- Give students the chance to enhance their knowledge of health and safety issues related to the teaching of individual activities and net wall games.
- Provide the opportunity to develop students’ ability to utilise methods of problem-based learning and critical reflection to further their teaching skills.
The Dissertation module provides an opportunity for an in-depth study of a particular topic and to demonstrate original and critical thought.
The module gives students the opportunity to develop an understanding of the relationship between physical activity/inactivity and population health.
This module will seek to develop knowledge on the role of ‘preventive healthcare’ (rather than treatment) and includes a central focus which explores current UK government-supported policy in this area.
This module aims to provide students with an opportunity to explore notions of disability within the context of sport and physical activity.
The programme aims to place competing models of disability, theories of disability and disabling barriers at the centre of a reflective investigation of sport and activity provision for people with disabilities.
The module aims to focus upon private, public and voluntary sectors with a particular emphasis on National Governing Bodies, school and community sport providers.
Coaching or teaching people with disabilities will be explored using the medium of inclusive games and activities which focus on pedagogy; health; safety; and organizational considerations, in addition to a placement opportunity.
The aim being to create an Inclusive coaching or teaching climate which is affirming, open for all and conducive to learning.
This module aims to mobilise the knowledge and skills gained in years one and two by engaging students in the critical analysis of contemporary issues in Physical Education.
The central aims of the module are to build on students’ existing understanding of the philosophical, political and sociological components of physical education by critically engaging with research and reflecting on their practical experiences within other modules.
This module aims to give students the opportunity to apply sport and exercise science concepts to coaching practice in order to enhance performance and enjoyment in participants.
Students will have the opportunity to learn how to develop an effective working alliance with clients, with ethics and competency central to the learning experience and models of applied practice.
This final year module will continue to build on learning from Sociological Issues in Physical Education and Sport and Sport, Physical Education, & Social Theory to provide students with opportunities to apply their developing sociological toolbox to range of social justice issues that span sport, PA and PE.
The module will take an intersectional approach and consider subjugated histories, feminist theories, decolonisation, and social justice frameworks to engage and equip students to challenge embedded assumptions and disrupt practice to re-imagine sport, physical education, and physical activity to be more equitable for all people.
The module introduces the role of the practitioner within a sports coaching and physical education context, exploring a range of pedagogical strategies to develop and support participants individually and/or collectively in their learning of new skills through games-based activities.
Students will study the core educational principles associated with practice: educational theories of learning, planning, communication, differentiation, progression, inclusion, assessment and reflection; all of which can be applied to various age groups, abilities, and situations.
The specific objectives of the module are to encourage critical examination of the nature of strategic management within sport, critique its role in contemporary sport and the practical difficulties in formulating and implementing strategy, and consider appropriate developments in improving the performance of sport related operations and activities.
You can attend school-based placements across all three years of the course.
In the first year, you will complete ten hours in a primary school setting supporting physical education and sport in lessons or through extra-curricular activities.
In years 2 and 3 you can complete six-eight whole day placements in secondary schools where you will embed yourself in the day-to-day life of a physical education department helping to support and teach lessons.
All placements are arranged locally by the University.
Placements are usually carried out in pairs.
Any essential travel costs will be reimbursed.
You will need to have an enhanced DBS certificate which will be arranged and funded through the University.
This is a compulsory requirement to enable you to work with children.
You will also undergo safeguarding training before starting and placements in a 5-18 setting.
There may also be opportunities to undertake a work placement year as part of the course.
The theoretical and practical elements of the course have given me an insight into what it is like to work within a school setting.
Daniel Watson
Physical Education and Sports Student
You'll be assessed through a range of methods which are dependent upon whether the module is practical, theoretical, contextual or vocational.
This may include presentations, critical reflections, portfolios, exams, practical assessment within schools and a research project.
Our ongoing partnership with Lincoln City FC offers you opportunities to undertake work placement or intern opportunities, as well as providing a potential pathway for full-time employment after you graduate.
Many Lincoln graduates are employed within the organisation in roles spanning coaching, physiotherapy, sports science, and performance analysis.
Opportunities exist for you to conduct your own independent research and to work alongside research-active academic staff on projects at local and national levels.
Our research team have conducted studies on topics including school sports partnerships, disability in sport, and gifted and talented development in young people.
You'll also be able to apply theory to practical settings, including in school placements.
Our Human Performance Centre offers excellent facilities to meet your academic needs.
We have dedicated practical and teaching spaces including physiology laboratories, a psychology laboratory, consultation suites, and specific practical spaces to support exercise instruction and referral work.
This programme is endorsed by The Chartered Institute for the Management of Sport and Physical Activity (CIMSPA) for Working with Children.
This endorsement demonstrates the University's commitment to ensuring students' teaching and learning is aligned to industry standards.
For a student to register with CIMSPA and arrange certification for professional standards gained during this degree, a small administration charge would be required.
Previous students have successfully progressed on to school-centred teacher training or PGCEs to become PE teachers and opportunities are available both in Lincoln and throughout the UK.
Alternatively, you may choose to progress to Master’s programmes in education, enter the Armed Forces, or work in sport development.
This course is perfect for anyone interested in teaching physical education.
It combines both practical and theoretical skills which are needed to be successful in the physical education world.
Madeline Bogosian
Physical Education and Sport student
GCSE's:  Minimum of five at grade 4 or above, which must include English, Maths and a Science or sport related subject.
GCSE's:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English, Maths and Science .

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/gepgepum:
F802
MGeog Physical Geography explores environmental change and sustainability from local to global scales.
During the degree students develop many core transferable skills including data analysis, field and laboratory work, working with practitioners in placements, undertaking and presenting research, and working with Geographical Information Systems (GIS).
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications to include 40 points in a Geography or related subject.
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points including 40 points from 15 credits in Geography or a related subject from the fields of History, Philosophy, Theology, Languages, Literature, Culture or Social Sciences, Information, Communications and Technology, Science and Mathematics or Agriculture, Horticultures, and Animal Care.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall to include a Higher Level 5 in Geography or related subject: (from the fields of the Arts, studies in Language and Literature, Sciences, Mathematics or Individuals and Societies).
A Level: BCC to BBB to include a Grade B in Geography or related subject: (History, English, Economics, Sociology, a modern Language, Psychology, Mathematics, Biology, Chemistry, Geology, Mathematics)
BTEC Extended Diploma in Geography or a related subject: DDM (Applied Science, Computing, Engineering, Environmental Sustainability, Information Technology, Pharmaceutical Science) (Please include units on application)
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 104 to 120 UCAS points to be achieved from 45 Level 3 credits, including 40 points from 15 credits in Geography or a related subject (from the fields of History, Philosophy, Theology, Languages, Literature, Culture or Social Sciences, Information, Communications and Technology, Science and Mathematics or Agriculture, Horticultures and Animal Care)

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/phyphyub:
Part-time study is available
F300
The knowledge and problem-solving skills of physicists are vital to new discoveries and advances in science and technology.
This course offers the opportunity to study a combination of fundamental and applied physics alongside rigorous mathematics and computational training.
Throughout the course there are extensive opportunities for students to hone practical skills in preparation for a career in a variety of sectors.
The programme includes a combination of compulsory and elective modules covering all components of core physics, as defined by the UK Institute of Physics (IOP).
Subject ranked 1st in the UK for student satisfaction*
Accredited by the Institute of Physics (IOP)
The BSc (Hons) Physics programme combines theory with practical laboratory work and substantial research training.
In the first year students have the chance to benefit from an additional three hours per week of problem solving tutorials.
In addition, the School of Engineering and Physical Sciences runs a tutor system for first year students, providing one hour weekly tutor sessions in small groups.
This module will provide students with the opportunity to learn practical skills needed for physical laboratory experiments.
The module provides a structured introduction to laboratory skills development with particular emphasis on measurement uncertainty.
This module explores measurement and estimation followed by techniques in data analysis and presentation of data.
Students will also have the opportunity to develop practical skills in a set of experiments which examples may include: basic electronic circuits, pendulum, Hooke's law, heat capacity, lenses.
This module describes how modern physics is used in everyday industrial practice.
Examples used in this module will be aligned with the interests of the university's industrial partners and collaborators.
The module also introduces how theoretical apparatus developed initially in physics finds its application in the field of economy.
This module builds on level 1 Laboratory 1 module.
It provides  students with  a broad experience in mastering a range of more complex experimental techniques and offers the opportunity to develop skills in data collection and analysis.
The course may be assessed through a variety of means, including coursework, examinations, written reports, and oral presentations.
You can learn more about the exciting research taking place by visiting the Lincoln Astrophysics website .
I thoroughly enjoyed my studies at the University, mainly due to the ever-patient staff and academics who were there every step of the way, no matter how small the problem.
Sorcha Hulme
BSc (Hons) Physics
Physics graduates are well-placed for careers in research and development, process control, and regulatory roles in organisations around the world.
Some may go on to roles in education or further study at postgraduate level.
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications to include 40 points in Maths and 32 points Physics.
BTEC and T Level qualifications will be considered provided a grade B is obtained in A Level Maths and grade C in A Level Physics.
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points including 40 points from 15 credits in Maths and 15 credits in Physics.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall to include a Higher Level Grade 5 in Maths and Physics.
This must be achieved from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent Level 3 qualifications, to include 40 points from Maths and 32 points from Physics.
A Level: BCD to BBC to include a Grade B in Maths and a Grade C in Physics
BTEC qualifications will be considered provided a grade B is obtained in A Level Maths and grade C in A Level Physics.
Will also consider applicants who do not have A Level Physics, but have a BTEC qualification (A Level equivalent size or above) in either Applied Science or Engineering.
T-level will be considered provided a grade B is obtained in A Level Maths and grade C in A Level Physics.
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 96 to 112 UCAS points to be achieved from 45 Level 3 credits, including 40 points from 15 credits in Maths and 15 credits in Physics.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall to include a Higher Level in Maths and Physics.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/phyphyum:
Clearing offers from 72 UCAS tariff points.
F303
The four year MPhys course is designed for those seeking to develop thorough skills as an independent physicist.
It features further in-depth study and significant project work.
Students may have the opportunity to contribute to researching and writing an academic paper.
This programme combines theory with practical laboratory work and substantial research training.
Students on this MPhys programme will continue to study for a fourth year at an advanced level where they can examine topics in greater depth and undertake substantial additional project work
In this module, students have the opportunity to undertake a substantial project under the supervision of a research-active member of staff.
Projects can be undertaken at an external collaborating establishment.
Students are expected to conduct independent research in modern physics, working in a research group of the school, the university or in an external collaborating establishment.
The aim of this module is to enhance students’ experimental skills with a range of advanced experimental problems.
The module may be conducted at university laboratory facilities or at an external collaborating establishment.
112 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications to include 40 points in Maths and Physics.
BTEC and T Level qualifications will be considered provided a grade B is obtained in A Level Maths and Physics.
Access to Higher Education Diploma:  45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 112 UCAS Tariff points, including 40 points from 15 credits in Maths and 15 credits in Physics.
International Baccalaureate: 29 points overall to include a Higher Level 5 in Maths and Physics.
This must be achieved from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent Level 3 qualifications, to include 40 points from Maths and 40 points from Physics .
A Level: BBC to BBB to include a Grade B in Maths and Physics.
BTEC qualifications will be considered provided a grade B is obtained in A Level Maths and Physics.
T-level will be considered provided a grade B is obtained in A Level Maths and A Level Physics.
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 112 to 120 UCAS points to be achieved from 45 Level 3 credits, including 40 points from 15 credits in Maths and 15 credits in Physics.
International Baccalaureate: 30 points overall to include a Higher Level in Maths and Physics.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/phyaphub:
F308
Our Physics with Astrophysics degree has been developed to equip students with the reasoning and analytical skills to tackle problems with no known answers.
Astrophysics provides training in space science, Earth observation, and physics of extreme conditions, and this degree aims to develop students' abilities to think on their feet and to think outside the box.
The programme is designed to equip graduates with the skills needed to work in the space industry, skills that are also highly transferable to many other sectors.
The programme includes a combination of compulsory and optional modules covering all components of core physics, as specified by the UK Institute of Physics (IOP).
The course offers the opportunity to study fundamental and applied physics with astrophysics alongside rigorous mathematics and computational training.
Optional field trips
The Physics with Astrophysics programme combines theory with practical laboratory work and substantial research training.
The programme includes a combination of compulsory and optional modules covering all components of core physics, as specified by the UK Institute of Physics (IOP), along with substantial mathematics and computational training.
In addition, the School of Engineering and Physical Sciences runs a tutor system which for the first year students provides one-hour weekly tutor sessions in small groups.
The course is taught through a variety of modes including lectures, problem-solving classes, laboratories, computer-based classes, and workshops.
This module aims to challenge our understanding of the Solar System in the context of the fast paced field of exoplanets.
The module aims to equip students with methods to analyse exoplanet observations in modern astronomy.
Work placements should enable students to experience first hand the daily workings of an organisation while setting that experience in the broader context of their studies.
This module aims to outline how observations have helped underpin our understanding of galactic and extragalactic physics.
This module brings together different branches physics to understand the formation and evolution of stars and stellar remnants, like black holes, neutron stars, and white dwarf stars.
The theory of stellar evolution is complimented by observations at various stages of a star's life cycle.
Students on this course can take part in an optional field trip.
Destinations may vary, but have previously included the Roque de los Muchachos Observatory at La Palma in the Canary Islands.
The Roque de los Muchachos Observatory is home to an impressive collection of astronomical facilities, including the world’s largest optical single aperture telescope.
Optional field trips may incur additional costs, and these may vary depending on the location of the trip.
A Physics with Astrophysics degree is designed to equip graduates with the skills needed to work in the space industry.
Physics with Astrophysics graduates are also well placed for careers in research and development, process control, finance, software development and regulatory roles in organisations around the world.
Some may go on to perform roles in education or further study at postgraduate level.
Additionally, transferable skills related to communication, problem-solving, and decision-making, which students are expected to develop throughout their studies, are valuable in many spheres of employment.
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent to include 40 points in Maths and 32 points in Physics.
A Level: BCD to BBC to include a Grade B in Maths and Grade C in Physics

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/phyaphum:
F302
Students on this MPhys programme will continue to study for a fourth year at an advanced level, where they can examine topics in greater depth and undertake substantial additional project work.
In addition, the School of Mathematics and Physics runs a tutor system which for the first year students provides one-hour weekly tutor sessions in small groups.
Students are expected to conduct independent research in modern astrophysics, working in a research group of the school, the university or in an external collaborating establishment.
The module introduces modern computational techniques over a range of physics modelling.
This module covers several sub-disciplines of nano-physics from solid state physics till soft matter physics and their interface.
Students have the opportunity to gain insights into theoretical and experimental aspects of nano-physics, one of most rapidly developing field of modern physics.
The aim of this module is to enhance students’  theoretical skills with a range of advanced  theoretical physics problems.
This must be achieved from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent Level 3 qualifications, to include 40 points from Maths and Physics.
A Level: BBC to BBB to include a Grade B in both Maths and Physics.
Will also consider applicants who do not have A Level Physics, but have a BTEC qualification (A Level equivalent size or above) in either Applied Science or Engineering
112 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels to include 40 points in Maths and Physics.
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 112 UCAS Tariff points, including 40 points from 15 credits in Maths and 15 credits in Physics.
International Baccalaureate:  29 points overall to include a Higher Level 5 in Maths and Physics.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc..

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/phyphlub:
F3V5
This joint degree programme introduces fundamental and applied physics, while developing a philosophical understanding of the world we live in and the place we occupy within it.
Combining physics with philosophy offers students the chance to study, reflect on, and understand scientific material.
Students can apply philosophical theory and ask the fundamental questions designed to investigate, enhance, and expand knowledge.
The course is designed to provide a thorough grounding in experimental and theoretical physics, alongside the study of philosophy.
It is structured to enable students to engage with the core physics curriculum and to examine it from different perspectives more deeply.
Students can develop critical thinking and reflective skills alongside numerical and analytical methods of physics and mathematics, and practical scientific and research techniques.
The course also aims to develop a wide range of transferable skills, including logical reasoning, critical analysis, communication, and teamwork.
In the first year, modules may include Geometrical Optics, Waves and Mechanics; Calculus; and Introduction to Philosophical Logic.
Progressing into the second year students can study modules including Differential Equations, Condensed Matter Physics, and Philosophy of Science.
The third year offers modules such as Physics of the Universe, Quantum Mechanics, and Contemporary Problems in Philosophy, in addition to a range of optional modules including Methods of Mathematical Physics, Newton's Revolution, and Fluid Dynamics.
The course is taught via lectures, problem solving classes, computer based classes, and seminars.
The course is assessed through a variety of method including coursework, examinations, written reports, and oral presentations.
This course complements the key aspects of each subject, providing the ideal balance between Physics and Philosophy.
The support of the lecturers is unrivalled, creating a warm and welcoming atmosphere from both subjects’ respective schools.
Jodie Renaud
BSc (Hons) Physics with Philosophy
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points including 40 points from 15 credits in Maths.
GCSE's:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English Maths and Science.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/phyphlum:
VF53
Those who choose to enrol on this MPhys programme continue their study for a fourth year at an advanced level.
They have the opportunity to examine topics in greater depth and undertake substantial additional project work.
In the first year modules include Geometrical Optics, Waves and Mechanics; Calculus; and Introduction to Philosophical Logic.
The fourth year offers the opportunity to examine topics in greater depth and undertake substantial additional project work.
The reading module allows students to acquire knowledge of a particular area of Philosophy of Physics, and develop the skills needed to study Philosophy of Physics in a more independent manner.
The module also provides an opportunity for MPhys students to study certain topics in Philosophy of Physics which may not be covered by any regular lecture modules, thus adding to the flexibility of the scheme of studies.
Subject areas for proposed reading module will be announced to students, together with an indicative syllabus.
The choice offered will depend on the range of other lecture modules available to MPhys students, as well as on the availability of teaching staff with particular areas of Philosophy of Physics, who could be able to act as moderators.
The role of the reading module tutor is to provide students with support for their reading, including the setting of Philosophy of Physics questions that are to be addressed.
A Level: BBC to BBB to include a Grade B in Maths BTEC qualifications will be considered provided a grade B is obtained in A Level Maths.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/polpolub:
L200
From US and Middle Eastern politics to the big political issues of the day in Britain, look beyond the headlines and explore concepts such as power, democracy, and justice with a degree in Politics.
Lincoln's BA (Hons) Politics examines a wealth of domestic and global politics and specific issues surrounding political theory, nationalism, gender, migration, and international relations.
You can explore the major issues facing the world, and study the social and theoretical contexts that underpin these developments.
In doing so, you can develop analytical, evaluative, and critical-thinking skills, and learn how to collect and analyse data, and draft policy proposals.
You can explore the big issues facing the world, and study the social and theoretical contexts that underpin these developments.
Select from a range of optional modules
Opportunities to visit the UK parliament
The first year offers a broad introduction to the institutions and structures of power in Britain, relationships between nations, and key concepts and thinkers in the social sciences.
You can progress to consider the core ideas underpinning politics and closely linked disciplines, such as international relations.
You can begin to apply these to the study of politics in a range of settings including the USA, the EU, the Middle East, and Asia.
The final year provides opportunities to explore the many ways in which those wielding power are held to account.
You can examine contemporary political challenges such as migration, terrorism, state violence, inequality, gender, sexuality, and societies undergoing political transformation.
A core module, Parliamentary Studies, is run in collaboration with the UK Parliament and co-delivered by Lincoln academics and parliamentary staff to give unique insight into their careers.
The programme aims to equip you with a deep and broad understanding of politics as a discipline, a concept, and an activity, and with a range of transferable research skills.
Politics at Lincoln is designed to give you the opportunity to develop transferable skills including oral, written and visual presentation skills, policy analysis, statistical data processing, and public speaking.
In addition to lectures and seminars, staff use a range of media to deliver teaching materials including blogs and social media such as X.
A number of the modules include weekly screenings of documentaries and movies designed to examine the discussion of politics in the media and popular culture.
Studying Politics at Lincoln aims to combine directed and independent learning.
Each module is usually delivered by means of a weekly lecture and an associated weekly seminar.
The seminars are designed to provide an opportunity for you to discuss issues raised in the lecture and engage in critical reflection on set readings.
As well as directed study, you'll be expected to undertake independent learning utilising traditional library resources as well as a wide range of electronic resources.
You'll also have the opportunity to meet with module leaders in tutorial sessions.
This course features a diverse assessment regime which aims to provide you with an in-depth subject knowledge and a range of transferable skills.
You can expect to be assessed on your oral and written presentation skills, your ability to collect and analyse data in a number of different forms, analytical skills including statistical analysis, and your ability to work on your own and as part of a team.
Staff delivering this programme aim to provide supportive, detailed, personalised and consistent feedback throughout the duration of the course.
We're proud of our wide-ranging international connections and the unique opportunities those offer to our students.
The University’s partner institutions in the USA, Sweden, Belgium, Germany, and the Netherlands offer you the chance to study abroad during the third year of study, before returning to Lincoln for the final year.
The initiative enables you to experience your subject from a different perspective and to explore different societies and cultures.
Spaces are limited and are allocated competitively, subject to academic criteria.
During your studies, you can also make the most of the University's Great Central Warehouse Library, which is home to more than 260,000 printed books and approximately 750,000 electronic books and journals, alongside databases and specialist collections.
The Library has a range of different spaces for shared and individual learning.
Graduates have gone on to positions across the public sector, including central and local government, policy development within parliament, lobbying or research with think tanks, and the charity and not-for-profit sectors.
A number have continued on to postgraduate study or professional training.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/prdprdub:
W200
Product Design is a career focused on tackling the social and environmental challenges facing our modern world - bringing to life the next generation of products and services.
On the course you'll develop an understanding of product design based on creative materials and methodologies, technical knowledge, and critical thinking, supported by an understanding of human behaviour that puts the user at the heart of your idea.
Working sustainably and responsibly with traditional and emerging technologies, you'll discover how to bring your ideas to life using our digital suite of 3D scanners and printers and a range of CNC machines.
You'll also have the chance to pitch ideas to professional brands and businesses, enter international design competitions, and tailor your portfolio to fit your dream design career.
Digital suite of 3D scanners and printers
Optional study trips to London and New York
Pitch ideas to businesses and brands
*Out of 97 ranking institutions in the Guardian University Guide 2025
In the first year, students have the opportunity to develop their understanding of product design based on technical skills acquisition - from nurturing an idea to following a client brief and producing prototypes in 3D form.
The second-year builds on these foundational skills and expands into the exciting areas of sensory design, visual language, and cultures to help get a more in-depth view on the subject.
In the final year of the degree, students are engaged in independent projects alongside a dissertation on a design topic of their choice culminating in an end-of-year exhibition.
The programme has a vibrant and collegiate studio culture, where contact time can be in workshops, Mac and PC suites, practical sessions, seminars, or lectures and may vary from module to module and from academic year to year.
Teaching and learning experiences may include workshop activities, peer groups, lectures, workshops, seminars, and group tutorials.
Students can also benefit from one-to-one surgeries, portfolio reviews, and self-initiated work experience.
This module aims to provide an introduction to design methodologies and the influential contexts associated to the process of design.
Emphasis is to be placed upon developing an understanding of analysis and synthesis as a fundamental element of design development.
The module also encourages a diverse approach to idea generation and provides the opportunity to understand the intrinsic qualities of materials, visual language, and the necessity of realising transient proposals effectively and efficiently.
This module introduces the principles of using physical and screen based applications within the design process and developing an awareness of the properties of materials and objects.
Initial emphasis is directed towards appreciating the interaction of 2D and 3D applications for effective and efficient communications.
The contextual aspects and an awareness of applications in associated disciplines are promoted.
In the later stages the module addresses the application of 3D design within the development process and explores various attributes adopted for the generation of convincing 3D models and materials.
This module aims to provide the opportunity to develop a range of drawing skills for different applications within design.
Students can explore methods of mark-making, shading, rendering, and developmental sketching.
The module also introduces digital forms of 2D image generation.
This module focuses on encouraging students to develop a responsible approach to product development, and creates an awareness of sustainability in design.
Students have the opportunity to explore and challenge issues surrounding social vanity, interaction and exclusivity, in addition to understanding the need of developing markets and appreciating strains on natural resources.
The module aims to promote an understanding and relevance of soul references in culture and developing an appreciation that changes in society can influence the range of creative responses available.
This module aims to promote the significance of arousing feelings and expressing emotions through added value in design solutions.
The ability to create a controlling influence utilising proactive and reactive responses to an observer is explored.
Communication of emotions associated with the psychological aspects of design are explored, with reference to both the inherent qualities of products and the exploitation of constraints in provoking a response from the user; the emphasis therefore focusing on communication not decoration.
This module provides the opportunity to investigate and explore visual languages within the context of 3D design communication and aims to address the process of transferring an idea into a realistic proposal.
The module expects the student to identify and achieve empathy with a target audience, using a range of communication methods.
The module seeks to recognise and define issues, which are influential to the future direction of design strategies.
The module adopts a standard driven approach for analysis, and evaluation of design intelligence supports effective responses to fresh perspectives and provides opportunities to determine market potential and the influence of brands.
An ability to drive creativity and challenge conventional boundaries is explored to target and generate innovative design proposals.
Emphasis on the evaluation and the critical comparison of future materials is promoted.
The module encourages self-initiated learning, critical evaluation and analysis within the initial stages of the design process.
Focus is directed at the ability to formulate judgements and reasoned argument, through research methods, to support the proposal of developing creative design solutions for identified or potential target markets.
The module aims to further promote self-initiated development and provides the opportunity to evolve identified design proposals, to viable solutions effectively and efficiently.
The autonomy of the module facilitates motivation and relevance, enhancing development and supporting design realisation to identified criteria.
Students have the opportunity to work alongside leading specialists and companies to produce concepts and designs, which can have substantial value for our world.
Some of our past student work has gone into production, providing a chance for students to appreciate the designer's role in business and commerce.
We are involved with a number of partner companies who have ongoing internship and employment opportunities.
Explore our facilities
The University of Lincoln and the Product Design team hold a special place in my heart.
The community was supportive and equipped me with the tools to start my design career.
Hannah Davis
BA (Hons) Product Design
Career opportunities exist in design consultancies and agencies, as well as in-house design departments.
Some of our most recent graduates have progressed to roles including Packaging and Trims Designer at Joules, Assistant Design Manager at Playscheme, Junior Designer at GES – Global Experience Specialists, Senior Furniture Designer at Next, Design Accounts Manager at The Future Factory, Designer at Dunelm, and 3D and RP Designer at Hotter Shoes.
Some become freelance designers, while others have established their own design consultancies, with the help of the University’s business incubation unit, Sparkhouse.
Graduate Joep Peters currently works as 3D Generalist at Peek Creative Studios in the Netherlands.
Since graduating he has worked on films including Pacific Rim Uprising, Assassins Creed, The Martian, Guardians of the Galaxy, Prometheus, and Superman: Man of Steel.
Along with the software a basic materials package will be provided, including some essentials such as paper and pencils but will be required to cover additional costs specific to the study of product design.
These typically include costs for rapid prototyping, art materials, printing, exhibitions, and creating a final collection for the third year’s show.
Level 1 and 2 students report typically spending £200-300 per year on course materials and equipment.
Level 3-Final year expenditure can be greater due to the production of a final garment collection and portfolio.
It should be noted that successful work is not necessarily dependent on high costs but on the level of originality, innovation, creativity, and resourcefulness.
It is however expected that students on the programme will have sufficient funding to support the costs of their studies without hindrance.
Students on this course have the option to undertake external visits, which can range in cost from £300 to £1,000, dependant on the destination.
The participation in these trips will have no impact upon your final award and savings and contribution plans are put in place for these.
Students are also invited to participate in an optional graduate exhibition event and to make a £200 (approx) contribution, which is financially supported by both the programme and by the Lincoln School of Design.
Contributions help students to attend a graduate event with designers, employers, and manufacturers.
The School and programme make a major contribution to the stand, production, prototyping, materials, and image costs.
Students are responsible for their own travel, accommodation, and general living costs while undertaking a work experience or an internship.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/psysesub:
C850
The BSc (Hons) Psychology (Sport and Exercise Psychology) programme explores the foundations of psychology in relation to the application of sport and exercise.
The programme closely aligns with our Psychology (BSc) Hons degree, and you will have the opportunity to gain a wealth of theoretical knowledge relating to the science behind how we think, act, and interact with others.
You can also benefit from teaching by academics in the School of Sport and Exercise Science which aim to give you insight into understanding the fundamental role that psychology plays in maximising athletes' sport performance by enhancing physical activity levels and nurturing healthy behaviours.
The programme is taught by research-active academics with specialist expertise in areas such as cognitive neuropsychology, mental health, body image, sport and exercise psychology, and attentional processing.
Across the School of Psychology, we also have expertise topics such as mental health, sleep, gambling, and body image which represent modules offered as electives in the third year and enable further specialisation to complement the core programme modules.
Accredited by the British Psychological Society
Conduct research alongside our research-active staff
Specialist facilities including sleep, EEG, and psychophysiology labs
International study and work experience options
*Complete University Guide 2025 (out of 56 ranking institutions).
This course is aimed to reflect current research-informed teaching and innovation to evaluate how psychological knowledge is understood and applied in real-world settings, particularly the fields of sport and exercise.
The first year is designed to provide you with a broad and extensive understanding of the key concepts of psychology and research.
The second year builds on these concepts in greater detail to enable you to understand how they can be applied in context.
The third year provides the opportunity to tailor your degree towards your interests.
Depending on the level and topic of content, teaching can be delivered in large lectures, small seminars, workshops, computer-based laboratory sessions, and tutorials.
Most modules involve two hours a week of timetabled teaching, with independent study expected outside of these hours.
With access to the University's range of modern psychological research laboratories, you can develop the skills to design and conduct an independent research project based on your own interests.
In addition to our work experience opportunities, many modules include employer presentations and activities.
Students can also meet employers at our annual Psychology Works careers fair.
Academic staff hold regular drop-in sessions to support you throughout your course and provide course materials on an online virtual learning environment to support face to face teaching.
This module aims to introduce you to key concepts and theories that describe and explain the importance of psychology within sport, exercise, and physical activity settings.
You can examine the influence of thoughts, feelings, and behaviours on various outcome indicators (e.g., performance outcomes, participation rates, and well-being) and how these variables can change as a result of sport and exercise experiences.
The concepts introduced will be covered in relation to underpinning psychological theories and pertinent research evidence within sport and exercise psychology.
Furthermore, the module will aim to provide you with the opportunity to develop an understanding of how psychology can be relevant and applied to real world issues within elite and youth level sport, as well as wider exercise.
The module will introduce students to science-backed tools and habits that they can use to improve their own skills, social awareness and wellbeing, and to enhance their own lives as psychological literate citizens.
Students will typically develop skills in scientific and psychological literacy, critical thinking, self-reflection, written and oral communication and teamwork.
This module introduces students to some of the basic concepts underlying the qualitative and quantitative treatment of research data.
The module aims to provide the foundations for research in psychology that students will be able to build on during their degree and beyond.
This module aims to build on the foundations of research methods and statistics from Research Skills I and works to prepare students for more independent and advanced study in Research Skills III and IV.
The module provides an introduction to, and experience of, survey and qualitative methods in Psychology, covering study design, data collection, analysis, interpretation and reporting.
Students are introduced to the theoretical and philosophical underpinnings of non-experimental research and have the opportunity to consider practical applications.
The module extends the investigations of cognition that began in the first year.
Areas critical to our understanding of cognition are considered in more depth, with consideration of both classic and current research into cognitive processes from both a cognitive and cognitive neuroscience approach.
This module aims to build on and develop the experimental research skills that were acquired at Research Skills I.
Students are introduced to a range of statistical and non-statistical topics.
In parallel, a series of workshops are designed to teach the practical skills associated with experimental design and analysis, and students can also carry out a research project in small groups supervised by members of staff.
This module aims to build and develop non-experimental research skills that were acquired at Level 1 (Research Skills I&II).
These will include research design, analysis and data handling.
In lectures, students are introduced to a range of statistical and non-statistical topics.
In parallel, a series of workshops will teach students practical skills associated with non-experimental design and analysis, and students will also carry out a research project in small groups supervised by members of staff.
This module seeks to explore some of the central issues of social psychology, including how people deal with social information, such as the causes of behaviour and social categories, and how groups function and interact.
This module aims to build upon knowledge gained in the first year of the course by facilitating a deeper level of knowledge and critical analysis in key areas of sport and exercise psychology.
Module content aims to evaluate how psychological knowledge is developed with a critical evaluation of existing knowledge.
Key theories can be discussed and evaluated considering existing research evidence.
Additionally, several important developing lines of research can be covered with the aim of a move towards understanding how psychology can be applied to aid performance and promote more enjoyable experiences.
This optional, year-long module enables students to spend a year studying abroad at one of the University’s approved partner institutions.
This module aims to create a valuable opportunity for students to gain important insights and improve their skills and prospects relevant to employment or further study (i.e.
within psychology or related subject areas) by undertaking relevant work experience.
This optional module aims to develop further understanding of how sport and exercise psychology can be applied to improve and support performance.
It seeks to provide an insight into how psychological skills training can be used by athletes from all different levels and how the performer can manage competition and training and enhance performance.
Students have the opportunity to consider how to effectively assess an athlete’s psychological profile, and how to design and implement training programmes.
This module aims to draw on aspects of cognitive and clinical neuropsychology to examine the consequences of brain dysfunction.
A particular focus will be upon the interdependence of clinical and experimental neuropsychology, and it is within this context that the role of neuropsychology in research, diagnosis and patient management can be explored.
Students will conduct their own research which will culminate in the production of a dissertation.
This module is designed to test a student’s ability to identify an appropriate research question and to design and implement an appropriate study.
In this module you can explore addictive behaviours, substance abuse, and dependence in society and consider their prevalence and treatment strategies.
Whether looking at individual disorders or commonalities across all disorders, you can understand the risk factors for addiction, examine the limitations of biological explanations for addiction, and evaluate the development of the field of psychological study of addictions.
The aim of this module is to provide a comprehensive introduction to advanced multivariate techniques.
The module seeks to explore the theoretical rationale underpinning each analysis.
This module is designed to develop understanding of body image and eating disorders.
This module will typically cover their aetiology, diagnosis, assessment, and treatment in diverse populations including children, men, BAME (Black, Asian, Minority Ethnic)/POC (People of Colour) and LGBTQIA+.
The module typically aims to give students an appreciation of the complicated and multi-determined field of body image and eating disorders; as well as the limitations of methodology both for clinical assessment and research paradigms.
This module typically further aims to examine attitudes to eating, body shapes and sizes, their driving factors, and challenge the students to analyse and synthesise via exercises in seminars.
This module aims to build on the cognition of visual attention taught in year two.
It aims to teach the developing understanding of the biological basis of visual attention.
Features, i.e.
lines, curve and areas are computed early in the visual system.
This is not a passive process.
Attention can be shown to influence, at a neurological level, the features that are computed.
The module considers how this early processing leads to the representation of real world objects.
The locus and functions of top down attentional biasing will also be examined.
This module is designed to introduce students to counselling theories and aims to help to develop introductory communication and counselling skills.
A Person-Centred approach to counselling skills will be used and an important aspect of this module will be providing students with the opportunity of development of learning through self-reflection.
This module offers an in-depth review of the current literature on developmental cognitive neuroscience, using interdisciplinary approaches from research areas of cognitive psychology, neuroscience and child psychology.
Students can consider several domains of cognition, such as vision, orienting and attention; memory and learning; knowledge of objects, faces and space.
For each of them, consideration is given to questions such as: How is cognitive function represented in the developing brain?
What kinds of developmental changes occur?
What are the effects of different developing experience, including those presented by genetic deficits, environmental deprivation and brain damage?
What is the developmental time course within which such damage can affect cognitive development?
This module explores contemporary research and understanding of the mind and brain through examining both molecular (neurotransmitter and drug function) and psychological (processes of sensation, memory, mood, consciousness) evidence.
This module aims to introduce students to Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) theory and practice and help them develop introductory therapy skills.
Students can learn about the evidence base for CBT for a number of presenting mental health difficulties such as depression and anxiety.
The module also looks at the strengths and weaknesses of this therapeutic approach.
It offers an introduction to the therapeutic process from the assessment of a person’s mental health difficulty, through to CBT formulations of the presenting problem, some initial insight into CBT interventions, and finally evaluating therapy.
Students are taught within the reflective scientist-practitioner framework, which informs undergraduate psychology degrees at the University.
This module is designed to provide a broad overview of this sub-field, which can be divided into three main areas; job related issues, inter and intra psychological issues, and workplace psychology.
Theories from mainstream psychology aim to form the basis for a detailed discussion of key topics in occupational psychology.
This module presents a broad overview of these findings and theoretical perspectives, and considers how they help us to deepen our understanding of visual art.
Students critically evaluate scientific approaches to understanding art during seminar discussions, and are encouraged to find and bring relevant examples of visual art to the discussion.
This module aims to explore the science behind the effects that drugs have on mood, sensation, thinking and behaviour.
The history and actions of medications currently in use for the treatment of mental health disorders will be described along with an overview of the known actions and effects of illicit drug compounds.
This module is designed to give students the opportunity to develop a critical awareness and understanding of psychological issues typically related to the assessment, perception, communication, management and governing of risk as it affects professional practices in such areas as public health, politics, the environment, science and technology, corporate communication, and clinical/forensic psychology.
This module examines the potential benefits of sleep, focusing in particular on two areas.
The role of sleep in memory and cognition will be explored in depth, followed by a wider examination of other benefits of sleep for well-being, which may include effects on mood, physical health and aspects of behaviour.
Students will be introduced to the way in which sleep can benefit cognition and well-being and the experimental paradigms used to demonstrate this.
The aims of the module are to consider in depth the potential role of sleep in both cognition and well-being, and develop the skills and knowledge that will enable the critique of the different approaches taken in this field leading to the ability to interpret and integrate current research findings and design original further research studies.
This module aims to build on the module, Brain Behaviour & Cognition.
It applies that background knowledge to the topic of Sleep, Dreaming and Circadian Rhythms.
The module aims to introduce students to the neurobiology of sleep and dreams.
It also aims to integrate current understanding of key issues in sleep research such as the purpose of sleep and the role of dreams.
This module is designed to introduce the background, theories and techniques of Social cognitive neuroscience.
SCN seeks to understand socioemotional phenomena in terms of interactions between the social (socioemotional cues, contexts, experiences, and behaviors), cognitive (information processing mechanisms), and neural (brain bases) levels of analysis.
This module provides an introduction to Solution Focused Coaching theories and practically trains you in basic implementation of Solution Focused Coaching skills.
In addition, the module stresses the development of self-reflection, and experiential learning from practice.
To this end the module describes and evaluates a range of solution focused coaching skills, and teaches the use and understanding of models of reflective practice applicable to professional coaching.
The module will cover issues including contracting in solution focused coaching, the miracle question and constructing an agreed future, exception/instance finding and expansion, scaling techniques for coaching progress, concluding solution focused sessions, plus experiential and reflective learning models.
This module aims to represent advances in vision research through the research contributions made by staff delivering the module.
Emphasis is placed on methodology and the results they generate and how these are used to in turn to both inform and challenge conventional theory.
Work experience is invaluable for undergraduate Psychology students as it has the potential to bridge the gap between academic learning and real-world applications.
This module will provide you with the opportunity to enhance your practical, graduate level employability skills and insights that are not typically developed in traditional classroom settings.
This module is designed to introduce you to counselling theories and aims to help to develop introductory communication and counselling skills.
A Person-Centred approach to counselling skills will be used and an important aspect of this module will be providing you with the opportunity of development of learning through self-reflection.
You can choose to take a year out between year two and your final year of study.
You'll be able to select one of the following options:
International Study
This option provides an opportunity to explore study in a new overseas culture and environment at one of the University's approved partner institutions.
Choosing this option leads to (International Study) being added to your award title upon successful completion of the course.
You can find out more on our Global Opportunities webpage .
Work Experience
This option offers the opportunity to enhance your personal and professional development by gaining experience in a real workplace setting, which could help develop the skills relevant to future employment or further study.
Selecting this option leads to (Work Experience) being added to your award title upon successful completion of the course.
My undergraduate psychology degree gave me a solid base in psychological theories and research, whilst allowing me the chance to develop my interests in specific areas, such as sport and mental health.
Emily Walters
BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Science Student
The aims of the module assessments are to measure the development and attainment of course outcomes, including the developing key skills such as critical analysis and evaluation.
Examples of common assessment methods include essays, in-class tests, research reports, research diaries, research or clinical proposals, practical case studies, and dissertations.
Furthermore, practical exams, such as poster and oral presentations, performances or observations; and written exams (including essay-based exams), such as formal examinations or in-class tests, may also be used.
The course is accredited by the British Psychological Society (BPS) as conferring eligibility for the Graduate Basis for Chartered membership (GBC) the first step towards becoming a chartered psychologist.
The BPS is the main professional body representing psychology and psychologists in the UK.
New students can join groups within the school including those that support LGBTQIA+, disability, BAME, mature students, commuters, and carers.
Students can also join DigiPsych, our online magazine run for students by students in the School of Psychology.
DigiPsych publishes content that may be of interest to psychology students including reviews of psychological and non-psychological articles, stories, and opinion pieces.
Moreover, we have a weekly programme of guest lecturers invited from all over the world.
Previous speakers for our special Lincoln International Seminars include Elizabeth Loftus.
To give students insight into industry and current research, we host regular guest lectures and speakers form across the world to share their knowledge and research.
We also encourage our students to network with our alumni who can offer mentoring to our current students.
Our School aims to produce critical thinkers and independent researchers who are able to tackle psychological problems and issues using a systematic, critical, and analytical approach.
As part of this process, first year students undertake training in areas important to psychological research, such as using statistics software.
In the second year, students may be able to utilise these skills by working alongside an academic supervisor to conduct an original research project.
This culminates with students being able to undertake a substantial research study of their own for the dissertation component of their degree.
In addition to the taught components of research, students are encouraged to participate in the research culture of the School more broadly, with the opportunity to be involved as volunteers in research activities, such as our Summer Scientist programme, and to compete for paid studentships offered by the University of Lincoln and the British Psychological Society to conduct further research over the summer, typically in between the second and third year of the course.
We also have a number of active research groups within the school.
These are conducting exciting research into areas such as developmental, cognitive, social, forensic, and psychological health within the school, and you can read more on our Research webpage .
The School of Psychology also shares close working links with the School of Sport and Exercise Science, and contributes to various sport and psychology research.
The University has invested £19 million in the Sarah Swift Building, a dedicated facility for the School of Psychology.
Our range of specialist research laboratories allow you to gain practical experience.
You will also have access to IT suites and technical staff who can offer support in the design and execution of experiments and assistance with specialist software.
The EEG lab allows our researchers to identify activation patterns in the cerebrum, in response to stimuli, to find out when and which parts of the brain respond to these.
Research in this lab investigates how visual cognition is shaped and influenced by our environment, experience and knowledge.
Current research is examining how visual cues are processed in the brain.
Research here categorises conceptual development including speech perception, language acquisition - particularly word learning and grammar.
The Molecular laboratory houses a contained wet lab for chemical and biological analyses on site and stores samples from participants before, during, and after processing and analysis.
This dedicated facility conducts full polysomnography, actigraphy, home sleep monitoring, and computerised behavioural testing in the areas of neuroscience, sleep, and wellbeing.
This programme provides Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership of the British Psychological Society (BPS).
As a graduate, you can consider further professional training within various fields of psychology, such as clinical, health, sport and exercise, counselling, occupational, educational, forensic, neuropsychology, and academic research or teaching.
Other graduates may wish to progress to study at postgraduate level.
Specifically, sport and exercise psychologists help athletes improve their performance.
In most sport psychology careers, you may work with athletes regarding motivation, stress management, effective teamwork, and other psychological factors affecting their athletic performance.
Since graduating I have worked in clinical psychology as an assistant psychologist, during which I utilised the research, analysis and report writing skills learned in my time at Lincoln.
Fraser Field
112 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications.
T Level:  Merit.
Access to Higher Education Diploma:  45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 112 UCAS Tariff points.
GCSE's:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English and Maths or Statistics.
Non-UK Qualifications:
Can we help?
If you have any questions about your qualifications, or would like assistance in submitting your application, please contact our https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/contactus/
A Level: BCC to BBB
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 104 to 120 UCAS points to be achieved from 45 Level 3 credits.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/psypsyub:
C800
Psychology brings together the scientific study of behaviour, mental health, and neurophysiological functioning in an attempt to understand what makes us human, and why we think the way we do.
Lincoln's BSc (Hons) Psychology degree aims to offer a broad and thorough foundation in psychology, exploring the science behind how we think, act, and respond to others through a range of topics.
The course is taught by research-active academics with specialist areas of expertise, including cognitive neuropsychology, vision and attentional processing, infant cognition and language, mental health, forensic psychology, and lifespan development.
Students have the opportunity to participate in exciting original research projects alongside academic staff.
Accredited by the British Psychological Society (BPS)
Tailor your degree through Organisational and Coaching Psychology pathways
Teaching takes place across a range of settings, from large lecture rooms to smaller seminars and workshops.
Most modules involve two hours a week of timetabled teaching time.
You are able to gain support outside of the classroom through drop-in sessions hosted by teaching staff.
There are dedicated psychology laboratories for you to undertake projects as well as research labs which you can use as part of your final year research project.
In addition to work experience opportunities, many modules bring you into contact with employers through presentations and activities.
Students may also have the opportunity to meet and network with employers at our Psychology Works career fair, run by our dedicated Employability Champion.
Course materials are posted to an online virtual learning environment to supplement face to face teaching and to support onsite and remote study.
This introductory module aims to provide students with the opportunity to develop an understanding of how psychology knowledge can be applied to address real world issues.
The module is designed to introduce students to the application of psychology by detailing how psychological research is used to make improvements across multiple contexts in our environment.
This module aims to examine the relationship between neural structure and psychological function by examining convergent evidence from the domains of neuropsychology, neurophysiology and neural networks.
The module seeks to consider methodological and theoretical issues that underpin the relationship between brain and behaviour.
This module introduces undergraduate students to the application of the science and practice of Positive Psychology applied to the workplace, specifically focusing on the understanding and evaluation of Character Strengths research and interventions.
The module will provide a comprehensive introduction to the theory and practice of Character Strengths psychology, based on the VIA Inventory of Strengths, with particular application to the workplace.
It covers the outcome literature on using higher strengths in life and work, the relationship of strengths based practices with mental health, the use of strengths to overcome challenging situations, how strengths can be used to manage teams and projects, strengths-based leadership and its effect on a system, and the use strengths with mindful practice for productivity.
This module aims to introduce students to key mechanisms in evolutionary theory and seeks to illustrate evolutionary processes in action with reference to a number of examples of animal physical and behavioural adaptations.
This module aims to cover the topic of Conditioning and Learning otherwise known as Applied Behaviour Analysis.
The module seeks to explore the central issues of conditioning theory and then apply these to a wide variety of human experience and functioning.
The main purpose of this module is to create a valuable opportunity for students to gain important insights and improve their skills and prospects relevant to employment or further study (within psychology or related subject areas) by undertaking relevant work experience.
This module aims to examine how psychology is presented in the media in the light of psychological knowledge and develop a critical approach through the exploration of common biases and misinterpretations.
This module considers theories and methods on human-animal interaction, considering the benefits and disadvantages for humans but also for animals of this interaction (e.g., animal assisted therapy for humans, coping with the results of environmental degradation by animals).
The module is an option for second year psychology students, with its teaching being supported by research active staff.
The module provides an introduction to the prison context.
Based on established theoretical, research and operational context, the module will critically examine the various departments and functions within prisons in order to provide a greater understanding of the psychological experiences of people detained within prison custody.
The module aims to provide students with an understanding of the complexity of prisons, predominantly in England and Wales, and will provide opportunities for critical debate to analyse and synthesise module content.
This module focuses on the psychological mechanisms involved in aggressive and peaceful interactions, and on the social and ecological causes/consequences of aggression, war and peace.
It uses a multi-disciplinary approach, reviewing theories from psychology, economics, evolutionary biology and anthropology, and examples from lab experiments and field observations in complex human societies and hunter-gatherers, non-human animals, archaeological records, historical events, politics and economics.
This module expects students to carry out empirical research on a cutting-edge topic.
In preparation for the module, interested students will have the opportunity to consult with relevant academic staff to identify an appropriate research project.
Students are expected to work closely with a research tutor, who has research expertise in the chosen area.
This optional module is designed to explore in greater depth some of the social psychological theories encountered on the degree programme.
In this module, the issue of theory and application will be tackled in two ways.
The early part of the module takes a series of human social behaviours as a start point and presents some of the competing theories that social psychologists have used to explain them.
The later part of the module takes some of the social psychological theories as the start point and examines how successfully they have been applied to a series of human social behaviours.
This module aims to broaden the understanding of mental health to encompass psychological well-being.
Based on the established theoretical and research context, this module will consider an additional range of psychological disorders in terms of their assessment, aetiology, research background, and impact on the individual’s functioning and the environment they interact in.
This module specialises in presenting the psychological scientific foundations of 'intervention science' in an organisational context.
It covers the process of developing interventions to investigate and address key organisational problems.
This module aims to develop understanding of the major approaches used in contemporary coaching psychology with a view to identifying and applying appropriate coaching interventions in response to real world problems and examine critically a range of psychological research and theories used in coaching in a variety of contexts, such as education, business, sport and health.
It is delivered in two sections.
The first covers conceptual and ethical issues in the practice of coaching psychology, such as measuring coaching effectiveness, ethics in coaching, the neuroscience underlying coaching practice, and cross-cultural issues in coaching.
The second section offers a comprehensive examination of many approaches currently operating in Coaching Psychology: Person-Centred/Humanistic Approaches, Behavioural Coaching, Cognitive-Behavioural Coaching, Motivational Interviewing, Psychodynamic Approaches, the Gestalt Approach, Narrative Approaches, and Positive Psychology Approaches.
This module provides a critical evaluation of the way the Organisational Psychology literature approaches common workplace issues.
This module will introduce the background, theories, and techniques of alternative methods of studying human behaviour, and understanding patterns of action.
Patterns of Action seeks to understand why humans behave as they do in a range of contexts (from health and wellbeing, to forensic and criminal).
Taking a broadly Systems Theory approach, methods for studying real-world phenomena in a scientific and rigorous way will be outlined and students will have the opportunity to become experts in cutting edge techniques that can be applied to real-world scenarios, rather than laboratory-based approaches.
This module aims to offer students the opportunity to develop a theoretical understanding of the psychodynamic/psychoanalytic movement and its clinical applications.
Lincoln’s School of Psychology gave me the most wonderful three years and I learnt far more than I ever expected to.
I found new loves for topics and subjects I hadn’t thought of during my A-level Psychology studies, and studying Psychology at Lincoln gave me a clear direction of what I wanted to do after I graduated.
Joanne Prior
On this course you'll be able to study a breadth of modules across the core domains of Psychology, and will have the opportunity to continue on the BSc (Hons) Psychology or to choose a specialist pathway.
Both pathways will allow you to engage in a range of hands-on activities, developing, evaluating, and critiquing workplace interventions, and applying theory to real-world problems.
These pathways may support future careers in the areas of organisational development and human resources, executive coaching, management, and business consultancy or learning and development.
You may also wish to pursue a career in research with postgraduate study to become a Chartered Occupational or Coaching Psychologist.
The Coaching Psychology Pathway focuses more on modules concerning the individual, incorporating positive psychology, empirical research, and theory on wellbeing.
You'll be able to develop the practical skills needed to promote wellbeing in organisations, education establishments, and businesses.
The Organisational Psychology Pathway applies psychological theory to the workplace and workers.
You'll have the opportunity to examine how psychological approaches inform a range of business activities including recruitment and talent management, organisational development and change, leadership and strategy, and work and wellbeing.
The aims of the module assessments are to provide a measure of the development and attainment of course outcomes, including the attainment of high-level intellectual skills such as critical analysis and evaluation.
Accordingly, the nature of the assessment varies across the three levels of the course.
The assessments at levels one and two focus on the acquisition and understanding of knowledge and skills.
In contrast, the level three assessments place far greater emphasis on the ability to apply, analyse and evaluate knowledge.
The way you're assessed on this course may vary for each module.
Examples of assessment methods that may be used include essays, in-class tests, research reports, research diaries, research or clinical proposals, and dissertations; practical exams, such as poster and oral presentations, performances or observations; and written exams (including essay-based exams), such as formal examinations, or in-class tests.
During your studies, you will be encouraged to participate in original research projects alongside academic staff.
This includes our 'Summer Scientist' initiative that involves the participation of children in a series of accessible games for research studies.
Current research questions being explored by our staff and students include how best to provide healthcare staff with an understanding of cognitive status of older adults, within the Cognitive Daisy project: www.cognitivedaisy.co.uk .
Other research interests include exploring the effects of dog-assisted interventions in school children; investigating the impact of calorie menu labelling on those with eating disorders; and neural entrainment of brain rhythms to aid sleep.
As a graduate from our BSc (Hons) Psychology degree, you will be well-placed to consider further professional training in psychology.
Professional fields within psychology to consider range from clinical, health, occupational and educational, to forensic, sport and exercise, counselling, neuropsychology, and academia, research, and teaching.
My degree not only directly influenced my career choice to become digital data analyst, it also gave me a holistic view that I implemented while setting up my own business.
A Psychology degree doesn’t give you just one opportunity or a strict route to follow but rather it allows you to create endless opportunities.
Klaudia Adrych
GCSE:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English and Maths .
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/ ___________________________________________________

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/psyfsyub:
C890
Psychology brings together the scientific study of behaviour, the mind, and neurophysiological functioning in an attempt to understand what makes us human, and why we think the way we do.
The BSc (Hons) Psychology with Forensic Psychology degree at Lincoln provides you with an opportunity to gain an understanding of the core concepts and practices in psychology in general, along with a level of specialised knowledge in forensic psychology.
The course aims to offer a realistic insight into the day-to-day work of a forensic psychologist.
Within forensic-related modules, students can gain an understanding of the motives, mind-sets, and behaviours of people who commit various crimes, as well as the assessment and treatment of offence-related risk factors.
Students can also study the processes within the criminal justice system, including courts and post-conviction forensic settings, such as prisons.
Teaching on the course includes content from both registered forensic psychologists and expert researchers within the field of forensic psychology.
Subject area is ranked top ten overall in the UK*
Attend trips, talks, and social activities through the student-led Psychology
Guest lectures from industry professionals
*Complete University Guide 2025 (out of 36 ranking institutions).
There are dedicated Psychology Labs for student projects as well as the research labs that you may use as part of your final year research project.
This is an introductory module introducing the theory, research, and practice in Forensic Psychology.
In the module students consider aspects of investigation and policing and particular types of major crime offending.
The module will then move on to consider the courts and the dispersal of convicted offenders/patients into forensic settings such as prisons and secure units.
This will also include a focus on assessment of risk and treatment programmes.
This module aims to introduce students to the main theories that have been developed to explain various forms of offending behaviour.
Students can critically examine a range of offending behaviours in terms of their aetiology.
Both seminal and up-to-date empirical research studies will also be covered to help in the critical appraisal of the theories covered.
In addition, the field of mental health as it applies to offending behaviour (e.g., personality disorders) will also be examined, allowing for some of the content from the Mental Health and Disorder module to be applied in a forensic context.
By introducing students to the systematic use and application of psychological theory and scientific methods within a forensic context, and applying them in a reflective and critical way, the module aims to contributes to students’ development as competent scientist-practitioners.
The module is designed to cover the relevant evidence for working with different forensic interventions and general information relating to assessment and motivational engagement in forensic settings.
Initially students have an opportunity to develop their knowledge of problem formulation.
Later students may examine in detail some approaches to treatment and therapy used in forensic settings.
This aims to include specific information about a range of different client groups including: sexual and violent offenders; individuals with personality disorder, mental illness and learning disability; as well as women offenders, arsonists and individuals with drug and alcohol problems.
For each of these groups, students have the opportunity to develop knowledge regarding what is effective with each client group (including the appropriate assessment and intervention methods).
There is the opportunity to hear practice issues from professionals working in forensic practice, as practitioners will deliver the majority of lectures.
The aims of the module assessments are to provide a measure of the development and attainment of course outcomes, including the attainment of high-level intellectual skills such as critical analysis, and evaluation.
Assessments at levels one and two are designed to focus on the acquisition and understanding of knowledge and skills.
In contrast, level three assessments aim to place far greater emphasis on the ability to apply, analyse, and evaluate knowledge.
Examples of assessment methods that may be used include coursework, such as written assignments, research reports, research diaries, research or clinical proposals, or dissertations; practical exams, such as oral and poster presentations, performances or observations; and written exams (including essay-based exams), such as formal examinations or in-class tests (including multiple-choice tests and short-answer questions).
Students can also join DigiPsych, our on-line magazine run for students by students in the School of Psychology.
DigiPsych publishes anything that may be of interest to psychology students including reviews of psychological and non-psychological articles, stories, and opinion pieces.
Students are also encouraged to network with our alumni.
We have approximately 100 graduates from Psychology, representing a variety of professional roles, offering networking, and mentoring to current students.
We also have a number of active research groups within the School.
These are conducting exciting research into areas such as developmental, cognitive, social, forensic, and psychological health within the School, and you can read more on our Research webpage .
Current research questions being explored by our staff and students include exploring prison and probationary work, courtroom practices, and understanding criminal behaviour.
Lincoln provided me with the best four years of my life.
The staff were supportive, knowledgeable, and always had time for me.
They helped shape and develop my skills so that I was prepared for my career in psychology.
Even now after graduating, they still have time for me.
Verity Harris
BSc (Hons) Forensic Psychology
As a graduate from this degree, you will be well-placed to consider further professional training in psychology This course is designed for those considering a career in forensic settings such as the police, prison, and probation services, or secure health service settings.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/psycpyub:
C840
Understanding mental health is key to working across a range of settings both within and outside of healthcare environments.
Across this course, you can learn about diagnosing mental health disorders, examine factors influencing mental health and wellbeing across the lifespan, and understand vulnerability and resilience in the context of psychological and cognitive process.
The course also explores approaches to treatment, looking at therapy and counselling skills and exploring the theory behind these This degree aligns closely with the Psychology BSc (Hons) degree.
The specialist elements of the programme are taught by a mix of experienced practitioners, researchers, and guest speakers from a variety of backgrounds such as working with those who have complex mental health needs.
Areas of expertise within the teaching staff on the course, include psychobiological mechanism of mental health vulnerability, mindfulness in children, and models of wellbeing.
There is also expertise in areas such as sleep, gambling, and eating disorders across the wider School of Psychology.
These are offered as electives in the third year to enable further specialisation to complement the core mental health programme.
Depending on the level and topic of content, teaching takes place across lectures, seminars, and workshops.
Most modules involve two hours a week timetabled teaching time, and you'll be expected to actively contribute to small group sessions and to undertake independent study.
This module provides an introduction to mental health disorders with regard to their historical context, classification and aetiology.
Based on established theoretical and research context, this course will critically examine a range of approaches to understanding the nature of mental health problems through the use of primary research sources, in order to broaden the students understanding regarding the complexity of this topic and current debate issues in the field.
The specific objectives of the modules are:
- Demonstrate an awareness of the historical development of the concept of abnormality and mental health disorder.
- Be familiar with some of the more prevalent psychological disorders, such as anxiety and mood related disorders and demonstrate an understanding of the stigmatising impact mental health diagnoses can have.
- Have an understanding of the current criteria necessary for a diagnosis of the major psychiatric disorders covered in this module and knowledge of the main diagnostic systems used in health and research settings.
- Describe the role that individual differences and contextual factors can play in mental health and disorder.
This module aims to provide an in depth evaluation of mental health and disorder with regard the role of biological processes.
Based on established theoretical and research context, this course will critically examine a range of biological theories regarding the nature of some of the most common and prevalent mental health problems such as schizophrenia and evaluate the role of the stress response in mental health more widely.
This module will broaden the students understanding regarding the complexity of this topic and current debate issues in the field.
The specific objectives of this module are to:
Critically evaluate some of the main theories regarding biological psychopathology at the genetic, neurochemical and neuroanatomical level.
Apply an understanding of the role of physiological processes such as the stress response system and the immune system in the context of mental health and disorder.
Show detailed understanding of some of the mechanisms by which drug treatments used to treat disorders covered in this module are thought to work at the level of synapse.
Apply principles of drug design and clinical research to the evaluation of drug treatment efficacy in the treatment of specific mental health disorders.
Show a critical understanding of the role that individual differences and contextual factors can play on biological processes considered important to mental health and disorder.
This module aims to develop an understanding of problem formulation used in clinical psychology with a view to undertaking a comprehensive assessment.
Students can critically examine a range of psychological research and theories used in the treatment, therapy and support of people with mental health problems.
The module will cover the relevant evidence for working with different psychological interventions.
It aims to develop an understanding of traditional paradigms of treatment and therapy as well as examining some more recent innovations.
Students will have an opportunity to expand their knowledge of problem formulation.
The assessments at levels one and two aim to focus on the acquisition and understanding of knowledge and skills.
Examples of assessment methods that may be used include coursework, such as written assignments, research reports, research diaries, research or clinical proposals, or dissertations; practical exams, such as oral and poster presentations, performances or observations; and written exams, such as formal examinations, essay-based examinations, or in-class tests (including multiple-choice tests and short-answer questions).
These are conducting exciting research into areas such as mindfulness interventions in adults, the effect of dog-assisted interventions in school children, investigating the impact of calorie menu labelling on those with eating disorders, and neural entrainment of brain rhythms to aid sleep.
Yo u can read more on our Research webpage .
This programme provides Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership of the British Psychological Society (BPS) and as such , you will be well-placed to consider further professional training in psychology .
Graduates of this degree may wish to consider working in range of fields that relate to mental health as well as progressing to postgraduate study , working in healthcare or other settings related to mental health e.g.
charity organisations .
Students can also progress to develop further research expertise through conducting a M Res or PhD or use their transferable skills to contribute more widely outside of the area of mental health .
Lincoln is an extremely supportive and community driven university, with the interests and voice of its students at the heart of the Psychology department.
Lauren Chamberlain-Jones
BSc (Hons) Psychology with Mental Health

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/heaheaub:
5 years
L510
Health and social care practitioners can make a profound difference to the lives of individuals, communities, and wider society and work in a variety of settings including healthcare, education, and public health.
The BSc (Hons) Public Health and Human Behaviour degree at Lincoln takes an integrated approach, combining policy and practice.
It aims to develop the knowledge, skills, and values required to take on many of the new and emerging responsibilities within a range of care sectors.
Across the first year, teaching is broadly focused on understanding people and the communities in which they live.
You are able to analyse the role of health and social care services, policies, practice, and systems alongside building academic skills.
The second year builds on this theme by exploring how we work with people and their communities.
In this year, you can consider ideas such as equality, diversity, human rights, and professional power.
The final year focuses on developing within the healthcare sector and aims to enhance your skills for working with people and communities, including leadership.
Subject area is ranked 2nd overall in the UK*
Strong focus on building employability skills
Access to staff with a wide range of experience in health and social care pra
Opportunities to engage with local organisations to develop knowledge
Core focus on public health and health and social care integration
*Complete University Guide 2025 (out of 32 ranking institutions)
We take a workshop approach to our sessions where students engage in a mixture of traditional lectures and more hands-on learning through activities, discussions, and group tasks.
Students are taught by researchers and academics with both practical experience and professional links in the sector.
The School of Health and Care Sciences maintains close links with health trusts, local authorities, and numerous voluntary and private organisations to ensure that teaching is informed by the latest developments in practice and policy.
The module will develop students understanding of the health and wellbeing  and the impact of ill-health and lifestyle on the human body.
This will include an introduction to  diet and nutrition  as well as an overview of therapy options.
The module will increase students understand of life course development from birth to adulthood.
There will be emphasis on the impact of public health policy and strategy.
This module will develop students academic writing and communication skills.
It will introduce theory and models of communication as well as the concepts of personal and professional values and ethics.
This module introduces the students to a range of sociological theories that relate to health and social care.
It aims to help the students to understand the concepts of neighbourhood and community in relation to the individual and their health.
This module examines alternative approaches to delivery of health and social care .
Students can explore different approaches such as social prescribing and complementary therapies (e.g.
herbal medicine) alongside the roles of Allied Health Professionals (e.g.
Speech and Language Therapy, Occupational Therapy, Art Therapy, Drama Therapy, and Physiotherapy), Social Workers, Nurses and Midwives, Pharmacy, and Medical professionals.
In addition, there is a strong emphasis on the advancement of technology and how this is influencing people’s health and wellbeing as well as the organisations supporting them.
This module takes a holistic approach to exploring our health and wellbeing.
Being able to address issues in society, from daily challenges to complex social problems, requires an understanding of how and why people behave the way they do in relation to both themselves and others.
Building on from understanding human development (year 1), this module aims to introduce students to the concepts of behavioural science, helping them to understand why people behave as they do and how it is possible to influence and change behaviour.
This will focus on how to change problematic behaviours which are impacting on a person’s health and wellbeing.
The module will also focus on exploring mental health and wellbeing and the links to physical health.
This module builds on the year 1 module of understanding communities and facilitates critical understanding of unequal experiences and outcomes in health and social care across a range of intersecting social differences (e.g.
gender, ethnicity, sexuality, income/ class/ location, and disability).
This will be explored through the Wider Determinants of Health lens developing knowledge from year 1.
Students can analyse inequalities and forms of discrimination, as well as the range of factors that can affect health, for example education, health, mental health, criminal justice, immigration, and children’s services.
Equality and rights-based approaches form a framework for analysing the practice implications of recent policies and legal reforms, including the Equality Act (2010), European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) and various United Nations conventions.
This module aims to build on the skills from year 1 and help students to formulate research questions, identify appropriate research methodologies, and be able to communicate a research plan as a proposal and/or protocol.
Students can develop their skills in statistical analysis and learn skills in analysing qualitative data sets.
Academic skills can be enhanced through critical writing skills and moving work from description to analysis.
This module is optional for undergraduate students within the College of Social Sciences.
Study Abroad enables students to spend a period of international study at one of the University’s approved partner institutions.
To be eligible, students must have completed their second year of study to a satisfactory standard, have a good record of attendance and have successfully completed the partner institution's application process to be eligible for this opportunity.
Student participation in the module is subject to availability, places will be awarded on a competitive basis, with criteria provided to applicants in advance.
This module aims to develop cultural awareness to meet the needs of diverse groups within health and social care.
The aim of this module is for students to gain an understanding of health promotion.
This includes developing skills in promoting health and wellbeing, following evidence-based recommendations.
Health promotion initiatives will be explored to uncover the policies, strategies, and techniques used to help promote healthy living in different groups in society.
Students can consider how they can use skills to support people to live healthier lifestyles, considering the importance of empowerment, and choice.
The module builds on the skills from year two in behaviour change to explore how to prevent ill health rather than simply responding to it.
This module aims to develop knowledge of leadership and management theory, applying this information through evaluating approaches to leadership and management in both organisations and in self.
The aim of this module is to enable the students to undertake an independently produced piece of investigative academic work on a chosen area of health and social care.
Students can  explore different approaches such as social prescribing and complementary therapies (e.g.
A variety of assessment strategies are used including formative assessment, essays, reports, poster presentations, reflective journals, group work, in-class tests, multiple choice questions, and examinations.
This degree helped me gain a strong social conscience and political awareness of the impact policy and legislation has on contemporary health and social care services across the UK.
Samuel Welham
BSc (Hons) Health and Social Care
After successful completion of the first year of study, the optional Study Abroad module offers you the chance to participate in an exchange to spend an academic year abroad with a partner organisation.
You'll have the opportunity to explore teaching delivered in another country, which will happen between second and third years of study.
This aims to enhance your employability skills and explore the range of health and social care services available in other countries.
Additionally, there may be opportunities to engage in shorter exchanges through our Global Opportunities Team which includes links to organisations where students can complete a variety of projects to further enhance their employability.
Studying Health and Social Care at Lincoln was life changing.
The course content and quality of teaching was excellent.
It provided me with a sound knowledge and skills base for studying at postgraduate level.
Alice
BSc (Hons) Health and Social Care graduate
You'll have the opportunity to engage with work-based learning opportunities throughout the programme and will receive support to identify suitable opportunities and plan your own professional development.
Work-based learning is linked to modules in all three years of the course and students will build a work-based learning portfolio in order to evidence their experiences.
The type of experience on offer could range from working with people with lived experience or service providers on specified projects, to undertaking work experience within an organisation, local community or group to investigate the application of inclusive service delivery.
This can be undertaken in or outside of term time in Lincoln and the surrounding areas.
You'd be responsible for travel, accommodation, and general living costs while engaged in work-based learning opportunities, however, there may be opportunities to apply for funding to cover some of the costs and the School of Health and Care Sciences will be able to offer support.
96 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Merit, Merit, Merit.
T Level: Pass (A*-C)
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 96 UCAS Tariff points.
International Baccalaureate: 27 points overall.
GCSE's:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above or equivalent, which must include English and Maths.
When you choose Health and Social in your UCAS application, you will be asked an additional question regarding criminal convictions.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/sowpraub:
L501
This full-time, 3-year BSc Social Work Practice offers students a flexible route to qualification as a social worker and will be delivered via a blended learning method of face-to-face and online teaching.
The first year of study is largely preparatory and no practice placements are undertaken.
As the course progresses, complex concepts will be explored alongside developing skills in critical reflection and analysis.
Placements will commence during your second year of study with a 70-day placement, enhanced by a 100-day placement in the final year.
Both placements are full-time and will require full-time attendance.
The regulating body for social workers, Social Work England, require one of the placements to be undertaken in a statutory setting.
Please note, students are responsible for covering the cost of placement including transport, accommodation, and general living expenses.
During both placements, students will be supervised by a Practice Educator who is a qualified social worker and responsible for assessment of the student whilst on placement.
Please note that students are required to pass both placements in order to successfully qualify as a social worker.
This full-time, 3-year BSc Social Work Practice offers students a flexible route to qualification as a social worker and will be delivered via a blended learning method of online and face-to-face teaching.
Subject area ranked in the top 10 for academic support in the UK*
Offers a flexible route to qualification as a social worker
Gain practical experience with placements
Hear from guest speakers including practitioners and carers
Blended learning with face-to-face and online study
*National Student Survey 2024 (out of 78 ranking institutions)
You'll be able to put theory into practice as all academic teaching is geared towards students' understanding, knowledge, and confidence in practice.
You'll benefit from a blended learning approaching on this course, with most of the teaching delivered virtually, and including groupwork and interactive working.
There may also be opportunities for some face-to-face learning during practice-based skills teaching in year one and practice placement days in years two and three.
You'll benefit from a blended learning approaching on this course, with most of the teaching delivered virtually (online), and including groupwork and interactive working.
Assessment methods are utilised to establish and identify the skills that you will need in practice.
You'll be assessed in a variety of ways including written essays, presentations, and a small number of exams.
You'll be assessed in a variety of ways including written essays, portfolios of evidence, presentations, and a small number of exams.
This module is intended to support students in developing an understanding of what we know about people and society.
The module objective is to develop understanding of this knowledge base, with a focus on structural and social perspectives and how these can be applied to work with vulnerable people.
This module aims to provide learners with a framework of theoretical and applied perspectives  for effective social work  with individuals, taking account of contemporary social and societal issues.
It will draw on relevant disciplines and perspectives to help learners understand how society is organised and how social problems arise.
This module allows students to undertake learning that will help them develop the required skills for professional practice and are sufficiently prepared and ready for their professional practice on placement.
Students are required to undertake learning activities and study commensurate with entry level requirements of the Professional Capabilities Framework.
This module is intended to support the student in developing the knowledge, skills, and values that will underpin social work practice.
The focus is on extending the understanding of the professional social work role and task, with a focus on the perspective of service users, carers, and citizens.
There will be a focus on the development of skills and values for professional social work practice and on personal reflection to support this.
This module enable learners to explore the knowledge base (e.g.
theoretical knowledge, legislative knowledge, knowledge around core social work values, and ethics) that underpins their own professional practice and supports learners to reflect on and analyse their own practice.
This module does not apply to standard learners obtaining entry at level four.
The module is suitable only for students undertaking the APL route for accelerated entry to level five of the programme.
Students wishing to APL previous study will be required to undertake supplementary learning to ensure they develop the required skills and knowledge enabling them to progress to level five of the programme and will be offered supplementary teaching and learning on a bespoke, case-by-case basis according to individual previous attainment and assessed learning needs.
This module aims to support the development of social work students to gain professional expertise in working with adults and their carers, who are in need of social care interventions.
In order to achieve this, there will be a focus on understanding, analysing and applying relevant law and policy.
There will also be an opportunity to explore the diverse needs of the adult population including older people, those with physical and learning disabilities, mental health and addiction problems, brain injuries, homelessness, hoarding behaviours, self-neglect and the experiences of asylum seekers and refugees.
This module allows students to undertake 70 days in an audited and approved practice learning setting.
The practice placement will provide a range of learning opportunities that are approved as meeting the BASW Professional Capabilities Framework (PCF) End of First Placement Level Capabilities and the Social Work England Professional Standards.
Students will be required to produce a practice portfolio as evidence of their experiential learning and professional development.
This module provides students with an opportunity to undertake a practice analysis of their work on placement and  demonstrate their accountability and explain the rationale underpinning professional decision-making.
Students are required to demonstrate an analysis of, and their responses to, the diverse needs of service users and carers and the impact of environmental and structural influences.
It also requires students to evidence a keen understanding of the legal and policy frameworks that guide professional judgements.
The module adopts a holistic approach to the wellbeing and development of children and young people.
The module will examine the psycho-social development of children pre-birth through childhood and adolescence.
Students will have the opportunity to combine knowledge, practice skills, and professional values and ethics and will examine a range of factors necessary to safeguard, protect and promote the healthy development and overall wellbeing of children and young people.
This module will offer students the opportunity to draw on learning from level five modules as well as their learning during years one and two.
With support, students are expected to provide evidence of their understanding and application of increasingly complex concepts in their their direct practice with service users, as well as evidencing their ability to undertake self-directed learning, reflection regarding theoretical approaches and models, and application of legislation and statutory guidance appropriate to their practice learning setting.
This module serves to enable the student to consolidate and further develop and apply detailed and evidence informed knowledge about the needs, experiences and circumstances individuals, groups and families that receive social work services.
This module is intended to provide students with the opportunity to explore a variety of knowledge, including sources of evidence and research findings suitable for supporting social work practice.
Students will be required to identify a current social work topic in order to extend their knowledge and apply it to the development of practice.
Students will be able to increase their knowledge through undertaking an independent literature-based study in which they identify, explore and appraise the evidence base relating to their selected topic, including up-to-date research findings.
This module will relate to the work undertaken on practice placement.
Students will be required to complete an inter-professional practice analysis, adopting a holistic, systems-based approach to contemporary social work within the context of inter-professional practice.
Students are required to explore how to maintain professional integrity and combining knowledge, practice skills and professional values and ethics to promote effective social work practice within interprofessional settings.
Placements will be offered by a number of our employer partners, including Lincolnshire County Council Children’s Service, Lincolnshire County Council Adult's Service, Lincolnshire Partnership Foundation Trust, North East Lincolnshire Council, and North Lincolnshire Council.
We encourage applications from students who hold a UK driving licence as Lincolnshire spans a wide geographical area.
Non-driving students may be subject to fewer placement opportunities.
Please also note that you may be required to travel to up to an hour’s travelling time of their home address.
The School has a solid research profile led by our research professors and the University's Research Excellence Framework submission return demonstrated high-quality research spanning a number of areas - particularly around social work and social policy.
Our research interests cover all aspects of the sector and Professor Mo Ray’s research has focused on social work with older people, social gerontology, and health and social care.
To enhance your learning, you may be able to hear from guest speakers, including those with lived experience of using services and carers, social work practitioners, and guest academics.
Graduates will be well-placed to gain employment as registered social workers in the public, private, or voluntary sectors.
The University of Lincoln is a member of the Humber Social Work Teaching Partnership, meaning students will be able to make the most of this partnership in their future careers.
GCSE's:  Minimum of three at grades 4 or above, which must include English and Maths.
We may consider work experience alongside academic qualifications and will review this on and individual basis.
- Successful performance at an interview - Knowledge of contemporary health and social care issues, and the nature of nursing in a public health context.
- Satisfactory completion of Occupational Health Check - Satisfactory completion of an Enhanced Disclosure from the Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) (formerly the Criminal Records Bureau (CRB)).
When you choose Social Work Practice in your UCAS application, you will be asked an additional question regarding criminal convictions.
Further information can be found at http://www.isa-gov.org.uk .
________________________ If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk.
________________________________________
When you choose Social Work in your UCAS application, you will be asked an additional question regarding criminal convictions.
If your application is unsuccessful, you may be offered the option of changing your application to the BSc in Public Health and Human Behaviour.
NHS social work bursaries may be available to applicants, depending on varying criteria.
For more information, please visit https://www.gov.uk/social-work-bursaries

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/solsolub:
52L8
It provides a framework for the study of human behaviour, examining how societies are organised, how social identities are constructed, and the issues facing some of the world's  most marginalised people.
Lincoln's BA (Hons) Sociology degree aims to prepare students with the knowledge, conceptual insights, and  methodological skills so needed in our era of multiple social and political crises.
You'll be encouraged to examine the fabric of different societies, the group dynamics of belonging and exclusion, and the workings of political structures.
This includes - among a wide range of topics covered - studying the changing nature and role of the family unit; how technological advances have transformed the way we interact; what subcultures can teach us about mainstream society; how 'the global' and 'the local' jointly shape everyday lives in the twenty-first Century; how inequalities are experienced and differences created.
The curriculum draws on the expertise of staff from across Lincoln's School of Social and Political Sciences, whose research actively informs contemporary academic and policy debates.
Take part in voluntary and mentoring work
The first year covers key concepts and central themes in the social sciences, whilst also introducing you to the work of influential sociological thinkers.
Alongside this theoretical grounding, you can develop your understanding of the value and particularities of different methodologies underpinning academic research in the social sciences.
Our core modules in the first year are: Sociological Imagination; Social Issues and Social Justice; Applying Research; and Key Social Science Concepts.
In the second year, you can refine your research skills and data analysis techniques further and engage with the sociological canon in more depth, explore important areas of research such as the sociological study of cities, or of inter-generational dynamics and politics.
At the same time, you can shape your learning around your own interests by choosing from a range of optional modules.
Our third-year elective modules give you a wide choice of topics to explore from a variety of distinctly sociological perspectives.
You can also study an area of your own choice and will receive support from a member of the academic team, as well as pursuing your own independent research project to draw on the thematic and conceptual expertise and methodological skills acquired during your studies.
You'll be taught through a range of different pedagogical methods, including lectures, workshops, tutorials and seminars.
The assessments vary from theoretical essays and critical paper reviews to policy briefs, portfolios and podcasts, which aim to provide our students with both theoretical and practical sociological skills.
You will also be assigned their own personal tutor to assist in your studies.
This module introduces students to important questions - and related, illustrative case studies - that lie at the heart of applied sociology and social policy.
Those questions are the following:
1) What is "the social"?
What defines sociological approaches to this distinctive domain of our lived realities?
2) How can sociology and social policy take an active role in (re)shaping social relations, structures and institutions?
This involves an exploration of a diversity of competing positions on how applied sociology and social policy can or arguably should inform political decisions and direct social changes.
3) How can the above questions and debates be illustrated by relevant examples and case studies of sociology in action?
What are some of the areas of wider application of sociological- and social policy knowledge?
How successful have such applications been?
How might sociology and social policy need to adjust to the changing social realities of the twenty-first century?
Assessments currently include coursework, practical exams, and written exams.
The aim of module assessments is to provide a measure of your skills, knowledge, and understanding of the course under study.
It's assessed using a range of methods across the three levels and may include, for example, group-based and individual research projects, group and individual presentations, poster presentations, podcasts, reports, as well as traditional essay and report writing, and examinations.
You'll have the option to undertake voluntary, competitive work placements with a local council, providing the chance to gain experience of a professional policy environment.
You'll be encouraged to obtain placements in industry independently.
Tutors may provide support and advice if required.
The optional Social Engagement module allows you to undertake a field trip that encourages you to undertake one or more external activities relevant to the course to critically reflect on the experience, how it relates to wider institutional structures, and your personal development.
This may involve undertaking voluntary work or mentoring within a service-providing organisation.
All travel, accommodation, and general living expenses associated with the experience will need to be covered by your and the experience is required to consist of a minimum of 30 hours.
Sociology at the University of Lincoln provides the best insight into the organisation of our world and why we interact in the ways we do.
Elliot Kennedy
Sociology students develop a very wide range of transferable skills relevant to a range of diverse private and public employment sectors, including local and national governments, education, research, and the media.
You can develop skills that are relevant to a range of employment sectors, including local and national government, education, research, and the media.
Some graduates may choose to pursue careers in policy development, social work, or campaigning, while others may opt to study further at postgraduate level.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/medaupub:
J933
This specialist degree enables you to develop the required industry production skills for a career in audio postproduction (film, TV, and animation), radio, and music.
We have strong relationships with industry including a recent partnership with the iconic Abbey Road Studios in London.
You can participate in workshops with industry professionals at Abbey Road Studios which will form an integral part of your learning and development.
Our industry partnerships have led to students securing audio positions with the BBC, Channel 4, Sky, The Church Studios, Pinewood Studios, Fonic, and Sweet Justice Sound, as well as freelance roles.
Underpinned by theory and research, this programme enables you to think critically and creatively about sound alongside gaining hands-on skills in order to prepare you for individual creative practice, further study, or careers in education and research.
Previous students have pursued Master's degrees at institutions including the Berklee School of Music.
Teaching staff include a mix of industry-connected professionals and academic researchers who contribute their knowledge and experience to provide a comprehensive understanding of sound as it applies to music, radio, and postproduction industry and culture.
You can also benefit from guest lectures and masterclasses delivered by industry experts.
Previous guest lecturers include Andy Barlow (producer for U2), Tony Platt (recording engineer AC/DC), and Alannah Chance (producer BBC radio).
You'll be able to develop and hone your skills in our professional industry-standard recording and radio broadcast studios, sound theatre, and edit suites, using industry-standard audio software such as Pro Tools, iZotope, Logic and Adobe Suite.
Each student receives their own copy of Avid Pro Tools for the duration of the course enabling them to work on or off campus to develop their skills and portfolio.
There may be opportunities to learn official AVID courseware and have the option to become AVID certified through external examinations (subject to availability).
Opportunities are available to volunteer for the University's digital audio platform, as well as potentially secure experience and paid work in live sound through our on-campus performance venue, The Engine Shed.
Underpinned by theory and research, this programme enables you to think critically and creatively about sound.
Our facilities, such as industry-standard recording and radio broadcast studios, sound theatre, and edit suites, allow you to get hands-on experience using industry-standard audio software such as Pro Tools, iZotope, Logic, and Adobe Suite.
You can learn from an expert team made up of industry-connected professionals and academic researchers, as well as benefit from guest lectures and masterclasses delivered by industry experts.
We have strong relationships with industry including a partnership with the iconic Abbey Road Studios in London.
You can participate in workshops with industry professionals at Abbey Road Studios which may form an integral part of your learning and development.
1st
Music at Lincoln is ranked 1st in the UK for teaching*
Opportunities to gain paid work experience on campus
Learn from staff and guest speakers directly connected to industry
Option to participate in sessions at Abbey Road Studios
Receive your own copy of Avid Pro Tools for the duration of the course
Industry-standard professional studios and edit suites
*National Student Survey 2024 (out of 68 ranking institutions)
On this course, students can develop their knowledge, theory, and practice of sound and music production.
This culminates in their own independent projects (two advanced pieces of client-based practice work), along with an extended piece of academic work in the form of a dissertation.
In your first year, you will undertake a selection of core practical and theoretical modules to provide you with a solid foundation in sound as it applies to postproduction, radio, and music production.
There will be opportunities for you to book our recording spaces for collaboration with students from film production, animation, journalism, and music.
In your second year, you can focus on your key areas of interest (post, radio, and/or music) through elective modules.
Additionally, you will also prepare for your final-year dissertation through design of your major research project.
Your final year will enable you to bring together all of your previous creative, practical, and theoretical studies to produce two major client-based sound project portfolios, as well as complete your dissertation on your key area of interest.
For students who are interested in studying abroad, there may be the option to take part in an exchange programme in the USA.
Please note that fees for the placement are included but travel, accommodation, and general living costs are the responsibility of the student.
Our students were able to experience a day in the life of some of the world’s most eminent record producers and performers during their time at Abbey Road Studios.
Industry professionals on hand to lend their support to the students included Abbey Road engineer Paul Pritchard.
Paul has worked with some of the biggest recording artists in history, including Paul McCartney, Elton John and Freddie Mercury.
In this module students are invited to investigate the practices and creative possibilities of working within a desktop music and sound design production environment.
This will involve MIDI programming, composition of basic musical and rhythmic arrangements, sound design, sound effects and an introduction to software instruments, synthesis, sampling techniques and digital signal processing.
Key Concepts in Sound introduces ideas, terms and approaches relevant to the study and critical analysis of sound, listening and audio practice.
Drawing upon critical and philosophical texts, art practices, and historical accounts, the module takes an interdisciplinary approach to the sonic, situating it in relation to its political, geographical and cultural contexts.
The modules aims to interrogate sound's associations and intersections with other sensory media; the auditory dimensions of identity, power, and technology; and the relationship between sonic experience, time and space.
Key Concepts in Sound also aims to develop students’ critical thinking and research skills, providing them with an opportunity to engage in research-led learning.
This module aims to provide an introduction to the multi-track studio environment in which students can identify and employ digital audio recording, editing and mixing techniques and technologies.
The study of listening skills essential to the perception of audio quality will be introduced and can be developed along with the practical and technical elements necessary for studio-based audio and music production.
Practices of Recording is a theory/practice module, designed to introduce students to a variety of approaches to sound recording and their historical, social and political contexts.
This module aims to broaden students’ perspectives of what audio recording might entail.
Emphasis here is placed on recording practices and techniques that occur ‘beyond’ the studio and music production.
This module is designed to introduce students to the principles and practices of working with sound.
The module aims to develop knowledge of the sound wave, acoustics, human hearing, auditory perception, microphones and digital audio standards such as file formats, storage and playback.
Basic Pro Tools recording, editing and audio manipulation techniques are also introduced.
This module aims to give students a basic understanding of the practical and technical skills used during radio production.
Students are encouraged to think creatively and will work to present audio content for an identified radio audience reflecting current industry practice.
This module is designed to provide an overview of current industry techniques and practices, including an understanding the route from edit platforms to final sound mix; cleaning up and replacing original recorded sound; recording and placing commentary, dialogue, effects and music editing; and the addition of creative elements to create aural landscapes for still or moving images.
Music and sound effects library sources, server based libraries and importing and exporting audio files, sourcing, cataloguing and sifting.
This module aims to contextualise students’ production practices by introducing them to the ways in which both media and music institutions within the creative and cultural industries are organised.
The module aims to explore and examine key issues in the history and current organisation of, and possible changes in, the cultural industries as institutions and practices.
Students have the opportunity to develop an understanding of the legal, ethical, regulatory, and self-regulatory frameworks within which they operate.
In this module, we consider research as a process that informs both ‘practice’ (broadly defined) and ‘theory’.
This module enables students to engage with methods for researching audiences, institutions and auditory culture; and primary sources such as digital data, film, television and video game soundtracks and archival materials.
We will critically reflect on various stages of the research process, including formulating research questions and objectives; developing a literature review; selecting appropriate methods; and considering research ethics.
In doing so, this module prepares students for their Level 3 Independent Study Project, as well as their Level 3 Audio Projects and Creative Enterprise/Creative Industries Case Study.
The module is designed to examine and analyse the use of audio and music in the cultural industries.
Specifically, the increasing importance of sonic branding in media networks, corporate branding and advertising.
Audiences and consumers are mostly aware when they are a target for advertising and/or branding, but equally may have an unconscious understanding of the message.
A number of key questions centre on the cultural effects of advertising and branding for example the salience of music in order to identify with and promote a brand: note the yearly and eagerly awaited John Lewis Christmas ads.
Similarly, how does one know one is listening to specific BBC or commercial radio station just from the jingles or station sound?
The module explores these questions in two ways: firstly, by providing the opportunity to understand how these messages are constructed and more specifically how the use of audio and music differentiates a brand from its competitors, and secondly, by researching and understanding the creative process of sonic branding production in an industry context.
Students are encouraged to apply these ideas via the application of branding and audience research in order to pitch a short piece of created audio designed from a specific brief.
This module focuses on the development of students’ music mixing and mastering skills to enable the completion and presentation of their music productions in a professional manner.
The module builds upon the core production and mix skills learned at level one but places greater emphasis on technical accuracy and sonic contextualisation of their work.
Students will be required to mix and master a range of musical material and deliver this as a portfolio of work.
This module enables students to develop a range of music production skills, approaches and techniques that are relevant to the dynamic and challenging environment of the current recorded music industry.
The module builds upon the core tracking and production skills learned at level one but places a greater emphasis on sonic aesthetics and overall project delivery.
Students will be required to make high quality recordings and then develop the sonic properties of these recording by applying various industry standard music production techniques appropriate to a devised brief.
This module expects students to produce an advanced concept-led project using the technologies centred upon audio, music and/or broadcast formats.
It provides an opportunity to produce work to an advanced level of creativity and technique, in a practice based medium, and will offer opportunities to undertake interdisciplinary production.
This module aims to prepare students for careers in the music industry by helping to build an understanding of the research approaches and skills for professional communications, marketing, and distribution of sound and music products .
Assignments on this module are designed to help students explore working within the sound and music industries and help inform their personal development.
This module will introduce students to a range of professional skills and research approaches relevant to understanding how the sound and music organisations are structured, network, operate and function.
The assignments are geared towards exploring the context of working within the sound and music creative industries and to inform their personal development as professionals.
The Audio Independent Study dissertation is the culmination of each student's undergraduate investigation into the structures and debates surrounding cultural production and takes the form of an extended essay.
The chosen subject will facilitate involvement with issues relevant to contemporary media practice.
We are excited to announce that our courses have received JAMES (Joint Audio Media Education Support) accreditation.
This recognition from industry professionals ensures our students benefit from a curriculum that meets the highest standards of the music and media industries, ensuring they are well-prepared for their careers.
Students have the opportunity to hear from those working in the industry on optional field trips
Assessment on this course is by a range of practical production projects both individually and within groups, and includes presentations and essays, reports, and case studies.
The way students are assessed on this course may vary for each module, but there are no exams across the course.
Students on this course have access to a range of specialist equipment, including two multi-channel recording studios for music and drama production; two dubbing theatres for audio post-production for film, TV, games, and animation; the University's digital audio platform; three radio production studios; music rehearsal rooms; and several audio edit suites with an extensive range of editing and audio processing software.
High-end mobile kit is available for sound and field recording on location.
All Sound and Music Production students can currently use Pro Tools software and have access to Ableton Live Suite and Adobe Creative Cloud software, including Audition, for the duration of their studies.
There may be opportunities throughout the course to volunteer for the University's digital audio platform, as well as potentially secure experience and paid work in live sound through our on-campus performance venue, The Engine Shed.
Find out more on the Film and Media subject webpage .
This course aims to equip graduates for a wide range of roles in music production, radio, film, and TV, games, animation, mobile and web applications, audio engineering, and audio event management.
Lincoln graduates have gone on to work for the BBC, Channel 4, The Church Studios, Fonic audio post production, Sweet Justice Game Audio, Pinewood Studios, and Sky.
Congratulations to graduate Dan Hibbert for winning the ‘Outstanding Achievement in Sound Editing' Verna Fields Award at the 70th Motion Picture Sound Editors Golden Reel Awards, for his work on the National Film and Television School graduate film 'Brutal'.
Dan specialised in Sound Post-Production and went on to study this subject at postgraduate level at the National Film and Television School following his time at Lincoln.
There are funds currently available within the School to students at all levels to provide support with such projects.
Students are responsible for travel, accommodation, and general living costs while undertaking work experience, study abroad, or internships.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/sessesub:
C600
Our BSc Sport and Exercise Science degree is a multi-disciplinary course which combines theoretical knowledge with the practical application of scientific principles.
Whilst studying this course, you can participate in a wide range of topics relating to sport and exercise science, developing knowledge, understanding, and practical skills in key areas of physiology, biomechanics, psychology, and nutrition.
Accredited and experienced teaching staff deliver research informed teaching and practice on a range of areas, from applied athletic performance to supporting health and wellbeing.
Practical sessions within the course help you to contextualise theory, and you will have access to our purpose-built Human Performance Centre.
This industry-standard facility includes bespoke physiology laboratories, a biomechanics laboratory, and specific practical spaces to support modules on gym instruction and personal training.
This degree is endorsed by the British Association of Sport and Exercise Science (BASES), the UK's professional body for sport and exercise sciences, with additional endorsement from The Chartered Institute for the Management of Sport and Physical Activity (CIMSPA) for gym instructor and personal trainer modules.
This degree is endorsed by the British Association of Sport and Exercise Science (BASES), the UK's professional body for sport and exercise sciences, and has modules with additional endorsement from The Chartered Institute for the Management of Sport and Physical Activity (CIMSPA).
CIMSPA endorsed modules for Gym Instructor and Personal Trainer
Modules led and taught by CASES and CIMSPA accredited staff members
Endorsed by the Chartered Association of Sport and Exercise Science (CASES)
Opportunities to apply theoretical understanding and gain practical knowledge
This degree reflects current research-informed teaching and innovation within the sector.
The first year of the programme is designed to provide the essential foundations of sport and exercise science theory, completing four sport science-specific modules across the key disciplines of biomechanics, psychology, physiology and nutrition, and one broader module to develop their research skills.
Whilst these disciplines continue into the second year of study, the context of each module becomes even more applied than first year as the emphasis shifts towards students converting their knowledge of theory into applied practice.
There is also the opportunity to start to individualise the specific mix of modules taken relating to physiology and nutrition depending on each students' preferences and longer-term plans - selecting three options from Applied Health Physiology, Applied Exercise Physiology, Exercise Instruction and Nutrition for Health and Performance.
In the third year, you can tailor the degree to your own preferences and future plans, and choose three from a selection of seven optional modules to study across a range of disciplines and contexts.
This is alongside the completion of your final year dissertation which gives you the chance to apply research skills developed in your first two years, to plan and complete a specific research project relating to a topic you're interested in.
We want to ensure our students to become the best graduates they can be, and in addition to interactive lectures and seminars, weekly laboratory and/or practical sessions, guest speakers, web-based activities, and staff-student research projects, we encourage students to deliver sports science workshops to school groups and sports clubs, and undertake their own independent research ideas (e.g.
dissertation), and offer a wide range of voluntary applied sports science roles.
Each of our students is also paired up with a member of staff as their personal tutor from the very first week of enrolment, in order to help them settle in, discuss issues or questions they have, and to help guide and develop their academic growth and extracurricular experience towards any post-degree plans they may have.
There is also the opportunity to start to individualise the specific mix of modules taken relating to physiology and nutrition depending on each students' preferences and longer-term plans - selecting three options from Applied Health Physiology, Applied Exercise Physiology, Exercise Instruction, Physical Activity and Health, and Nutrition for Health and Performance.
Alternatively, students can choose to substitute one of these optional modules for a Placement (Sport & Exercise Science) module, which would allow students to undertake a one term placement in a relevant area.
Along-side these discipline focused modules, students will also continue to pursue an Advanced Research Skills module, designed to prepare students for their independent project in third year.
In the third year, you can tailor the degree to your own preferences and future plans, by choosing three from a selection of seven optional modules to study across a range of disciplines and contexts.
We want to ensure our students become the best graduates they can be, and in addition to interactive lectures and seminars, weekly laboratory and/or practical sessions, guest speakers, web-based activities, and staff-student research projects, we encourage students to deliver sports science workshops to school groups and sports clubs, undertake their own independent research ideas (e.g.
Each of our students is also paired with a member of staff as their personal tutor from the very first week of enrolment, in order to help them settle in, discuss issues or questions they have, and to help guide and develop their academic growth and extracurricular experience towards any post-degree plans they may have.
This programme is endorsed by the Chartered Association of Sport and Exercise Science (CASES), the UK's professional body for sport and exercise sciences.
This accreditation recognises degrees which incorporate the knowledge, skills and professional development opportunities that are considered essential for sport and exercise science students to succeed in the industry.
Students can benefit from guest lectures from a variety of guest lecturers.
Previous lectures have included a session on genetics from Dr Ian Varley and sessions on coronary heart disease from Dr Jo Blackwell, a visiting fellow at the University of Lincoln.
This programme is endorsed by The Chartered Institute for the Management of Sport and Physical Activity (CIMSPA) for the roles of Gym Instructor and Personal Trainer.
This module seeks to examine the mechanics of human movement, identifying the internal and external forces acting on the human body and the effects of these forces.
Particular emphasis will be placed on applying the theoretical principles of biomechanics to sport and exercise.
The specific objectives are to:
- Provide an opportunity to develop an understanding of the basic principles of biomechanics.
- Investigate the relationship between the theoretical principles of biomechanics and sports performance.
- Introduce students to the basic laboratory techniques for the biomechanical assessment of motion.
This module introduces the key terminology and the scientific principles in human nutrition, metabolism and digestion.
Importantly, both structure and function of all essential nutrients are covered alongside recommendations on dietary reference values (DRVs) for the population.
Furthermore, basic molecular and cell biology are incorporated to better understand current and future developments in this field.
Practical components will explore public health guidance on nutrition including, estimating portion sizing, food labelling and food choice education/skills training.
This module aims to provide the opportunity for students to develop a basic knowledge of the structure and function of the human body.
The module seeks to focus on anatomical, biochemical and physiological integration necessary for human movement production.
Initial examination aims to develop an understanding of structures and processes relating to biological energy processing and systems, and the relationship between anatomical structures and physical functions.
Students have the opportunity to develop an integrated systems approach to human movement, examining endocrine, neural and muscular functions required for movement initiation.
This module aims to introduce students to key concepts and theories that describe and explain the importance of psychology in sport, exercise and physical activity settings.
There is a focus on supporting students to understand how and why psychological factors are related to issues such as performance outcomes, participation rates and wellbeing.
In particular, students will have the opportunity to examine the influence of thoughts, feelings and behaviours on various outcome measures (success, enjoyment etc.), and how these same variables can change as a result of experiences within sport and exercise.
This module aims to enable students to build on practical knowledge and skills gained at level one within the Biomechanical Basis of Human Movement module.
It aims to include a discussion of how to assess human movement through different kinetic, kinematic and performance analysis techniques and the delivery of application of theoretical concepts to practical sport assessment.
This module aims to give students the opportunity to consolidate and expand their knowledge of the foundations of sport physiology developed at level one, by encouraging the application of the fundamental principles of anatomy and physiology.
There is an emphasis on practical skills development with the aim of enabling students to evaluate responses to exercise in a laboratory and field environment.
Students have the opportunity to apply the generic principles of sports physiology to different athletic groups in order to develop an appreciation of suitable methods of fitness development and adaptations to training prescription.
The aim of this module is to examine the relationship between physical activity and health, understanding the health problems that are caused by inactivity and their pathophysiology.
Students can learn both the risks and benefits of physical activity, understanding the contraindications to exercise for a range of special population groups.
Students will be supported in the measurement of health-related fitness for sedentary individuals and make suitable recommendations for exercise in order to benefit health.
This module aims to enable students to develop an understanding of the underpinning theory and skills required to be able to competently instruct different modalities of exercise pertaining to free weight exercises and cardiovascular/resistance machines.
The Nutrition for Health and Performance module seeks to further develop the knowledge and skills required for students to effectively assess the diet and nutritional status of a client.
The module will explore a range of dietary intake measures, body composition assessment methods and dietary analysis software tools, as well the relative strengths and weaknesses of associated methods and tools.
Importantly, the practical elements of this module will allow students to develop the interpersonal/relationship building skills required for effective client interaction in performance nutrition and/or health contexts.
This module aims to encourage students to consider the options open to them upon graduation and prepare for life after University of Lincoln.
This module will also allow students to develop organisational, communication and applied knowledge and skills for their 3rd year dissertation module.
This optional module provides students with an opportunity to develop their ability to carry out independent research and consultancy activities in the area of sport and exercise biomechanics.
Seeking to build upon the knowledge gained at previous levels, this module introduces specialised techniques to assess performance and the wider issues surrounding support work.
- Provide an opportunity to develop proficiency in the use of advanced quantitative biomechanical systems to analyse and evaluate human performance.
- Provide the opportunity to develop an advanced understanding of the use of biomechanics in supporting and developing performance within elite athletes.
- Critically analyse recent and possible future developments in sports biomechanics.
This optional module aims to draw upon prior knowledge and practical experience in sport and exercise nutrition and sport physiology.
- Integrate these disciplines to enhance understanding of the demands of sport and exercise and specialist conditions upon nutritional requirements.
- Provide an opportunity to develop understanding of the relationship between the health requirements of daily nutritional intake and optimal sports performance.
- Provide the opportunity to develop practical skills for the assessment of nutritional intake, hydration status, energy balance and body composition.
- Improve ability to translate individual nutritional needs of different sports performers and specialist populations into appropriate dietary strategies and daily nutritional prescription.
This optional module aims to encourage students to apply knowledge and understanding of the physiological systems active during exercise, at fatigue and following training, to the performance and specific requirements of different athletes.
The specific objectives of this module are to:
- Provide the opportunity to develop an understanding and experience of physiological intervention and sports science support models as accepted tools for the performance development of the competitive athlete.
- Provide the opportunity to gain relevant vocational experience in relation to physiological assessment and training prescription.
- Prepare students academically and vocationally for future work in terms of knowledge, planning, understanding, research and assessment.
This elective module aims to explore the prescription of exercise to benefit specific medical conditions.
It draws upon the theoretical issues and practical skills delivered at level two when exploring physical activity and health.
Students have the opportunity to employ vocationally relevant skills in the health assessment of a client, designing and delivering an exercise programme to benefit a specified medical condition.
Students can explore healthcare systems, critically examining roles and responsibilities and the use of evaluation.
This optional module includes a placement that is linked to the module assessment.
Students who choose to take this module will be responsible for their travel, accommodation and general living costs during the placement.
This interdisciplinary module is designed to build on prior knowledge of exercise instruction, and the anatomical and physiological processes of sport and exercise physiology related to the planning, prescription and delivery of a specific exercise programme.
This optional interdisciplinary module aims to build on prior knowledge of anatomical and physiological processes of the musculoskeletal system, and the testing and evaluation of sports performance.
- Provide students with the opportunity to develop a comprehensive knowledge of the strength and conditioning environment and factors to consider within the support of athletes.
- Provide students with the chance to develop a critical understanding and appreciation of strength and conditioning programmes to enable effective delivery, implementation and evaluation.
- Prepare students academically and vocationally for future work in terms of knowledge, understanding, research, assessment and planning.
The staff at Lincoln are fantastic, everyone is always happy to answer any questions students may have in order to develop their learning.
Due to how the programme is taught, I feel that students develop a nice student-staff relationship, which definitely helps engagement with course content and learning materials.
Callum Andrews
BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Science
At the end of your second year, you'll have the option to apply to complete a placement year in industry (e.g.
professional sports club), or a study abroad year at one of our partner institutions, as part of the degree.
The placement year is a full-time position in a role relevant to your studies and is an excellent opportunity to gain relevant work experience.
For students undertaking a placement or a study abroad year, a Placement Year Fee is payable to the University of Lincoln.
Students who require a visa to study in the UK must remain compliant with the conditions of that visa for a placement year.
Our International Advice Team are on hand in Lincoln to help you understand what any limitations might be, so that we can ensure you can make the most of any opportunities available to you.
Our ongoing partnership with Lincoln City FC offers you opportunities to undertake work placement or internship opportunities, as well as providing a potential pathway for full-time employment after you graduate.
Students can support pre-season fitness testing with Lincoln City Women FC and gain hands-on experience through the delivery of fitness testing.
There are also plenty of opportunities for sport and exercise science students to engage with our in-house consultancy team , delivering high-quality sport science support to a variety of sport and health professionals.
Our Human Performance Centre offers dedicated practical and teaching spaces including physiology laboratories, a psychology laboratory, consultation suites, and specific practical spaces to support exercise instruction and referral work.
Our experienced staff have academic and professional expertise in a range of areas including sport and exercise physiology, sports biomechanics, sports psychology, coach education, and sports nutrition.
High-profile sports organisations have used the facilities, including British Canoeing and British Ice Skating.
Staff within the school have been so supportive, whether it be personal tutor, lecturing staff or support staff, they are always on hand to answer your questions.
They have helped me develop my own personal qualities and skills and helped me to apply these in interviews for my career next steps.
Jess Haylock
Assessment methods used include written examinations, multiple choice examinations, written assignments, lab reports, presentations, practical assessments, and short-format assessments.
Assessment methods used include written assignments, lab reports, presentations, practical assessments, and some written examinations or multiple-choice tests.
Alongside more traditional methods of assessment, staff also strive to include innovative assessment strategies that reflect the dynamic nature of the industry, such as e-posters, or video-based professional learning platforms for blogs depending on selected modules.
Given the wide range of transferable skills students gain through this programme, our graduates have gone onto exciting careers such as: sport and exercise psychologist, specialist respiratory physiotherapist, strength and conditioning coach, health and wellbeing coach, cardiac rehabilitation exercise physiologist, and football development officer (disability and inclusion).
Students can also undertake further study.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/sessthub:
C630
Sports therapy is a dynamic field and therapists are a crucial part of musculoskeletal healthcare as well as in medical teams at many sports clubs, working alongside physios, sports medicine doctors, and sports scientists.
BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Therapy at Lincoln provides an academic degree alongside a vocational qualification, offering you the chance to develop the skills needed to work within the sports therapy industry.
You can learn how to apply sports science knowledge and principles to the assessment and treatment of injuries within a sporting context.
As well as focusing on the theory and practice of sports therapy, you'll have the chance to develop your understanding of anatomy and physiology, biomechanics, and health-related fitness.
The degree has been developed in response to the increasing role that sports therapy can play in improving health.
Upon successful completion, you'll be able to assess athletes with a wide variety of musculoskeletal sports injuries, understand the application of sports therapy treatments, and implement rehabilitation and injury prevention programmes.
The course has been developed in collaboration with The Society of Sports Therapists, an accrediting regulatory body for sports therapy programmes.
Accredited by The Society of Sports Therapists
Gain experience in the sports massage clinic
The degree reflects current research informed teaching and innovation within the sector.
Academic staff have a range of professional experience, from working clinically to sports therapy roles within professional sports teams.
The first year is designed to provide a solid knowledge-base, introducing sports therapy alongside sports science theory and concepts such as anatomy and physiology.
Second year teaching builds on skills in sports therapy and provides the opportunity to convert theoretical sport science knowledge into practice.
In the third year, the course combines core and optional modules, which aim to develop understanding of advanced sport therapy treatments while allowing students to focus on the topics that are of most interest to them.
Across the three years of study students will experience a wide range of delivery methods including lectures, seminars, practical labs and clinic work.
This course has been developed in collaboration with The Society of Sports Therapists, an accrediting regulatory body for sports therapy programmes.
This module aims to introduce core knowledge and skills required in order to work safely and effectively as a sports therapist.
Both practical and theoretical delivery will help prepare students to understand key concepts around pathology, common sports injuries and associated risk factors, the initial stages of peripheral joint assessment and the healing process related to different tissues within the body.
Students will review current up to date research when applying a clinical and justified approach to practice.
This module provides students with the basic skills and understanding around the subject of sports therapy, focussing on injury related pathology and physiology and begin to expose the students to vital knowledge and skills required when working in a clinical or sports team settings.
Learning and teaching will aim to introduce the roles and responsibilities of a sports therapist, theoretical and practical competencies of sports massage and fundamentals of pitchside first aid and sports trauma management.
This module aims to provide a basic introduction to the structure and function of key anatomical features of the human body, particularly those associated with the action of the musculoskeletal and nervous systems.
As such, the aim is for students to develop their knowledge of anatomical concepts and terminology which are essential in understanding both function and dysfunction during human movement – in order to be able to apply this knowledge in their future applied practice.
Both peripheral and spinal regions will be considered, and students will be introduced to basic objective assessments that might help identify common sites of dysfunction in sport and exercise-related populations.
This module aims to continue to develop core practical and clinical skills required to work as a sports therapist.
These skills will allow the student to work safely and effectively with an injured individual providing initial assessment and treatment to a range of common peripheral limb sporting injuries.
These skills will be developed through teaching of key theory relating to pathology, assessment and treatment of upper and lower limb injuries along with clinical practice in a supervised environment.
Through this module students will be able to evaluate the psychological factors that affect an individual's risk of and response to sports injury.
Students will be able to understand the role that intervention strategies can play in facilitating an individual's rehabilitation and expediting their successful return to competitive sport.
The module will also consider the processes following sport injury such as post-traumatic growth, as well as other related factors including career-transitions and termination.
This module provides the student with the appropriate skills and knowledge to design and implement exercise rehabilitation programmes for a variety of sports injuries.
Students can develop their critical evaluation skills by exploring the evidence that underpins exercise therapy.
The ability to appropriately progress or regress exercise programmes based on objective tests will be explored and they will develop an understanding of the role of the multi-disciplinary team in long term rehabilitation.
This module provides the student with the more advanced skills and knowledge required to practice as a Sports Therapist.
Other wider  professional and ethical issues around being a sports therapist will also be explored.
Interventions will typically include the assessment and treatment of the spine, spinal joint mobilisations, advanced sports trauma management skills and the appropriate use of electrotherapy modalities.
Students can develop their critical evaluation skills and treatment techniques alongside supervised clinical practice within the in-house sports injury clinic.
This module provides the student with the opportunity to develop and practice their skills and knowledge in a supervised clinical setting.
Students will have the opportunity to practice within the in-house sports injury clinic and be supported obtaining external placements to achieve a minimum of 200 hours work experience.
Students will work with a variety of sports and clinics treating athletes and patients of all ages and backgrounds.
Skills will be developed through teaching, observing practitioners, reflective practice and applying treatment and rehabilitation programmes under supervision.
Codes of conduct, performance and ethics will be adhered to at all times.
Based on optional module s selected and the grades achieved within these modules , sport and exercise therapy students can opt to undertake additional optional awards in Gym Instruction and Personal Training that are industry- recognised by CIMSPA ( additional fee associated) further expanding career path options.
In order to comply with the requirements of The Society of Sports Therapists, students will be required to accumulate 200 hours of supervised clinical placements in a variety of settings.
Students are primarily responsible for finding a placement and covering costs associated such as travel, whilst academics may be able to support the process of a c quiring a placement.
Checks will be conducted prior to placement commencement to ensure the suitability of the placement to the needs of the student and suitability to the scope of practice of a sports therapist.
You can gain practical experience of providing exercise therapy in a real-world, professional setting by taking part in the University of Lincoln Sports Massage Clinic in the second year.
The clinic provides University staff and students access to massage treatments for pre- and post-sport performance, post-injury recovery, or general maintenance of physical and mental wellbeing.
In the third year you can take part in the Sports Injury Clinic which allows staff and students to access musculoskeletal injury assessment, advice, treatment, and rehabilitation for a range of injuries.
Both clinics operate under supervision of a qualified practitioner and the clinical experience contributes to the placement hours required on the course
Assessment methods used on this course include written examinations, multiple choice examinations, written assignments, lab reports, presentations, practical assessments, and short-format assessments.
Graduate roles might include working as self-employed sports therapists or within professional sports clubs or private practice.
Further opportunities may exist in the health and sport sectors or through research careers.
When you choose Sport and Exercise Therapy in your UCAS application, you will be asked an additional question regarding criminal convictions.
___________________________________________ Non UK Qualifications:

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/sbmsbmub:
N290
Sport is a social and economic phenomenon and this degree has been designed to examine critically the business decisions that shape this lucrative global industry.
From the outset, the programme focuses on the business and management of the sports sector, and explores the culture, policy, impact, and delivery of sporting opportunities, particularly in a commercial context.
It aims to develop students' skills for the critical analysis of sport, sport spaces, products, services, and operations.
The course examines the breadth and power of sports participation and business on individuals and societies.
It looks at the global structure of sports and the complexities, challenges, and issues that are often involved in reconciling government objectives with personal and community aspirations.
Optional study visits to sports industry destinations
Hear from industry experts and sports business practitioners
Work on client-based projects and sports research
Choose from a wide range of optional modules
During the first and second years, students are able to study sport-specific modules to further their understanding of the sector, and grasp the foundations of sports management and sports studies.
Modules on finance, sports club management, marketing, organisational behaviour, and visitor experiences underpin students' learning.
During their final year, students can choose to work on client projects or develop their own independent, sports-focused research.
Students on this course are able to take a year-long work placement after their second year, providing a chance to gain experience and apply their learning in practice.
Harry is the Male and Disability Football Development Officer at Wiltshire FA, after securing a placement here during his time on the course.
"My time at Lincoln was amazing.
The placement helped get my foot in the door and give me valuable industry experience.
The course was a driving force for me to get into the sports industry and the modules I undertook gave me the knowledge to succeed in my current role.”
This module introduces the students to the business of sport.
Students can gain an understanding of the contexts within which sport business managers operate and the technological changes and innovations which affect the way sport is experienced, viewed, and managed.
The globalisation of sport business is explained along with changing governance structures.
There is a focus on the impact of participation and the drivers and barriers the population face as Sports Business Managers need to be aware of the changing landscape of sport.
There is an ever-increasing demand to deliver effective sports management at international, nation, regional and local levels.
This requires systems with accountable delivery mechanisms.
Sport no longer stands alone and there is an increasing need to work in partnership with other stakeholders.
These partnerships not only provide a complex network structuring the management of sport business, but also pressure it to be sustainable, equitable, and empowering.
This module is designed to offer students an introduction to the world of sports business management and for them to consider and reflect on the range of impacts sports can have within business.
A lecture programme will frame and set out the main content of this module’s syllabus, while seminars will provide a student-centred learning approach to be applied across topic areas.
Guest lectures will provide students with an added understanding of management issues from a practitioner perspective.
Students can develop skills in discussing and describing the dynamic concepts of sports business management alongside learning how to present and portray their understanding through presentation software.
The module will be assessed by an individual digital presentation (for example Adobe Spark) allocated to 100% of the module mark.
The individual digital presentation will utilise presentation software and will be created to allow the students to demonstrate their understanding of one of the key themes outlined within the module handbook.
The module examines significant areas of club activity including participation, fan engagement, community interaction, and event/ tournament management.
The module also examines legal and financial considerations in the management of members and memberships, players, staff and visitors.
Analysing sports business challenges incorporates contemporary considerations such as environmental impact, sustainability, responsible management, safeguarding, equality, diversity, inclusion, social injustice and community issues.
This module will examine the complex and intersecting social and cultural world in which sport belongs.
The physical, emotional and social space that sport is rooted within provides the basis for this module which explores the intricate way that athletes and sporting stakeholders engage with sports culture.
This module will critically examine international contemporary sports business management issues and how these relate to wider socio-cultural issues.
This module is designed to explore the development of governance and policy for sport within a business environment.
The evolution of sports policy development will be investigated and will provide the historical context on which this module is based.
The important role of national agencies in developing their governance structures and policies will be considered in some detail at local, regional, national and international levels.
Furthermore, sport policy, planning, and governance will be a key focus of this module and the relationships between the different sectors will be addressed.
Theoretical examinations will be based on sociological, financial, political, and economic principles in relation to the position of sport in society.
Students are encouraged to research a range of contemporary issues in sport policy and planning formulation and where possible to relate them to industrial practices.
The lecture will be theoretically based and used to provide insight and depth to the socio-political world surrounding sports governance.
The seminar activities will provide a student-centred learning approach and are designed to provide relevant, critical content in a collaborative manner.
Students will be enabled to uncover their unconscious biases and will conduct wider research and reading into diverse ethnic, racial, social, and cultural perspectives which are ingrained within the governance structures and help shape the structure of policies.
This module will be assessed by two individual assessments.
A policy brief (worth 30% of the overall grade) will critically evaluate a contemporary sports policy issue / or governance structure of a sport with a view to recommend an improved future alternative.
The second part of the assessment is a report worth 70% of the overall grade which will critically investigate sports policy and governance with a focus on social and economic factors.
Students will present a critical argument looking at the current content of sports policy and governance within the UK.
This will be compared with other countries planning which will allow students the vision to look at wider ethnic, racial, social, and cultural perspectives.
Previous placements have included Pompey (Portsmouth) in the Community, Northampton Saints RFU , Wiltshire FA, Birmingham FA, and Hertfordshire Lawn Tennis Association.
Students who complete the one-year professional practice placement will be awarded a BA (Hons) Sports Business Management (with Professional Practice).
Those who choose not to complete a placement will receive a BA (Hons) Sports Business Management, or equivalent exit award.
The International Year Abroad takes place between years two and three.
Successful completion of the International Year Abroad will be reflected in the award title - BA (Hons) Sports Business Management (International Study Year).
Students may be able to take part in optional study visits throughout the course to sports industry destinations.
Students can expect to pay between £15 and £40 for each visit, which may be used for food, drinks, and admission fees to events and venues.
Previous destinations have included London’s Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park and major UK football clubs.
Compulsory study visits that are linked to core modules will typically be free of charge.
Students can hear from guest speakers who will share their industry expertise and professional practice experience.
Previous speakers have included Lincoln City FC Marketing Manager, who explained the digital marketing and marketing strategies at Lincoln City FC; Commercial Director for Squash England, who discussed sponsorship of the sport; Legal and Governance Director from England Golf who outlined the role of governance within the sport and how changes have recently been made; Race Director for Hull Marathon, who detailed the organisation of an event; and RAF Personal Training Instructor, who applied his experience to business outside of the military.
Assessments will mostly be individual tasks, but students may also be expected to work in a group on an assessment task.
Students will receive feedback throughout the term to help them prepare for assessments.
This may be through formative assessment (such as ungraded presentations or mock questions), directed activities in seminars, or informal discussions with the seminar tutor.
Formative feedback may not be written down, and maybe directed to a group as well as to an individual.
Students will also receive feedback on graded assessments.
This usually includes comments detailing the quality of the work and how the student could improve their performance, as well as a highlighted criteria grid identifying performance against the assessed learning outcomes.
Examples of assessment methods that may be used include coursework, such as written assignments, reports, or dissertations; practical exams, such as presentations, visual poster presentations, demonstrations, and performances through live events or observations; and written exams, such as formal examinations or in-class tests.
The course has played a huge role in my career in the football industry.
I gained valuable knowledge and learnt from some very talented lecturers and tutors, which was crucial in helping me secure my job.
Jake Longworth
BA (Hons) Sports Business Management
Sports Business Management graduates have gone on to work in a variety of sectors and industries.
Some have gained employment at professional football clubs, national governing bodies, sports marketing agencies, and in the hospitality industry, business management, logistics, digital marketing, and advertising.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/sptjouub:
P503
This specialist, industry-accredited course offers students the opportunity to develop core journalistic skills in producing sports news, reports, and features content for print, online, or broadcast platforms in preparation for careers in the media, working within local, national, and international sport.
The course is accredited by the National Council for the Training of Journalists (NCTJ), and teaching is delivered by experienced industry professionals and academics.
The course explores what it takes to be a journalist in the sports industry, covering the core journalistic skills of newsgathering, writing, use of social media, media law, public affairs, ethics, interviewing, and match and event reporting.
Equipped with mobile technology and print production and design software, our newsrooms provide the perfect opportunity for you to hone these journalistic skills in a practical setting.
You can also produce broadcast content in digital radio and television studios.
The programme is continually revised to reflect advances in digital news and features production.
Course accredited by the NCTJ
Links with local sports clubs including Lincoln City Football Club
Get involved with student-run media platforms
A suite of newsrooms and specialist equipment
Through this course, students can examine sports journalism and the sports media, as well as exploring essential ethical and legal considerations.
Students may have the opportunity to contextualise their learning by producing sports reports, news, and features content across print, online, radio, and television platforms.
Taking a multiplatform approach from the outset, students are able to explore the fundamental principles of sports journalism practice and produce sports news and feature items on a regular basis.
This multiplatform approach enables students to focus on aspects of the sports industry that align with their specific interests and career aspirations.
An understanding of the commercial aspects of sports reporting forms an important part of the course.
Students can gain an insight into the financial and business elements of national and international sport, as well as the cultural and social implications of reporting sport in the contemporary world.
When they have progressed to their second year, students are able to take part in news days, replicating industry practice in a range of media.
There is also the choice to begin to follow a specialist broadcast, digital or magazine route.
In the final year of the degree students can produce sport-related individual projects, including a dissertation.
The school's journalism and sports industry links can help students secure work placements with media organisations.
Please note students are expected to cover their own transport, accommodation, and general living expenses while on placements.
This course is accredited by the industry recognised National Council for the Training of Journalists (NCTJ).
The University of Lincoln pays for students to take the NCTJ Diploma in addition to their course.
However, students are responsible for any exam retake fees.
Passing the NCTJ Diploma has no bearing on the outcome of the BA (Hons) Sports Journalism degree.
To many the Ancient Olympics in Greece are where the origins of organised sport began.
This module takes students through the development of organised sport in Victorian Britain, the development of sport media, including the work of Hazlitt and Egan, through to the Sky Sport revolution in football broadcasting, looking at the major historic moments in sports history along the way.
Students can learn about the relationship between sport and the media, the way in which we watch sport has developed and how sport has impacted everyday life.
Sport Writing and Reporting introduces students to the essential skills of writing and reporting for sports.
The work of a sports journalist is wide and varied, students could be reporting on the latest drug scandal in sport one day and covering a live sports event the next.
A good sports reporter will be able to write news, ask the important questions, write creative live reports and produce imaginative features.
This module aims to develop these skills and more.
Sport has impacted British society at every level for centuries, from the folk sport tradition in medieval Britain, through the Victorian health revolution and the mass spectator spectacle of the Olympic Games.
This module will look at how sport has affected our lives and how it has been shaped by social attitudes including racism, sexism and gender equality.
In the nineties the growth of the internet had a massive impact on the work of sports journalists as sports clubs, teams and associations began to create their own media outputs.
This growth has continued into the social media and mobile age with most professional football, rugby and cricket clubs creating their own content.
This has meant a new branch of work for sports journalists but has also meant that access to clubs for the media has become more restrictive.
This module explores the relationship between journalists and PR practitioners and outlines an alternative career for the sports journalist.
In addition to team sports the role of the sporting agency with respect to tennis, F1, athletics and the equine industry will also be addressed.
This module is designed to allow you to explore in greater depth the relationships between sport, the media, finance, public relations, marketing and business.
Incorporating expertise in the field from visiting lecturers and existing staff, the module will explore the role of marketing and PR in sports organisations and international sports events.
The module will also look at how sport combines with the world of finance and business in a world of multi-million pound transfers, foreign ownership and media franchising.
Kieron Curtis, BA (Hons) Sports Journalism
Kieron always wanted to work in the media department for sports teams and made the most of the University's connections with Lincoln City Football Club to get the skills needed to step into a career as a Communications Assistant for the football club.
One thing that sets the BA Sports Journalism course above the rest for me is the exceptional teaching.
Mostly comprised of industry professionals and experienced academics, the teaching staff support and guide you throughout every lesson and assessment, making each lecture engaging and relevant.
Ella Witcher
BA Sports Journalism
Work experience forms an integral part of the course, and students are encouraged to seek placements as soon as possible.
In the final year, there is a compulsory module in which students are expected to reflect on work placement experience.
A personal tutor is available to guide students on where to apply, and to help with putting together a CV.
Students are expected to cover their own transport, accommodation, and general living expenses while undertaking placements.
The school has established industry links which can help students to secure placements with media organisations, and there are opportunities with student media platforms too.
University of Lincoln journalism and sports journalism graduates have gone on to work at regional and national journalism and PR outlets, including the BBC & BBC Sport, ITV News & ITV Sport, the Daily Mail, Sky Sports News, The Times, Lincolnshire Live, Leicestershire Live, Essex Live, Proactive PR, Lincoln City FC, Manchester City FC, Arsenal FC, Radio Times, and The Sun.
The BA Sports Journalism course provided me with valuable skills I now use regularly in my career.
There were plenty of opportunities, through the course and extra-curricular activities, to put the skills I gained into practice, while building a portfolio and meeting industry contacts.
Finley Cannon
BA Sports Journalism graduate
Students are expected to cover their own transport, accommodation, and general living expenses while undertaking work experience.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/sesscsub:
C603
Strength and Conditioning in Sport brings together the application of sports and exercise science to maximise the physical preparation of athletes.
This degree offers students the opportunity to develop knowledge, understanding, and practical skills in applied strength and conditioning, physiology, biomechanics, and nutrition.
It aims to prepare students to provide strength and conditioning support to athletes, and work in the University's Strength and Conditioning Clinic.
A number of professional qualifications are integrated into the curriculum that students may choose to undertake alongside their degree at an additional cost.
These include Gym Instruction, Personal Training, and Exercise Referral.
IUSCA accredited programme
Undertake scientific sport research in specialist facilities
Subject ranked 3rd overall in the UK*
The course is designed to develop students' critical understanding of the knowledge and practical competencies required by strength and conditioning professionals.
Key concepts are presented over the three years, with deepening layers of complexity.
Applied assessments and work placements provide opportunities for students to experience real-life work scenarios, and are designed to develop the skills needed to succeed in a range of sports-related careers.
Modules can include Foundations in Strength and Conditioning; Fundamentals of Human Physiology; Applied Exercise Physiology; Nutrition for Health and Performance; Advanced Strength and Conditioning; and Advanced Biomechanical Analysis.
This programme is accredited by the International Universities Strength and Conditioning Association (IUSCA).
The IUSCA has been developed to support the growing area of strength and conditioning in the university sector across the world.
This module aims to provide an introduction to key concepts within strength and conditioning in order for students to develop a foundation of knowledge.
Context for the field of strength and conditioning will be addressed, introducing relevant professional bodies.
Course content aims to cover the role, scope of practice and code of conduct of the strength and conditioning coach.
Fundamental elements of athlete training will be introduced from both theoretical and practical perspectives.
This module aims to build and expand on prior knowledge of the foundations of strength and conditioning.
There is an increased emphasis on the application of theoretical knowledge and developing the student’s strength and conditioning coaching skills.
Outreach work is ingrained in the form of a placement, whereby students will spend a dedicated amount of time working in the local community with an athlete or group of athletes.
This can provide a key insight and experience of delivering athlete support in the applied setting.
Please note that students who undertake a work placement are responsible for their own travel, accommodation and meal costs.
This module aims to provide students with the opportunity to develop an advanced knowledge of concepts within strength and conditioning, promote critical evaluation of current research topics and training methods and further refine and develop coaching practice.
Students will have the opportunity to develop a comprehensive knowledge of the periodisation and planning of strength and conditioning training for athletes, and the opportunity to develop a critical understanding of advanced strength and conditioning training methods and current research trends.
This programme is endorsed by The Chartered Institute for the Management of Sport and Physical Activity (CIMSPA) for Strength & Conditioning Trainer, Gym Instructor, and Personal Trainer.
This course is also recognised by the National Strength and Conditioning Association (NSCA), the largest global body in strength and conditioning.
During your second year, you'll undertake a mandatory 10-week work placement providing strength and conditioning support to athletes.
You'll be encouraged to arrange a placement independently, and tutors can provide support where needed.
You will also be responsible for associated costs of placements, including accommodation, travel, and general living costs.
The staff invested a significant amount of time developing my coaching practice, providing an excellent platform in which to develop and use my practical skills in my current role as a full-time tennis coach.
Chris Stock
BSc (Hons) Sport Development and Coaching
This course has strong links with a number of external partners, including British Orienteering, British Canoeing, Active Lincolnshire, Lincoln City Football Club, and Lincolnshire Cricket.
Local partnerships with schools, community groups, and sports clubs provide additional opportunities for you to engage in relevant work experience.
Graduates can progress to a range of careers in areas such as sport development, coaching, and fitness instruction, and graduate-level employment in the uniformed services.
Some choose to go on to postgraduate study or teaching.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/tectheub:
W453
BA (Hons) Technical Theatre and Stage Management is designed to equip students with the knowledge and skills to pursue a career in the live arts, entertainment, and events industry.
The programme focuses on developing theatre professionals with a theoretical and vocational understanding of theatre industry roles and responsibilities, including academic knowledge and practical experience of the following subjects: stage management; stage lighting; live audio; design for the stage; health and safety; and the technical standards for places of entertainment.
The Technical Theatre and Stage Management programme takes a forward-facing approach to technical theatre, promotes exploration of new practices and technologies, teaches the fundamentals of the industry, and balances vocational training with academic study.
This degree has been designed to develop industry techniques and to nurture the next generation of highly competent industry professionals, with the opportunity to gain knowledge and experience working in a number of professional theatre settings.
Students have regular access to the Lincoln Arts Centre, a well-equipped, multi-functional venue with a professional theatre and multiple studio spaces.
The theatre presents a varied programme of live performance and events throughout the year.
Please see www.lincolnartscentre.co.uk for more information.
Learn from staff who are experienced in the industry
Collaborate creatively with students across the arts
Opportunities to undertake additional training and qualifications
Extracurricular activities to develop skills and experience
Access to industry-standard facilities at the on-campus public theatre
The course has three key strands to its delivery: practical/vocational study, design, and academic study.
Across these three areas you can study and learn in a variety of environments including practical workshops, rehearsals, seminars, and lectures.
Your learning will be rooted in established professional methods of Technical Theatre and Stage Management, while continuing to look towards technological changes that shape the future of a constantly evolving industry.
You are able to become part of a team that embraces forward-facing digital cultures and the development of new forms of theatrical experience.
By doing so, you can develop knowledge of industry trends and contemporary stagecraft techniques.
The building of a robust skillset across Technical Theatre and Stage Management is designed to best prepare you for a career in industry.
The course is designed to give you plenty of opportunities to develop core practical skills in Technical Theatre and Stage Management.
Throughout your time at University, you can spend time working with our professional staff and independently in a host of environments, including (but not limited to) stage spaces, workshops, rehearsal rooms, and our design/creative lab.
In addition to scheduled contact hours, you will be required to engage in independent study.
This could take the form of working on shows, working in rehearsals, working on design projects or wider academic and research tasks.
You can also broaden your horizons by taking modules  from other programmes within the Lincoln School of Creative Arts, should you wish to do so.
Optional modules are offered from the following BA Hons programmes: Creative Writing, Dance, Drama, and Theatre, Fine Art, Music, and Musical Theatre.
You may be able to undertake placements through modules in your second year or as part of a professional portfolio in the third year.
Previous placements have included the National Theatre, Nottingham Playhouse, Robe Lighting,  BBC: Strictly Come Dancing, and York Grand Opera House.
This module aims to introduce students to the subject of theatre production design, including set, lighting, sound and costume.
Students can study the design elements of a theatrical performance and the roles of the creative team.
Introduction to Stage Design aims to develop knowledge through theoretical study, lectures, and practical demonstrations.
The module explores many areas of specialism within the theatre and live entertainment industries and aims to give students a core understanding of potential career prospects.
Within this module, students will be expected to undertake an in-depth study of each individual role within the stage management team, deepening their understanding of the responsibilities of each role and the importance of communication and teamwork.
The module can deliver the key skills needed to work as a member of the stage management team, including practical skills, organisational skills, teamwork, leadership, working to a deadline and working under pressure.
This module aims to cover the skills required for working as a venue stage manager, company stage manager, deputy stage manager and assistant stage manager.
In this module students will be expected to gain an understanding of the stagecraft required to work within the technical theatre profession.
Students can be taught via a series of practical workshops over the first semester.
The workshops cover the essentials required of a theatre technician and form the foundation of the programme.
The module includes fundamental safety precautions and procedures required to work safely within the theatre industry.
This module aims to explore the many methods of set construction and types of stage sets, from scenic cloths to timber framed flats and steel constructions.
The module can study common practices and deliver practical sessions teaching the fundamental skills to create scenery, including but not limited to: reading set plans, cutting timber and steel, building flats, creating flown scenery safely, prop making, and scenic artistry.
This module will introduce students to the histories and contemporary practices of scenography, as well as design as it relates to theatre and performance.
Students will have the opportunity to navigate the subject historically, theoretically and practically, exploring multiple elements of design both atomically and holistically.
In this module students are expected to study the roles of both a venue stage manager and a production manager, comparing and analysing each role’s individual responsibilities in the management and execution of a production.
Students may also study the roles played by other stakeholders, such as the creative team, and their importance during the production process.
This final project can allow the student to utilise the skills they have learnt over the duration of the programme to fulfil a role specific to their area of interest.
This could include (but is not limited to) the role of stage manager, set designer, lighting designer, production manager, costume designer, technician, production manager or audio visual designer.
This module aims to reinforce pre-existing knowledge and deliver practical work-based experience of a specific professional practice.
Students may be required to act independently to secure a placement to work in a role of their choice or to support a professional within the chosen role.
For example, students may opt to specialise in the role of a theatre technician and take part in professional production get-ins and fit-ups, operate shows, create stage layouts for events, light performances, and mix live audio, receiving mentorship and guidance throughout the process.
Alternatively, students may wish to choose roles such as a stage manager, set designer, prop designer, lighting designer, production manager, or other appropriate role.
This module aims to contextualise the many forms of technical/stage work that takes place within the 21st century.
Over the course of the module students can be presented with a variety of contemporary stage management and technical theatre practices.
Teaching on this module also aims to equip students with the terminology required to work in theatre, roles within theatre, theatre layouts and legal obligations.
The course is approved by the Stage Management Association of the United Kingdom.
As this course aims to develop a wide range of practical and intellectual skills, assessment is varied and includes presentations, written projects, individual and group practical work, projects and portfolios, in addition to academic essays.
Students are assessed through their production of practical and written work throughout the degree.
Examples of assessment methods that are used include coursework, such as practical exams through performance observations; written assignments, reports or dissertations; and written exams, such as formal examinations or in-class tests.
The Technical Theatre and Stage Management programme offers additional training, such as courses in pyrotechnic operation, use of access equipment, and other industry-relevant training.
Additional courses and training opportunities are made available as extracurricular activities and may be subject to additional costs.
Where these are compulsory, the cost for the course, travel, accommodation, and meals may be covered by the University and so is included in the fee.
Where these are optional students will normally (unless stated otherwise) be required to pay their course, travel, accommodation, and meal costs.
You may also have opportunities to engage with the professional work of the Lincoln Arts Centre, such as undertaking production roles on the Lincoln Arts Centre's in-house Christmas show.
From designers and scenic artists to stage managers and technicians, there are plenty of opportunities to benefit from guest industry professionals who visit the University.
The course also aims to connect students to professional affiliated bodies, and regularly hosts industry conferences, symposiums, and trade shows.
Studying at Lincoln has helped me gain a wide range of professional contacts from across the country, these links have led to work opportunities in my specific area of interest.
Ellie Carney
BA (Hons) Technical Theatre and Stage Management
The course aims to prepare you for a spectrum of potential careers, including production design, stage management, programming for the stage, live audio engineering, venue management, lighting design for live events, and production management.
Students from the programme have gone on to work in the following areas/professions: v enue technical management, f reelance stage management (both ‘in house’ and on national/international tours),l ighting specialists for internationally acclaimed stage lighting manufacturers, t heatre safety specialists, and i n-house venue technician.
One of our graduates, Ellie Carney, has worked as a freelance stage manager throughout her first few years after graduation and is currently working as the Deputy Stage Manager on Bill Kenwright Limited Productions' national tour of Blood Brothers.
The interview day consists of a short interview and a ‘taster’ workshop.
For each course, students may find that there are additional costs.
These may be with regard to the specific clothing, materials or equipment required, depending on their subject area.
Some courses provide opportunities for students to undertake fieldwork or field trips.
Where these are compulsory, the cost for the travel, accommodation and meals may be covered by the University and so is included in the fee.
Where these are optional students will normally (unless stated otherwise) be required to pay their own transportation, accommodation and meal costs.
Students must purchase their own PPE required for workshop sessions.
With regards to textbooks, the University provides students who enrol with a comprehensive reading list and our extensive library holds either material or virtual versions of the core texts that students are required to read.
However, students may prefer to purchase some of these for themselves and will, therefore, be responsible for this cost.
Where there may be exceptions to this general rule, information will be displayed in a section titled Other Costs below.
Other Costs For students who wish to participate in The Lincoln Company's Edinburgh Festival Fringe performances, there are additional costs.
The University covers accommodation costs in Edinburgh.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/zoozooub:
C300
The study of zoology is an exploration of how animals have evolved, how they function, and the ways in which they interact with their environment.
The course integrates anatomy, physiology, behaviour, ecology, evolution, and conservation to provide a comprehensive understanding of species structure and diversity.
Humans have created a rapidly-changing world to which animals have had to adapt.
Understanding the amazing diversity of animals that share our planet helps us to understand our origins, as well as predict future evolution.
Zoology at Lincoln is taught by research-active staff who specialise in a wide range of disciplines.
The degree aims to provide a broad understanding of the subject, encompassing the study of key aspects of modern zoology in a diverse range of invertebrates and vertebrates.
Students have opportunities to study animals in their natural habitat at key points during their studies.
Students can participate in a residential field trip in the UK, enabling them to study animals in the wild.
For UK-based field trips the University will cover costs of transport, accommodation, and meals at the field site.
There is also an optional Overseas Field Course module in the final year.
*Guardian University Guide 2025 (out of 26 ranking institutions)
This degree is designed to develop a broad understanding of the subject, encompassing the study of key aspects of modern zoology in a diverse range of vertebrates and invertebrates.
Throughout the course, students have the chance to develop skills in scientific methods and communication.
There is also an opportunity for students to gain professional experience by undertaking a placement year, between the second and third year of their studies.
In the first year, students will have the opportunity to develop a broad understanding of biological concepts, including genetics, evolution, ecology, anatomy, and physiology.
During the second year, more specialist modules cover vertebrate and invertebrate zoology, reproduction and development, and plant-animal interactions.
There is an emphasis on independent research in the final year and students will be expected to undertake a substantial research project, as well as modules that aim to develop critical scientific skills.
Teaching is a mixture of lectures, seminars, and practical sessions in the laboratory or in field situations.
Other forms of teaching will include discussions and debates and written tasks.
These will vary from module to module.
I have had the chance to experience things that most people never will.
The staff are very passionate about their work and about passing on their knowledge.
Charlotte Winspear
MBio Zoology graduate
Career opportunities for Zoology graduates may include teaching, environmental consultancy, conservation, and science journalism.
Graduates may choose to continue their studies at postgraduate level or pursue a career in research.
Ibrahim Sawal graduated in 2018 with a BSc (Hons) in Zoology.
He stayed on in Lincoln to study an MA in Journalism (Science and Environment), and he was able to secure an internship at New Scientist.
Now a member of the New Scientist journalist team, Ibrahim regularly contributes articles to the printed magazine and online.
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent to include 40 points from Biology.
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points including 40 points from 15 credits in Biology.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall to include a Higher Level 5 in Biology
This must be achieved from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent Level 3 qualifications, to include 40 points from Biology.
A Level: BCC to BBC to include a Grade B in Biology
BTEC Extended Diploma in Animal Management / Applied Science accepted depending on modules: DMM
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 104 to 112 UCAS points to be achieved from 45 Level 3 credits, including 40 points from 15 credits in Biology.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall to include a Higher Level in Biology.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/zoozooum:
C301
The subject integrates anatomy, physiology, behaviour, ecology, evolution, and conservation to provide a comprehensive understanding of species structure and diversity.
The MBio Zoology degree at Lincoln is an exploration of how animals have evolved, how they function, and the ways in which they interact with their environment.
For UK based field trips the University will cover costs of transport, accommodation and meals at the field site.
There is also an optional Overseas Field Course module in the third year.
The MBio programme includes an additional research-intensive year, with modules to develop key transferable skills relevant to further research and employment opportunities.
This degree aims to provide a broad understanding of the subject, encompassing the study of key aspects of modern zoology in a diverse range of invertebrates and vertebrates.
As students study, they will have the chance to develop skills in scientific methods and communication.
In the first year, students have the opportunity to develop a broad understanding of biological concepts, including genetics, evolution, ecology, anatomy, and physiology.
There is an emphasis on independent research in the third year and students will be expected to undertake a substantial research project, as well as modules that aim to develop critical scientific skills.
Final year modules focus on developing research skills further with workshops in research techniques.
Students will also be expected to undertake a Master's level research project.
Graduates may choose to continue their studies at doctoral level and pursue a career in research.
112 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications to include 40 points from Biology.
Access to Higher Education Diploma:  45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 112 UCAS Tariff points including 40 points from 15 credits in Biology.
International Baccalaureate: 29 points overall to include a Higher Level 5 in Biology.
________________________ If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
A Level: BCC to BBB to include a Grade B in Biology
BTEC Extended Diploma in Animal management / Applied Science accepted depending on modules: DDM
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 104 to 120 UCAS points to be achieved from 45 Level 3 credits, including 40 points from 15 credits in Biology.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/clearing/clearingguide:
We can't wait to welcome all of our new students this September.
To help you secure your place through Clearing, follow our step-by-step guide.
Clearing is now open and you can view which of our courses have spaces through Clearing on UCAS and on our website.
Take note of important information such as entry requirements and course content.
In Clearing, we can often make offers to students who don't fully meet our published entry requirements – just call us to check.
If you have your results, you don't need to wait until A Level Results Day to apply to us in Clearing - you can apply now.
During Clearing, contact us to find out if we can make you an offer, and you can often get a decision straight away.
Have your UCAS account, Clearing number, Personal ID, course name, and grades to hand.
Once you've received an offer from us, simply add us as a choice on UCAS.
Remember, spaces at Clearing are given on a first-come, first-served basis.
Visiting us in person is the best way to find out what the University of Lincoln is really like.
You can do this at our Open House events in August or join us at our summer Open Days in July.
You don't need a confirmed place to apply for student finance.
If you are intending to apply to us then simply put us down as your preferred university choice.
Your funding can help cover expenses such as accommodation, tuition fees, and living costs.
Our range of modern residences place you in the heart of the city, and only a short walk from your lectures and the high street.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/getreadyforlincoln/pre-arrivalchecklist:
The wait is nearly over and we can't wait to welcome our new students to Lincoln!
As we get closer to the start of term, we want to make sure that you have all the important information you need, covering the essential and recommended tasks to complete before you arrive.
Confirming your personal details and place on your course is the first step in officially joining the University and becoming a student.
All students need to enrol at the start of each year of study, and you can find out how, with our step-by-step guide.
Before you arrive in Lincoln you will need to have secured your accommodation, worked out what you will be bringing with you, and booked an arrivals slot.
The University of Lincoln manages six halls of residence all within walking distance to our Brayford Pool Campus.
As a new undergraduate student, you are guaranteed a room offer if you apply before 31 of August 2024.
Discover our award-winning accommodation through 360 tours and book your room once you have made the University of Lincoln your firm or insurance choice on UCAS.
You can do this directly via the Accommodation portal .
Knowing what to bring with you and what to leave behind can be hard, especially if you have limited space.
If you are living in University-managed accommodation, check out our Packing for University Guide for what to pack and what is included.
Once your accommodation choice has been confirmed and you have completed the online accommodation induction, you can book an arrivals slot and see the details of your room.
You will receive confirmation details by email, but if you have any questions, our Accommodation Team will be happy to help.
If your tuition fees are not paid by a sponsor or by Student Finance, you will need to pay them directly.
Find out how to pay for your tuition fees and accommodation fees by using our helpful guide.
Ahead of starting your course, download the UniLincoln app, your essential companion to university life.
You can use it to check your timetable, record your attendance, and explore all that the University of Lincoln has to offer.
Your first week of university is called Welcome Week and, for most new students, starts on Monday 22 September 2025.
Find out what induction events are scheduled by going to our Welcome Week website and finding your programme's timetable (you can also find this link in the ‘UniLincoln’ app).
Lincoln Students’ Union puts your student experience at the heart of everything they do.
Through a variety of services, events, and campaigns, they are here to make your time at university the best it can be.
They represent you, and your student leaders are here to support you.
Additionally, they are the home of Lincoln’s sports teams and societies, and they organise the Official Lincoln Freshers Week.
You can see what events the Students’ Union will be hosting by visiting the Freshers Week website .
Blackboard is your go-to place for learning at university and is known as a Virtual Learning Environment (VLE).
This is where you will find all your programme materials, reading lists, and much more.
Before your course starts, you will have access to introductory materials, course requirements, and any pre-sessional work assigned to you – you will need to have completed your registration and enrolment tasks in order to access Blackboard.
Before purchasing a laptop or any specific software, please check for any programme requirements and make use of our IT Requirements and Software availability help guide.
All students will have access to the Microsoft 365 suite, and some programmes have access to specific software as part of their course.
At university, you will use email as one of the main ways of contacting your tutors and receiving updates about what’s happening on campus.
You will have access to your student email account on (Microsoft Outlook) once you have completed your registration and enrolment tasks.
We strongly recommend keeping on top of your emails as soon as you have access, so you don’t miss any important notifications.
All students are required to complete the Respect, Awareness, Inclusion, Safety and Empowerment (RAISE) training – this will take approximately 30 minutes.
Students should complete this as soon as they can, as this is a mandated requirement of the Office for Students (the regulator for the higher education sector in England) and non-completion of the training may be subject to disciplinary action under the University Regulations.
All students are required to complete an online health and safety induction, designed to ensure you are familiar with key safety procedures and your responsibilities in helping us maintain a secure campus environment.
You may be required to complete further, more specialist health and safety inductions depending on the course that you are studying.
In addition to the essential tasks above, we’d love to hear about your journey to Lincoln so far.
This survey is your chance to tell us what’s mattered to you, what’s helped (or not) and how we can make starting uni even better for new students like you.
It only takes a few minutes, and your voice really makes a difference.
Start Survey
Get ready for university study with access to an online academic study module designed to help prepare you for starting your studies at Lincoln.
You'll have access to preparation hints and tips, strategies for studying and what to expect from university, video stories and reflections from students who have made the move, and downloadable checklists and planning tools.
Keep an eye on your emails for detail of how to access this ahead of your arrival at Lincoln.
Students in the UK can register for the on-campus doctors before they arrive in Lincoln.
If you are able to we strongly recommend you do this as soon as possible.
The health centre is located at the heart of campus.
Unibuddy Community provides a safe, official space for you to meet and get to know other new students before you arrive at Lincoln.
Through Unibuddy Community, you can meet other offer holders studying your course, discuss shared interests and hobbies, learn more about Lincoln, and find others living in or near your chosen accommodation.
Being away from home can be daunting at first, but Lincoln will soon feel like home.
You can get a headstart by getting to know our Brayford Pool Campus and the surrounding city, by watching our student-led campus tour and city tour .
You can also access a range of helpful campus maps on our website.
To make sure you get the support you need, we suggest looking into each service and how they can help you.
To make sure you can get the support you need, we suggest looking into each service and how they can help you before you arrive.
Alongside extensive student support for career planning and skills development, the team offer advice on all aspects of the recruitment process – from part time work to graduate roles, they are here to help.
The Students’ Union Advice Centre has a team of trained Advisors who can provide you with impartial and confidential advice, support and representation, independent of the University.
We also provide cost of living support to students who may be experiencing difficulties.
The two libraries on campus provide flexible study and learning spaces, along with a wide range of subject-specific books, resources and study skill guides, laptop loans and printing facilities.
Through our Multi-Faith Chaplaincy service, we offer pastoral care, a confidential listening ear and spiritual support to anyone in our University community, no matter whether you consider yourself religious or not.
We provide you with opportunities to settle-in, meet new people and have a great experience throughout the year with our planned programme of events, excursions and activities.
The Estates Support Desk handles estates requests from students and staff.
We aim to resolve all requests in a timely manner and in line with our published service levels.
This covers both Estates and Campus Services related works.
The University Wellbeing team are there to support all students, but we would strongly suggest getting in contact with us if you require extra support.
We would suggest getting in contact with us before you start university if you experience any of the following: a specific learning difficulty, a mental health difficulty, a physical disability, a long-term medical condition.
We can advise you on what support is available and set up a Personalised Academic Study Support (PASS) plan if required.
To help keep your university accounts secure, we have introduced multi-factor authentication, which adds an extra layer of security when logging in.
Downloading the Microsoft Authenticator app is the fastest and most secure way to access your university accounts.
As well as the tasks all new students must complete, international students will also need to complete additional tasks before they arrive in the UK.
Most international students will require a visa to study in the UK.
If you require support with the application process, please use the CAS and Visa support pages.
Our pre-departure and arrivals guide provides information to help you prepare for your journey to the UK and to campus, alongside advice and tips on settling in during your first few weeks as a student.
If you have completed all the tasks relevant to you, congratulations!
You are as ready to start your studies at the University of Lincoln.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/getreadyforlincoln/post-arrivalchecklist:
Once you've arrived in Lincoln, there's just a few more important tasks to complete.
This page runs through the essential and recommended tasks that you'll be able to complete once you're on campus.
Your Student ID card is an essential part of university life.
You will need it to access buildings or take books out from the library.
Student card collection will be on campus during Welcome Week and you must be fully enrolled before you can collect your card.
For more information on where and when to collect your Student ID card can be found on our card collection page.
The Students' Union app is the easiest way to access all the services and events offered by your Students' Union.
To attend Freshers Week events, including our sports and society fayres, you will need to download this app.
We recommend downloading it as soon as possible to stay updated and access everything in advance.
If you are unable to register before you arrive in Lincoln, you can always do this during your first few weeks in Lincoln.
You can do this online or by visiting the on-campus surgery located next to the Wellbeing Centre.
If you’ve not done this yet, download the UniLincoln app as soon as you can, it will be your essential companion to university life.
You can use it to check your timetable, record attendance, and explore all that the University of Lincoln has to offer.
Students living in University-managed accommodation are invited to attend a welcome talk on the evening of their arrival, where our Accommodation Services Team will share helpful information such as what to do if you get locked out and how to access laundry.
Event details will be shared along with your arrival information.
For any other questions or concerns, the Residence Life and Accommodation Teams are here to help.
One of the first things you will want to do when moving into your new home is set up WiFi.
You can find out more about how to do this in our guide on how to access the student halls network .
Become an active part of the #wearelincoln community by joining a sports team or society.
This is a great way to meet new people, develop new skills, and make the most of your university experience.
Whether you're into football, drama, gaming, or photography, there's usually something for everyone.
Engaging in these extracurricular activities can enhance your overall student experience.
For many new students, finding a job is a top priority, which is why our Careers and Employability Team will be hosting events, such as a part-time jobs fayre during Welcome Week.
You will be able to find out about the job opportunities the University offers and what other jobs are available to students locally.
You may want to set up a LinkedIn account ahead of your arrival, but the team can help you with this if you need it.
The Student Support Centre can provide a variety of confirmation of study letters for you, often called a ‘Certificate of Study ’.
These letters confirm you are studying at the University of Lincoln and include the name of your course and your start and end dates.
They can be used to prove you are a student if you want to open a student bank account.
It’s never too late to join UniBuddy and start meeting new people.
When you join you can be added to chats with course-mates, flat-mates, or chats based on your interests.
Make sure you are registered to vote at your new address.
Please see the details at the bottom of our Enrolment page regarding your right to vote.
As well as the tasks all new students must complete, most international students will also need to complete additional tasks once they arrive in the UK.
All international students are required to book an appointment to complete the final step of their enrolment.
You will be sent email instructions on how to do this.
If you have any questions for the Enrolment team, please email enrolment@lincoln.ac.uk .
To open a UK bank account, you will need to request a Student Status letter through OneUni after you are fully enrolled.
For more information on how to do this visit the Student Services international support pages.
Please use our International Student Hub to access learning support, scheduled events, and guidance as you continue your journey at the University of Lincoln.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/opendaysandvisits/undergraduateopendays/offers:
As a special thank you for visiting, we’ve lined up a variety of exclusive offers and discounts just for our Open Day guests.
From savings on food and drink to special deals on experiences and entertainment, there’s something for everyone.
Our deals aren't just available on campus - head into the city after the Open Day to enjoy what Lincoln has to offer!
The University of Lincoln has partnered with the City of Lincoln Council to help support students and their families in travelling by car to one of our Open Days.
Guests attending Saturday and Sunday events can take advantage of our free parking on-campus, however, parking spaces on campus are limited and spaces do fill up quickly as these events are very popular.
To support our guests in finding suitable parking, we are able to offer a discounted parking tariff valued at £6.40 and valid for 24 hours from the time of purchase.
There are plenty of pay-and-display car parks nearby including discounted parking at Lucy Tower Street (LN1 1XL) and Tentercroft Street (LN5 7DB).
To obtain this discount, you can enter the PayByPhone code: 801323.
To register for PayByPhone, guests can download the app within their smartphones or visit www.paybyphone.co.uk for more detail.
If you have any questions regarding the offers and discounts on this page, please contact us on 01522 886644 or email enquiries@lincoln.ac.uk .
Please see our terms and conditions at the bottom of the page.
If you are looking for a quick bite to eat, you can get a 20% discount on food and drink at all University-managed on-campus venues.
Our outlets can be found in buildings across campus serving coffee, pastries, paninis, and more.
In addition to our University-managed on-campus venues offering a 10% discount on food and drink, just short walk away you’ll find a range of restaurants, cafes, and bars that overlook the beautiful Brayford Pool Marina.
In the centre of Lincoln, you’ll be spoilt for choice with the eclectic mix of pubs and entertainment venues that are available.
Guests can benefit from the following discounts when showing their Open Day Guide, which is available on arrival at the Open Day.
20% off food
10% off
25% off food
25% off in store
20% off
10% off (code OPENDAY10)
20% off hot drinks and cake
See the sights of the city with 50% discounted bus tours at our July 4 and 5 Open Days.
Hop on and hop off at any one of eight stops around the city.
Find out more on the Lincoln BIG website .
Why not take the opportunity to visit the Cathedral during your time with us?
We're able to offer discounted entry for just £5 to guests attending selected University of Lincoln events.
Our Open Day guests can benefit from 10% off stays at the DoubleTree by Hilton, Lincoln, when attending a University of Lincoln Open Day.
This can be booked by emailing the Hilton reservations team at res.lincoln@hilton.com and quoting ‘Lincoln University'.
Alternatively, you can book online at https://www.hilton.com/en/hotels/huylndi-doubletree-lincoln/ , adding special rates, and adding corporate code 113105707.
You can also use the Hilton Honors app by entering the code 113105707 under special rates.
Car parking discount:
Please note, this discounted parking tariff is only valid and redeemable as part of a University of Lincoln Undergraduate Open Day, which are standalone events and separate to our Open Campus events, Informal Visit Days, Postgraduate Open Days, or any other event.
Cathedral discount:

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/abouttheuniversity/governance:
The links below explain how the University is run, the management structures, key people, policies and procedures.
The University’s charitable status is also explained, and there is a guide for businesses wishing to provide services to the University (procurement).

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/abouttheuniversity/governance/universitypolicies/universitypoliciesa-z:
To see our policies linked into categories please visit the University Policies page.
Below is an A-Z of our policies and next to each policy is a shortened link.
We encourage you to use the link shortener so that you are also using the most up to date version of the policy.
Asset Management Policy
Asset Management Process BYOD
Asset Management Process Client Devices
Disciplinary
Guide to eligibility
Use this gov.uk tool to find out what type of Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check you can get for your employee: https://www.gov.uk/find-out-dbs-check
Drone Appendix
Export Control Form
Manager Guidance for Delegation and Reports in MyView
MyView Recording Sickness Absence
Return to Work Form
Manual Handling guidance
Guide to Supporting Individuals with Menopause
Participant Payment Request Form
Application for Parental Leave
PEEP Referral Form
Policy Framework
Flexible Working into Retirement Application Form
Individual Stress Risk Assessment Checklist
Manager Guide - Stress Risk Assessment
Sustainable Travel Policy
Sustainability more information
https://lncn.ac/sustrvpol
https://lncn.ac/Sustainable

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/abouttheuniversity/accessibility/disproportionateburdenassessments:
This is a list of the disproportionate burden assessments for digital accessibility conducted for the University of Lincoln.
This means we are not currently able to create fully accessible versions of these features.
The individual assessments will set out our reasons.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/equalityofopportunity/wowsummerschool:
The Wellbeing Orientation Welcome or WOW Summer School is our award-winning transitional summer school for students with a diagnosis or a condition that may make the transition from further education to university more challenging.
This free event takes place across three days and two nights on our Brayford Pool Campus, and it is your opportunity to start to feel at home, get to know us, and learn more about the University and what support is on offer.
Applications are now open for our next WOW Summer School, taking place from 23-25 July 2025.
To be eligible, you must have a conditional, contextual, or unconditional offer from the University of Lincoln; made us your firm choice, plan to join us from September 2025, and meet one or more of the categories listed on UCAS as a student with individual needs.
If you have any questions you can get in touch with us by emailing studentwellbeing@lincoln.ac.uk
This event is about you getting to know us, and you'll be given a timetable of activities that can include icebreaker sessions, academic experiences, and tours of the Brayford Pool Campus.
You'll also have plenty of time to socialise with other attendees and make friends before you join us in September.
Listen to what least years students have had to say about their experiences of WOW Summer School.
The Summer School isn't just about getting to know us, it's also about getting a taste of student life.
The event is semi-self catered, with breakfast provided each day, making it a great opportunity to experience what it's like to live away from home.
Whether you want to cook your own food or make use of one of the great restaurants and takeaways just minutes away, you'll have plenty of choices.
You'll be given your own room in our modern Cygnet Wharf accommodation to stay in.
Each room has key card access, an en-suite bathroom with a shower, and access to a fully-equipped shared kitchen and communal space.
Based close to the heart of campus, you'll be a short walk away from sessions and the city centre.
You'll have plenty of free time across the event to explore your new city.
Whether it's shopping, green spaces, food, or entertainment, we have it all.
Take a look at our Discover Lincoln page for some inspiration on what to do when you're here.
University can be a big transition for many students, and that's why we have developed our award-winning support offering.
From health or disability advice to mental wellbeing, we have trained teams you can access throughout your time at Lincoln.
We were also one of the first universities to join tot he Student Minds University Mental Health Charter programme, and received the Mental Health Charter Award for 2024 .
You can find out more about the support on offer at Lincoln by visiting our Support At Lincoln webpage.
We're dedicated to promoting equality of opportunity across the University, and the Summer School is just one example of ways we help students who may need extra support during their time with us.
Learn more on our Equality of Opportunity webpage.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/abouttheuniversity/governance/universitypolicies/heatandschoolsprivacynotice:
The University of Lincoln is committed to protecting your personal data in accordance with data protection legislation, including the UK General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR) and the Data Protection Act 2018.
This Privacy Notice explains how we collect, use, and share your personal data when you participate in outreach and widening participation activities recorded in the Higher Education Access Tracker (HEAT).
​ What Information We Collect About You
We collect information about you ​ to evaluate and monitor outreach and widening participation activities.
This may include : ​
As the data collected is for tracking purposes, it captures a snapshot of the individual's information at the time of their interaction with the University.
This data is not intended for ongoing communication, so it remains relevant only as a snapshot of the person at that specific time.
If an individual's details, such as their postcode, change and they interact with the University again in the future, their information will be updated when that new interaction is uploaded to HEAT.
However, since the data is not stored for ongoing interactions, it is not necessary for individuals to update their information continuously.
However, if you do have concerns that we hold inaccurate information, please contact compliance@lincoln.ac.uk.
How We Use Your Information
We collect information directly from you when you sign up for an event or programme, from your school or college if they share data with us as part of our outreach partnerships, when you participate in workshops, mentoring, or other activities organised by the University of Lincoln, and from national education datasets such as the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA) and UCAS.
We use this data to ​ assess the effectiveness of outreach and widening participation initiatives, and track educational journeys and progression into higher education.
We use this data to meet regulatory and reporting obligations for funding bodies, such as the Office for Students (OfS).
It also allows us to support research into the impact of outreach and access initiatives.
Additionally, this data allows us to monitor equality of opportunity in higher education.
​
Where this occurs further information will be available in a cookies policy.
The cookies policy for the University website can be found on our Privacy and Website Use Terms and Conditions webpage .
We Process Personal Data Under the Following Lawful Bases:
Information We May Share with Other Organisations
​ ​ We may share personal data with the following organisations for research and reporting purposes: ​
​ ​ HEAT Service and its partner institutions ​ : ​ ​ We share personal data such as demographic details, educational background, and outreach participation data to monitor long-term educational progression.
This supports sector-wide research on access to higher education.
There is no legal obligation to share data with HEAT, but participation enables better-targeted outreach initiatives.
You may object to this sharing, but doing so may limit our ability to assess the effectiveness of our programmes.
​ ​ The Office for Students (OfS) and other regulatory bodies : ​ ​ We are legally required to share aggregated and anonymised data with OfS to demonstrate compliance with regulatory requirements for widening participation.
Individual-level data is only shared when necessary for policy research.
You cannot object to this sharing due to legal obligations.
​ ​ The Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA ) : HESA receives student progression and demographic data to track national trends in higher education.
This sharing is legally mandated for sector-wide statistical analysis.
You cannot opt out of this data sharing due to statutory obligations.
​ ​ ​ UCAS and other education providers ​: ​ ​ We may share limited data (e.g., progression outcomes) with UCAS and universities to track application success rates and evaluate outreach effectiveness.
This is done under legitimate interest grounds.
You can object to this, but it may impact our ability to support your application process.
​ ​ Research organisations evaluating outreach and widening participation ​: ​ ​ Approved research bodies may receive anonymised or pseudonymised data to assess the impact of outreach initiatives.
No identifiable personal data is shared without consent.
You can withdraw consent at any time without consequences.
These include suppliers of software services.
Information processed abroad
​ ​ In most cases, your data is processed within the UK and the European Economic Area (EEA).
However, if we transfer your data outside of the EEA, we will ensure that appropriate safeguards are in place to protect your personal data.
These safeguards may include:
How long we keep your information
​ ​ Your data will be retained in accordance with HEAT retention policies, which enable us to track long-term educational outcomes.
We will securely delete or anonymise your data when it is no longer required for the purposes outlined in this notice.
Accessing your information and other rights
Access : You have the right to request a copy of any personal information we hold about you.
Portability : If you have provided information on the basis of your consent or for a contract then you can request a digital copy so you can send it to another organisation.
Correction : If any of the information we hold about you is incorrect or incomplete then please let us know.
Erasure : This is also known as the right to be forgotten.
Restriction : You can request that the use of your personal information is limited to storage only and that we use it for no other purpose.
The Information Compliance team can be contacted by email on compliance@lincoln.ac.uk or by post at: Information Compliance, Legal and Compliance Services, Lawress Hall, Riseholme Park , Lincoln , LN2 2LG.
How to Object or Withdraw Consent
If you object to our use of your personal information, then we must stop unless we can demonstrate compelling legitimate grounds for continuing.
Please contact ​ compliance@lincoln.ac.uk ​ and explain your objection.
If you have provided your consent for the use of your personal information, then you can withdraw this consent at any time.
​ Please contact us on the email addresses provided if you wish to withdraw consent.
How to Contact Us
For general enquiries please call 01522 88 2000 or write to University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool, Lincoln, LN6 7TS.
You can find contact details for individual teams and staff by visiting our online staff list .
If you have a query about your personal information rights then please contact the Information Compliance team by email on compliance@lincoln.ac.uk or by post at Information Compliance, Legal and Compliance Services, Lawress Hall, Riseholme Park, Lincoln, LN2 2LG.
How to Complain
If you feel that we have let you down in relation to your information rights then please contact the Information Compliance team by email on compliance@lincoln.ac.uk or by post at Information Compliance, Legal and Compliance Services, Lawress Hall, Riseholme Park, Lincoln, LN2 2LG
Further Information
For more information on how HEAT and HESA process your personal information, please find the links to their Privacy Policies below.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studyatlincoln/undergraduate-whatyouneedtoknow:
To help you choose the course that’s right for you, we aim to bring to your attention all the important information you may need.
The modules listed on our website course pages may include current modules and modules that are intended to run and are subject to change.
In addition to the core modules all students on the course must study, there may be a range of optional modules which enable you to tailor your degree to your interests.
The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and may be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved.
We want to ensure that the programmes we offer are relevant and reflect changes in subject areas and developments in industry.
To do this, we may introduce new courses or update existing ones.
The process of approving the new or updated content is known as ‘validation’ or ‘revalidation’.
You may see 'subject to Validation' or 'subject to revalidation' on some course pages on our website.
Please see the individual course pages to find out the current validation status of a course.
During your studies you may be taught by a range of academics, including lecturers, demonstrators, technicians, senior lecturers, professors, practitioners, and visiting experts.
You may also be supported in your learning by other students.
Contact hours vary by course and can take many forms, including lectures, seminars, and workshops.
This is an important aspect of university-level education.
As a general rule, you will be expected to spend two to three hours working independently for every hour in class.
This is in addition to independent study at the library and group activities utilising the University's wide range of teaching spaces for collaboration and group work.
The way in which you will be assessed will depend on your chosen course.
The University of Lincoln’s policy is to ensure that staff return assessments to students promptly.
Depending on your course, there may be additional costs for purchasing specific clothing, materials, or equipment, undertaking fieldwork or field trips, or gaining experience through work placements.
Where trips are part of an assessed core module, the cost of travel and accommodation is usually included in your fee and will be covered by the University.
Where these are optional, you will normally be required to pay your own transport, accommodation, and general living costs.
This also applies to placements in the UK or overseas, and studying abroad.
With regards to textbooks, the University provides students who enrol with a comprehensive reading list and you will find that our extensive library holds either physical or virtual versions of core texts that you may be required to read.
However, you may prefer to purchase some of these for yourself and you will be responsible for this cost.
Students who choose the option of studying abroad during their course may be able to take advantage of the Turing Scheme – a UK government programme which provides an opportunity for eligible students to apply for funding to participate in study abroad placements.
More information can be found on the Government website .
Programmes are delivered primarily from our Brayford Pool Campus in central Lincoln, with the exception of our food manufacturing courses which are delivered at Holbeach in south Lincolnshire.
Some students may also have access to facilities on our Riseholme Campus, a rural site located just a few miles north of Lincoln.
Transport will be provided where this is an essential part of the course.
For more details, visit www.lincoln.ac.uk/maps .
If you have an questions about your course or studying at Lincoln, please contact our Enquiries team.
Enquiries
T: +44 (0)1522 886644
E: enquiries@lincoln.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/undergraduatestudy/howtoapply/personalstatementtips:
Your personal statement is a short piece of writing, just 4,000 characters or 47 lines of text, where you tell universities who you are, why you want to study your chosen subject, and why they should choose you.
All of your university choices get the same statement from you as part of your application, so it is important that you get it right.
It may be the first time you have written something like this, and it is normal to feel a little unsure.
To help you out, we have collected some of our best tips and advice so you can write personal statement to be proud of.
Please note, this page is for students applying to start in 2025.
If you are preparing to apply for study in 2026, make sure you are familiar with the changes being made to personal statements by taking a look at UCAS's Personal Statements for 2026 webpage .
A great personal statement shows universities who you are and tells your story.
Avoid using generic phrases, such as: ‘I have always been interested in studying this subject.’ This does not tell us anything about you or why you are submitting an application.
Instead, try giving personal examples of how you became interested in the subject and why you want to study it at university.
Also, your personal statement needs to be in your words.
UCAS uses specialist software to see if a personal statement has been copied from somewhere else, so do not be tempted to use AI or copy.
You may be tempted to use long, complex words to show your understanding of a subject, but it is often better to use simple language where possible.
This makes it easier for the reader understand why you want to study in the first place.
If you are using subject-specific terminology, then make sure you have a reason for doing so.
While it is important to not overcomplicate your writing, this is still a formal application, and you should avoid using any slang or contractions, such as: ‘isn’t’ or ‘don’t’.
It can feel awkward to write about yourself and your achievements, but that’s exactly what we want to read about!
If you are struggling, try listing your skills and achievements before you start writing, you probably have more than you think.
If you are struggling to write about your achievements, try the ABC method:
A - Activities: describe something that you have done, such as extra reading, work experience, or volunteering.
B - Benefits: explain some of the benefits you have gained from the activity.
C - Courses: link these benefits to you future course or career.
If you are not sure if you should include a particular skill or achievement, then think about if you can relate it to studying your subject or university.
If you are not able to without it feeling forced, then don’t include it.
It may take a few drafts to create something that you are happy to submit, and that is fine.
Sometimes it can be helpful to get everything written down in rough first draft and then refine it from there.
Remember, you do not need to write it all at once, you could try writing small sections at a time and coming back with fresh eyes.
Remember to proofread your application before submitting it to help you avoid spelling and grammar mistakes.
Ask friends, teachers, parents, carers, or anyone else you trust to have a look through, as the more readthroughs you can do the better.
It may also help to put it through text-to-speech software and listen to it back so you can hear if something is not right.
We are also here to help.
Email us your personal statement and the Education Liaison Team will take a look through and give you feedback.
Once you have submitted your application, take a look at our Applicants and Offer Holders webpage.
This page is filled with information about the exciting next steps you can take on your journey to studying with us.
Explore Applicants' Portal
Check out our Personal Statement Live Lounge for even more top-tips from our expert Education Liaison Team.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/howtopay/tuitionfeestatus:
It’s important to understand your fee status to ensure you are paying the right tuition fees when joining the University of Lincoln.
You should consider your fee status and the overall cost associated with a University degree before submitting an application to study with us.
This web page will help you assess this, remember your fees are determined by your nationality and the country you usually live in.
To qualify for Home student status, the main eligibility criteria are to either have:
This list is not exhaustive.
A detailed schedule of the categories into which students can be classed as Home or Overseas status can be found on the UK Council for International Student Affairs website .
Please note that as a result of the UK’s departure from the European Union some rules relating to tuition fee status are subject to change.
We will provide further information about this as soon as possible but please check the UK Council for International Student Affairs website for regular updates.
An initial decision on your student fee status will be made based on information you provide as part of your application.
If we are unable to determine your fee status from this information, you will be asked to complete a fee status questionnaire and provide additional information.
If you do not meet the criteria for Home fees, or you do not provide sufficient evidence to be classed as a Home student, you will be classed as an Overseas student for tuition fee purposes.
If you feel a mistake has been made in assessing your fee status, you can appeal our decision by replying to our confirmation email.
When appealing, you should provide:
Please note that we will not be able to consider an appeal if additional evidence is not provided.
Gaining Indefinite Leave to Remain (ILR) part-way through a course will not, on its own, change your fee status.
Similarly, acquiring three years' ordinary residence after starting your course will not change your fee status.
In certain circumstances, it may be possible to change your fee status.
For example, at the start of your second or third year if you were to be granted refugee status and, as a result, meet requirements for Home fees.
For further information, please see ‘Becoming home after the course has started’ on the UK Council for International Student Affairs website .
The information you provide when completing the fee status questionnaire will be used by the University solely to determine whether you are classified as a "Home" or "Overseas" fee paying student and will be processed in accordance with the University of Lincoln’s Data Protection policy .

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/howtopay:
Our How to Pay pages have been designed to provide all of the essential information you need to know about paying your tuition fees.
You can find a wealth of information including guidance on payment methods, payment schedules, and sponsorship.
We've also provided an extensive set of FAQs to help you find the answer to any queries you may have.
If you are unsure on your Home or International fee status, you can find out more on our Tuition Fee Status Webpage.
Find out more about student loans for home students.
Home students
Our International students page has additional information about the payment process for students not from the UK.
Paying tuition fees
Convera
We proudly partner with Convera to offer you a simple, secure, and smart way to pay your fees online.
Convera's platform is trusted by 800+ institutions worldwide to enable payments in 140+ currencies across 200+ countries and territories.
Pay Your Fees with Convera
Why Choose Convera
Tuition Fee Payment Terms
All students will automatically be set up with a payment plan from September 2025 with up to nine consecutive monthly instalments, depending on their fee amount.
The first instalment will be due 21 days after enrolment .
Students will receive a notification email shortly after enrolment with the payment schedule and will need to make their payments online each month.
There will be no need to register any card information for this.
Students will receive an email reminder five days before the instalment is due to allow time to make a payment.
Should students fail to make their payments on time will have sanctions placed on their accounts.
If you need assistance, you can contact a member of our team in the following ways:
Important Information
Failure to make payments on time, or to adhere to your agreed instalment plan, will result in sanctions being applied to your student account.
This may include:
Fees must either be paid in full, or you must pay your instalments online each month
If you have made a payment online through Convera, please retain the payment confirmation e-mail from Convera as proof of payment.
You do not need to contact us to confirm receipt of funds.
If you would like to pay your outstanding library fines, log onto your Blakboard site and click the “Library” tab, or call the Library on +44 (0) 1522 886222 .
Accommodation Payment and Invoicing Information
At the start of your tenancy, your accommodation invoice will be emailed to you.
This invoice will include a direct link for making payment or for submitting any queries regarding making payments through the Finance Direct Messaging Service.
You will receive:
Please note that the instalment amounts are based on your selected accommodation.
When a payment is due, you will receive a reminder email.
This will include a link for you to make your payment.
If you are unable to make the payment or have a query at that time, you can click the “Further Assistance” button in the same email to access our online messaging service for support.
For all accommodation billing questions including questions about being released/ extending your contract , please contact accommodation@lincoln.ac.uk .
If you are unsure about your tuition fees, please refer to your offer letter or contact studentrecords@lincoln.ac.uk .
You can also find out more information on our Tuition Fee Status webpage.
For tuition fee questions, please contact studentrecords@lincoln.ac.uk .
You can check your balance and view any payments you have made through the OneUni app under the 'My Finances' section.
Alternatively, refer to your offer letter for your total fee amount, then subtract any payments you have already made to calculate your remaining balance.
If you are an undergraduate student, your tuition fee loan will be paid direct to the University.
Please provide a copy of your entitlement letter from Student Finance England to studentrecords@lincoln.ac.uk and they will amend your billing.
Please email studentrecords@lincoln.ac.uk and advise them of your question.
The Student Administration Team will be in contact with you.
Please visit our student services website for details of the support services the University offers, including financial support and money management: https://studentservices.lincoln.ac.uk/ .
If a Student Finance company are paying your fees, please be aware that Student Finance does not automatically continue from one year to the next.
Even if you’ve had Student Finance in previous years you will need to reapply for each year.
Our Student Funding Team (based in the Student Support Centre) can help with any issues regarding your funding.
Find out more at https://studentservices.lincoln.ac.uk/life-at-university/money-management-financial-support/student-finance-and-funding/ .
Information on payments for our commercial and sponsor customers can be found on our dedicated commercial customers page.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/postgraduatestudy/feesandfunding/postgraduateloans:
If you choose a Master's-level postgraduate programme, you can apply for a loan of up to £12,471*.
This is paid into your bank account in instalments during the academic year.
You may use the loan according to your individual circumstances as a contribution towards the cost of your course's tuition fees and any other costs associated with study, including living costs.
You will still need to pay your tuition fees to the University directly.
Loans are administered through the Student Loans Company (SLC) and paid in three instalments across the academic year during your period of study.
The first payment is released to you once the University has confirmed your enrolment and attendance.
The loan payments will stop if you change to a course which is not eligible in the loans scheme or withdraw from study.
Your course must:
Those who wish to study by distance learning can also apply.
For full eligibility criteria, please visit https://www.gov.uk/masters-loan/eligibility .
These terms are subject to change in line with Goverment policy.
For further information, please visit the gov.uk website .
*Dependant on year of entry.
For the latest Goverment information about Master's Loans, please visit https://www.gov.uk/masters-loan .
For those considering pursing a research programme, the UK Government offers doctoral loans of up to £29,390* for students enrolling onto full-time PhDs and equivalent postgraduate research programmes.
This is designed to help with course fees and living costs while you study.
You can apply for a Postgraduate Doctoral Loan in any year of your course, however if you apply after your first year, you might not get the maximum amount.
If you are eligible, you will receive the first payment after your course start date, once the University confirms that you’ve registered.
The loan will be paid in three instalments each year.
Whether you qualify depends on:
You will not be able to get a Postgraduate Doctoral Loan if:
Full eligibility criteria can be found on the Government website at https://www.gov.uk/doctoral-loan/eligibility .
Doctoral Loan repayments currently begin when your income is over £403 a week, £1,750 a month, or £21,000 a year (before tax and other deductions).
For the latest information on repayment terms, please visit the Government website at https://www.gov.uk/repaying-your-student-loan/what-you-pay/ .
University of Lincoln alumni may be eligible for an Alumni Scholarship which can reduce fees by up to 15 per cent for UK students.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/sagrifdm:
At Lincoln, our staff and students are engaged in impactful research and teaching designed to make a difference across the food chain, with a clear focus on improving productivity, safety, quality, efficiency, and sustainability through innovation.
The Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology's multi-disciplinary team brings together sector-leading expertise in a diverse range of areas.
Explore the Institute
The National Centre for Food Manufacturing is dedicated to helping food industry employees advance their careers while helping the sector innovate.
Explore the Centre
Subject Hub
The world’s population is expected to grow to almost 10 billion by 2050, increasing global
agricultural demand and putting pressure on farmers and manufacturers to find innovative technologies and practices to stay ahead in this critically important sector.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/agrfdtms:
September 2025 and January 2026
The globally important agri-food sector is intrinsically linked to challenges around land and water use, climate change, sustainability, health, and wellbeing.
This industry-guided programme aims to equip students with the advanced skills, knowledge, and expertise needed to undertake technical and production management roles within this growing industry.
Students at Lincoln have the opportunity to study a variety of forward thinking topics such as principles of crop science, advanced food manufacturing, new product and process development, food safety and technical management, agri-robotics, as well as supply chain management.
Following the taught element of the programme, the course offers students a choice between a research project in industry or academia, where they will have the opportunity to make contacts and apply their knowledge in a real-life setting.
During the programme, students have the chance to visit agri-food industries to see the practical applications of their knowledge and hear from a number of guest speakers.
Informed and guided by industry
Accredited by the Institute of Food Science and Technology (IFST)
Undertake a research project in industry or academia
Visit agri-food industries and hear from guest speakers
A holistic, all encompassing, farm-to-fork approach
Agriculture and Forestry at Lincoln is ranked in the top 250 overall*
*QS World University Rankings 2025 (out of 477 ranking institutions)
Enrolling in the Agri-food Technology with Professional Practice course was a transformative experience.
I learned so much about modern agricultural science with hands-on industry practice which has equipped me with the skills and knowledge needed to excel in the agrifood sector.
The course honed my research, and presentation skills, it also provided opportunities to attend conferences and networking events, which were incredibly valuable.
Mabel Adaeze Nwanojuo
MSc Agri-Food Technology Student
This MSc is intentionally wide-ranging and is designed to prepare students for opportunities across the broad and fast-moving agri-food sector.
The programme takes a holistic, all encompassing, farm-to-fork approach, acknowledging the need to optimise performance and quality in the agriculture and food supply chain.
Following the taught element of the programme, students will undertake a Research Project, where they will have the opportunity to make contacts and apply their knowledge in a real-life setting.
Weekly contact hours on this programme may vary depending on the individual modules and the stage of study.
Postgraduate level study involves a significant proportion of independent study, exploring the material covered in lectures and seminars.
As a general guide, for every hour spent in class, students are expected to spend at least two to three hours in independent study.
This module typically covers the key fundamentals in advanced manufacturing within the food industry demanding strong operation skills coupled with an in-depth knowledge of food process unit operations, food preservation, food packaging systems, hygienic food machine design, food factory design, and food process engineering.
Students are expected to gain understanding of the basis of advanced food manufacturing unit operations and their applications in the food industry incorporating how traditional processes are still prevalent with new designs and automation.
The students may also gain an understanding of new and novel food production operations.
Agriculture and the food chain become more and more data-driven.
Digitisation is the use of new and advanced technologies, integrated into one system, to enable farmers, wholesalers, food manufactures, and other stakeholders within the agri-food value chain.
Digitalisation simulated by precision agriculture can be a key factor to solving problems in agriculture with regards to the environment, the working conditions, food security, and other public interests.
This module typically covers the key quality assurance and technical roles within the food industry with management skills coupled with knowledge of product safety, quality, and legality with a demonstration of attention to detail alongside good communication and interpersonal skills.
Students are expected to consider how to define the 'technical standards' of a food manufacturing business, including a review of legislative requirements, necessary accreditation standards, customer expectations, and incorporation of a manufacturer’s own business requirements.
Food industry enforcement bodies/government agencies and the business technical function interaction with such authorities will be considered, as will the role of product recall and crisis management systems during challenging circumstances.
This module examine global agri-food supply chain systems.
Today's businesses operate in a global environment that requires agri-food enterprises to consider rest of the world in their competitive strategy analysis, despite of their market base or location.
Businesses cannot isolate themselves or disregard external factors such as food safety, trends, competitive positions, or technology advancements in other countries.
This change in trends, technologies, food safety, trade, and modernisation of transport infrastructures raised the importance of supply chain management to new levels.
Agile management of supply chains is necessary to succeed in volatile demand situations experienced in many markets.
This module introduces students to the subject of agri-food engineering and, in particular, to the role of modern automation in developing sophisticated and efficient engineering systems to meet the ever increasing demand of the sector.
After a brief introduction on industrial robotics and automation, a range of applications will be presented to investigate, analyse, and propose the use of robotics to automate pre-harvesting and post-harvesting operations in the agri-food sector.
This might include the innovative Industry 4.0 model as an overall holistic framework to evaluate the impact of the proposed applications on the ‘Farm of the Future’.
The module content typically covers the aspects of food innovation, product and process development and investigates the impact of new technologies for the formulation of healthy nutritional foods.
The student considers critique and appraise the way in which food manufacturers develop new products to reflect customer, consumer and other market driver demands.
The module considers the new food product development areas linked to health, nutrition, sensory science and emerging technologies.
The module typically provides a review of current crop science and its contribution to large scale food production.
This might include new technologies and their part in the future of sustainable crop production.
The module considers key components of crop science as individual units through to interacting complexes.
Throughout the module, the importance of the microbial interrelationship with plants is considered, covering both pathogens and beneficials.
Students will be expected to independently evaluate the topics critically and develop skills leading to responsive and flexible use of crop science in the production of crops in a wide range of agronomic situations.
This module covers the fundamental skills and background knowledge that students need to undertake a research project, including: surveying literature; selecting and justifying a research topic; planning of research; academic writing, data collection, handling and analysis; and presentation and reporting of research.
Students undertake a research project from a broad spectrum of agri-food options, to address a scientific question.
A wide range of industry and academic expertise exist across our Riseholme, Holbeach, and Brayford campuses, and students may be provided with an opportunity to develop the project guided by the members of staff.
The module provides an opportunity to carry out research to expand students' knowledge and develop skills in an area in which students' have a particular interest.
It also offers an opportunity to develop a student’s skills in academic writing and presentation.
Further, it provides an experience of leading/managing a project in collaboration with key stakeholders.
Students can hypothesise, implement, analyse, interpret, and write up a substantial piece of empirical work, developing research skills, such as methodological and analytical awareness and critical insight, in leading their own research through discussion of topics and publications.
This course is accredited by the Institute of Food Science and Technology (IFST).
IFST is the UK’s leading professional body for food science and technology.
A variety of assessment methods are used during this course, including essays, examinations, oral presentations, and practicals.
These assessments are designed to develop the skills that will be needed for a career in the sector.
As well as studying at the University’s Brayford Campus, students will also visit our Riseholme campus, situated just 5km north of Lincoln on a beautiful parkland campus and The National Centre for Food Manufacturing, located in Holbeach Lincolnshire.
Students may also have the chance to visit agri-food companies, helping them to understand the practical applications of their knowledge, and hear from a series of guest speakers on sustainability in the food industry and agri-robotics.
Situated just 5km north of Lincoln in a beautiful semi-rural setting, the University's Riseholme Park Campus is home to the Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology, offering short courses in agriculture and agronomy alongside postgraduate and research programmes.
It has specialist agri-tech research facilities and a friendly academic and research community.
The campus spans more than 200 hectares, incorporating woodlands, parkland, watercourses, and grasslands.
It features a working farm and a variety of heritage features, centred around the historic Grade II listed Riseholme Hall.
The University's National Centre for Food Manufacturing (NCFM) is based in Holbeach, in south Lincolnshire.
This food manufacturing technology hub provides specialist facilities and industry-standard equipment, including analytical laboratories with a test kitchen and sensory testing suite, a technician training centre and processing facilities.
It supports industry innovation, productivity and growth within the sector working closely with industry partners.
The University of Lincoln has launched the world's first Centre for Doctoral Training in Agri-Food Robotics in collaboration with the University of Cambridge and the University of East Anglia.
This new advanced training centre in agri-food robotics is creating the largest ever cohort of Robotics and Autonomous Systems (RAS) specialists for the global food and farming sectors, thanks to a multi-million pound funding award the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC).
Postgraduate Application Support
Applying for a postgraduate programme at Lincoln is easy.
Find out more about the application process and what you'll need to complete on our How to Apply page.
Here, you'll also be able to find out more about the entry requirements we accept and how to contact us for dedicated support during the process.
All applicants meeting the initial academic requirements for this course are required to undertake an interview with academic staff before a decision concerning the offer of a place can be made.
It is expected that applicants will be able to demonstrate a keen interest in agriculture and all aspects of the farm-to-fork process.
In order to make this process available to all applicants, we utilise Skype as the preferred medium for those applicants who are not able to travel to Lincoln prior to the start of the programme.
First or second class honours degree or equivalent overseas qualification.
We will consider applicants from non-related degrees, with relevant experience.
To help support students from outside of the UK, we offer a number of international scholarships which range from £1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees.
Postgraduate Funding Options
Find out more about the optional available to support your postgraduate study, from Master's Loans to scholarship opportunities.
This programme is designed to prepare students for a career in one of the world’s largest industries, agri-food.
Agriculture companies, food manufacturers, producers, and retailers are large employers, as are government departments that develop food policy.
Graduates may pursue careers in technical roles, marketing, distribution, plant supervision, and product development.
They may also choose to form their own company, with the help of the University’s award-winning business support centre, Sparkhouse.
Some may choose to pursue research and PhD pathways (particularly in the field of agri-robotics).

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/agftppms:
14 months
Students on the MSc Agri-food Technology with Professional Practice programme will have the opportunity to undertake an industry collaborative research project.
Undertake an extended industry collaborative research project
Following the taught element of the programme, students will conduct an industry collaborative research project.
This module forms a significant element of the MSc Agri-food Technology (with Professional Practice) programme.
It requires students to apply and contextualise their professional interests, research experience and skills development gained from attending taught modules in a live or near-live research project.
Through the submission of a final dissertation and presentation of their research, students will demonstrate their ability to design and deliver a project that addresses an industry challenge as well as professional skills development.
Students following the Professional Practice pathway are expected to submit a portfolio which requires them to reflect on their research in a professional context, on how their skills have developed through the course of their study and identify opportunities for further skills development to prepare students for a career in the Agri-food sector.
Where students engage in a place-based practical activity, they are expected to pay for their own travel, accommodation, and general living expenses while undertaking the project.
The option to undertake the Professional Practice route will be subject to students’ performance during the taught element of the programme and agreement from their tutor.
Students will be expected to identify and secure their own project; however, support is available to students who may require it during this process.
Through successfully completing the research project and portfolio, it is expected that students will have demonstrated a greater element of work readiness in preparation for their future career.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/fdssusms:
Brayford Pool and Holbeach
The MSc in Food Manufacturing programme explores the latest food trends across the supply chain with a focus on both UK and international markets.
The core modules cover key developments in food manufacturing, emphasising the role of effective management in fostering innovation and sustainability.
Students can gain in-depth knowledge of food security, processing technologies, and have a chance to specialise in a range of fresh produce sectors.
This programme aims to support students in advancing their career in the food and drink industry through engaging in modules that study contemporary topics such as smart food processing, future food innovation, and leading sustainable businesses on a national and international scale.
Developed in collaboration with industry practitioners
Access to specialist industry-standard facilities
Undertake an independent research project
Hear from expert industry speakers
Develop and expand expert knowledge and practical skills
Gain a specialism in seafood, meat and dairy, or cereals and fresh produce
The programme takes a holistic, wide-ranging approach to food manufacturing and sustainability, acknowledging the need to optimise performance and quality in the food supply chain, to prepare students for opportunities across the internationally broad and fast-moving sector.
Following the taught element of the programme, students can undertake a research project to apply their knowledge in a real-life setting.
The programme is primarily delivered at our Lincoln Brayford Campus with some travel required to the National Centre for Food Manufacturing (NCFM) in Holbeach, which is based approximately 50 miles south of Lincoln.
Transport is provided between the two campuses for timetabled programme delivery.
Weekly contact hours on this programme vary depending on the structure of individual modules and the stage of study.
Postgraduate level study involves a significant proportion of independent work, exploring the material covered in practicals, lectures, and seminars.
Visits to exhibitions and events, masterclasses delivered by industry professionals, and visits to industry sites are just some examples of opportunities that may be available to students throughout the course.
We're updating our curriculum ahead of September 2025 to make sure that it is up to date and responding to industry needs, however themes may include topics such as:
It provides specialist facilities and industry-standard equipment, including analytical laboratories with a test kitchen and sensory testing suite, a technician training centre, and processing facilities.
It supports industry innovation, productivity, and growth within the sector, working closely with industry partners.
A variety of assessment methods are used during this course including essays, in-class tests, case studies, scientific reports, poster and oral presentations, and practicals.
This programme is designed to prepare students for a career in one of the world’s largest manufacturing industries.
Food manufacturers, producers, and retailers are large employers, as are government departments that develop food policy.
Graduates may pursue careers in operations, processing, marketing, distribution, and plant supervision, as well as technical, process, and product development.
Some may choose to pursue research and PhD pathways.
Typically, applicants are required to have, as a minimum, a lower second (2:2) class honours degree or equivalent overseas qualification.
Students' undergraduate backgrounds may be in a wide range of subjects including, but not limited to, food science and technology, biology, agri-food, supply chain management, food operations, and sustainability.
If you are unsure if your background is suitable, please get in touch with the Programme Leader.
We will consider applicants from non-related degrees with relevant experience.
Vocational and professional qualifications will also be considered.
Applicants on this route will benefit from having a minimum of 2 years' food/drink industry experience and having been employed in a managerial or supervisory role in food manufacturing or a related industry.
GCSE Maths and English at grade C or above are required.
Equivalents, including Functional Skills Level 2 or IELTS, are accepted.
If an applicant holds qualifications in a non-related subject area, then an interview may be conducted to assess their suitability for the course before the offer of a place can be made.
It is expected that applicants will demonstrate a keen interest in food manufacturing and sustainability.
To make this process accessible to all applicants, interviews will be held over Microsoft Teams in most cases.
For more information about this course, please contact the Programme Leader.
Dr James Wagstaffe jwagstaffe@lincoln.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/intvisms:
The MSc Artificial Intelligence is designed to equip students with the advanced knowledge and skills needed to develop the innovative solutions required by the emerging global AI Vision industry in healthcare, brain sciences, medical imaging, robotics, manufacturing, retail, agriculture, space, energy, and nuclear.
Course content is informed by research carried out in the School of Computer Science, especially in brain-inspired AI, deep learning, machine learning, data analytics, computer vision, and neurobotics.
This approach aims to ensure content is both leading-edge and underpinned by the latest thinking in the field.
The programme provides students the chance to enhance and apply existing knowledge of computer programming and mathematical frameworks through laboratory workshops, lectures, debates, and independent research.
The course assumes a familiarity with programming concepts and the supporting mathematical framework, while presenting advanced concepts relating specifically to the computing domain.
Students also have the opportunity to undertake a substantial research project focusing on an area of personal and professional interest, through the development of a dissertation and substantive software implementation.
A focus on advanced knowledge and skills to develop the innovative solutions
Informed by the research of academic teams at Lincoln
Taught by academics with specialist experience in relevant areas
Complete an independent research project in a specialist area
Students on this programme can experience a blend of different teaching and learning approaches.
The programme aims to enable the development of skills through practical workshops in the laboratory, and academic knowledge through debate, lectures, discussion, and personal research.
Modules assume a familiarity with programming concepts and the supporting mathematical framework, while presenting advanced concepts relating specifically to the computing domain.
Each module typically consists of 12 weeks of study.
This time includes a supporting lecture programme, a series of supported laboratory sessions, and time for the completion of assignment exercises and examinations.
Weekly contact hours on this programme may vary depending on the individual module options chosen and the stage of study.
The programme is also supported by online access to lecture material and related information.
Students must complete a substantial research project focusing on an area of personal and professional interest, for example through a substantive software implementation and the development of a dissertation.
Our expert academics are delivering bitesize lectures on a range of topics, introducing you to some of the concepts and ideas you could explore during your Master's degree.
This module aims to cover the theoretical fundamentals and practical application of machine learning algorithms, including supervised, unsupervised, reinforcement and evolutionary learning.
Practical programming exercises complement and apply the theoretical knowledge acquired to real-world problems such as data mining.
This module will explore current methodologies in the field of signal and image processing, covering a range of aspects in capturing, processing, analysing and interpreting n-dimensional content.
The aim is to offer students with a deep understanding and to allow an exposure to the latest developments in signal and image processing, equipping them with knowledge in practical depth.
The module will also provide training in programming skills (e.g.
Matlab), tools and methods that are necessary for the implementation of such systems.
The module will also cover applications of signal and image processing in various fields, allowing the students the chance to establish a full awareness of technology advances in this rapidly evolving field.
This module explores current methodologies in the field of big data analytics and modelling, covering a range of aspects in collecting, transforming, processing, analysing and make inferences out of large amounts of data, which can either be signals or visual data.
The aim is to offer students a deeper understanding and to allow an exposure to the latest developments in big data analytics, equipping them with knowledge in practical depth.
python), tools and methods (e.g.
Apache Spark, Spark Machine/Deep Learning, distributed analytics, etc.) that are necessary for the implementation of big data analytics systems.
The module will also cover applications of big data analytics in various fields, such as Cybersecurity, Internet of Things, and Computer Vision, allowing students the chance to establish a full awareness to the technology advance in this rapidly evolving field.
This module introduces cutting-edge topics in machine learning and computer vision research areas, including both theory and practical applications.
The module will follow a research seminar format, involving input from colleagues across the School of Computer Science and other Schools at Lincoln.
Additionally, guest lectures from industry representatives and leading international researchers will be offered.
Students will further benefit from opportunities to discuss potential research topics that they can explore to build and enhance their research and critical thinking skills.
The module introduces the fundamentals of neural computing, an emergent specialised area of computer science that is concerned to describe how the brain “computes” by simplifying neuronal biology to a set of equations.
Emphasis will be given on mathematical descriptions and computational techniques used to study and understand neurons and network of neurons.
Specific topics will cover synaptic transmission and plasticity, learning and memory and vision processing including applications in object recognition and scene understanding.
Students can develop an understanding of core neural computing concepts and models, the current vision technology landscape, and topical application scenarios using a number of computational tools.
This module is designed to cover the fundamental skills and background knowledge that students need to undertake research related to the title of the award being studied, including: surveying literature; selecting and justifying a research topic; planning of research; selection of appropriate research methods; evaluation of research; presentation and reporting of research; and legal, social, ethical and professional considerations.
This module presents students with the opportunity to carry out a significant inquiry-driven research project, focusing on a topical area of interest that is aligned with their programme of study.
This is primarily realised through the development of a dissertation and substantive research and/or software implementation output.
The research project is an individual piece of work, which enables students to apply and integrate elements of study from a range of modules, centred on a specific research question.
The student will undertake work that is relevant to the ongoing research in either one of the established research centres within the School of Computer Science or through the development of a project concept in consultation with their allocated academic supervisor.
A brilliant and well-structured programme that encompasses all necessary modules for someone looking to enter the industry as an engineer or researcher.
With state-of-the-art facilities and devoted lecturers, you will be encouraged to pursue excellence.
Diogo Ribeiro
Graduate and Data Scientist at YouLend
The programme may be assessed through a variety of means, including in-class tests, coursework, projects, and examinations.
The final stage research project provides further opportunity to specialise and to complete an extended piece of work.
Our students are primarily based in the University’s Isaac Newton Building.
Technical resources include computer laboratories with high-performance workstations equipped with full software development platforms.
There is a range of equipment for loan, including Raspberry Pi devices, robots, and virtual reality equipment such as HTC Vive and Oculus Quest.
Students in Artificial Intelligence are taught by academics with specialist experience in areas including brain-inspired AI, medical imaging, computer vision, machine learning, neurobotics, data analytics, and parallel computing.
The School of Computer Science's highly active research centres are focused on world-leading developments in computer vision, robotics and autonomous systems, and agri-food technologies, with strong links to many industrial collaborators and other universities around the world.
We aim to incorporate as much of our research as possible into our taught curriculum and we provide students with opportunities to get involved in our exciting cutting-edge research activity.
Throughout the course, I gained better insights into the data analysis segment and improved my analytical thinking.
I am happy I went through this programme as it helped me expand my skill set and secure a job as a Data Quality Analyst for an analytics software company.
Kosta Yankov
Below you can find examples of previous student project work.
These projects may give you a feel for the areas of study you might wish to pursue during your final project on the programme.
Shashank Boite — 3D Reconstruction Of Strawberries In Complex Outdoor Environments To Assist Evaluation And Picking Tasks
Nathan Little — An Attempt to Identify Humpback Whales from Flukes Using Similarity Comparison Neural Networks
Joshua McKone — A Machine Learning Based Classification System for Brain Signals
Miguel Moreno-Rodriguez — Segmentation Of Esophageal Abnormalities In Endoscopic Images With Mask R-CN
An informal interview by Skype with the Programme Leader may also be required to make sure candidates have the right background for the course.
This informal contact may also include requests for samples of self-directed project work involving a significant element of software and/or systems development.
There are two requirements and you will need to provide evidence of both of them in your application:
- A first or upper second class honours degree in computer science or a related discipline.
This could include engineering, mathematics, physics, or other numerate science and technology subjects.
- Competence in computer programming.
Acceptable forms of evidence of this skill to include in your application include, but are not limited to: (a) academic degree transcript showing 2:1 level scores in one or more programming classes; (b) a copy of a university, employment, or hobby project report detailing programming work; (c) a link to a source code site such as gitlab or github containing samples of your code; (d) a certificate of completion of an online programming course and exam such as https://www.udemy.com/course/the-complete-python-developer-certification-course/ or https://www.udemy.com/course/learn-basics-of-c/ .
If you have a good numerate degree but no programming experience then you may be able to satisfy the requirements by self-studying programming and passing a programming test online, such as through the above links.
This may take a few weeks or months of part-time study depending on your previous knowledge.
It is quite common for students to apply in this way.
If your application does not include sufficient evidence of both of the above, you may be asked to provide samples of self-directed project work or to have an informal conversation to clarify them.
This programme aims to provide students with skills spanning two key disciplines of modern computing and its applications, namely imaging and data science, and their combined use.
Such skills are in high demand not only in academia and industries dealing with imaging technologies and related challenges, but also in many other areas where analytical and multidisciplinary mindsets and skills are critical.
Some students may choose to continue towards doctoral level, including within the School of Computer Science.
Heriberto Cuayahuitl Portilla HCuayahuitl@lincoln.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/appcmpms:
1 Year
The MSc Applied Computer Science programme is designed as a conversion programme for those who have little or no previous academic computing experience.
It aims to provide you with the opportunity to develop a range of computing knowledge and skills to pursue in-demand career opportunities.
The programme has been designed for those seeking to enhance their current role or transfer to a technical computing career in industry.
Opportunities to gain industry certifications
No previous computer science experience required
Modules which prepare you with real-world skills
Chances to undertake exiting software development projects
Through a blend of core and additional modules, the programme explores the broad concepts of Computer Science to enhance familiarity with computing systems, covering topics such as cloud and networking, as well as cyber security and web service development.
The additional modules help you to build industry-transferable skills that can be applied to a range of computing roles.
For example, the Software Project module is an opportunity for you to engage in a software  project on a topic of your choosing.
It provides a CV enhancing opportunity to demonstrate the deep knowledge and skills acquired throughout the programme module topics and to evidence a significant portfolio piece.
Course content is primarily delivered through interactive lectures and workshops, and each module typically consists of 12 weeks of study, which includes a supporting lecture programme, a series of supported workshop sessions, and time for the completion of assignments.
The Software Project module is carried out over the summer period with the support of an academic supervisor.
Emphasis is placed on enabling you to  build practical skills in designing and developing software applications using the latest technologies.
Postgraduate level study involves a significant proportion of independent study, exploring the material covered in lectures and workshops.
As a general guide, for every hour spent in class, you are expected to spend at least two hours in independent study.
This module provides students with the opportunity to learn cutting-edge cloud computing and and AI topics such as serverless computing and generative AI in the context of cloud, on-premise, and on-device resources.
The latest cloud models are discussed and their application for scientific industry, and consumer-based applications.
The ethical, legal and security implications of adopting cloud computing and AI services are also discussed.
This module introduces cutting-edge topics in computer science research areas, including both theory and practical applications.
The module  follows a research seminar format, involving input from colleagues across the University.
Additionally, guest lectures from industry representatives and leading international researchers may be offered.
Students can further benefit from opportunities to discuss potential research topics that they can explore to build and enhance their research and critical thinking skills.
This course draws on the human-centred interactive (HCI) discipline for designing  user experiences (UX) with interactive technologies.
Students can learn how to gather user requirements, conceptually design solutions , prototype those solutions, and conduct valid user evaluations.
The professional, ethical, social and legal issues in designing interactive technology will be considered throughout the module.
This module provides insights into the management of company and personal data with an emphasis on security.
Impact on organisations and individuals resulting from attacks is explored.
The application of security elements including but not limited to, passwords, certificates, firewalls, and intrusion detection systems are considered.
The scope for security is explored, taking into account the implementation of theoretical models and considering identity access management.
This module aims to provide students with an understanding of advanced concepts of software engineering principles and practices.
The course focus on developing the skills necessary to design and deploy sophisticated modern software systems in a range of application areas.
You will develop your practical software engineering skills and learn new theories of software development.
This module is focused on the production of a significant software deliverable based on an appropriate computing area and specification.
Students may have the opportunity to demonstrate their ability to work independently on a significant, in-depth project requiring the coherent and critical application of Computer Science theory and skills.
This can involve the creation of a suitable project proposal to frame the work with appropriately scoped aims and objectives, as well as feasible means for fulfilling those aims and objectives.
Students then work independently to fulfil those project goals through the development of a significant software artefact.
Carrying out software development work to an agreed specification (agreed between student and supervisor) is a requirement for the module.
Self-management and self-evaluation are key expectations of this process.
This module explores contemporary approaches for the design and development of data-driven web services.
Students will be given the opportunity to design and develop 'server-side' web services using RESTful architectures to create an Application Programming Interface (API).
RESTful implementations make use of web standards such as HTTP, URI, JSON, and XML to build data-driven API services that utilise a database.
Database design and development will also be covered.
Students will demonstrate industry-transferable skills by developing RESTful web service endpoints that are connected to a suitable data source for the consumption and publishing of data.
You may have the opportunity to gain Microsoft and Cisco certifications, at no cost, in areas such as security, AI, cloud, and data fundamentals.
Examples of the certification exams and digital badges you can achieve as part of the programme, include Microsoft Azure Data Fundamentals and Microsoft Azure AI Fundamentals.
During the programme, you may have the chance to participate in large software development projects.
These typically align with the specialist research areas within the school meaning you can benefit from the range of staff expertise at Lincoln.
Some examples of research projects include:
The programme is assessed through a variety of means, including in-class tests, coursework, presentation, and posters.
The majority of assessments are coursework based, reflecting the practical and applied nature of computer science.
The software development project module enables students to further specialise in a specific computing area if they wish.
Applicants should hold a minimum 2.2 classification for an Honours degree in any subject from a UK University (or equivalent for international applicants).
In addition, applicants should hold a minimum Grade 4 (C) for GCSE Maths, or equivalent.
If you have studied outside of the UK, or are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages for information on equivalent qualifications.
We take the employability of our graduates seriously, and that's why you will be able to benefit from advice from our dedicated Careers and Employability Team throughout your studies.
Upon completion of the programme, graduates are well positioned to fill computing roles in industry such as Security Analysts, Software Developers, UX Specialists, and Web Developers.
Dr Derek Foster defoster@lincoln.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/clocomms:
Our MSc Cloud Computing programme aims to provide students with an extensive learning experience that equips them with the cutting-edge skillsets required within the fast-growing cloud computing industry.
Students will have the opportunity to gain in-demand skills for professional roles such as Cloud Developers, Solution Architects, DevOps, and Data specialists.
The programme provides a considered balance of computer science principles, along with a strong focus on the conceptual knowledge and industry practices for cloud computing.
Students can gain a rigorous conceptual understanding of state-of-the art, scalable cloud systems across multiple cloud service providers.
A distinct feature of the programme is the integration of cloud vendor certification that is aligned with programme and module outcomes.
This approach gives students the opportunity to demonstrate industry-transferable competencies in core areas whilst enhancing their employability attributes.
The School of Computer Science has also built a strong partnership with Microsoft through a student-focused Shared Goals Agreement that provides opportunities for students to develop digital skills for cloud computing and access to industry cloud certifications.
These initiatives are designed to enhance the student learning experience, ensuring students are equipped with the skills required to launch and develop their cloud careers in a digital-first economy.
A focus on cutting-edge skillsets required by the cloud computing industry
Integration of cloud vendor certification
Partnership with Microsoft through a student-focused Shared Goals Agreement
Emphasis is placed on the broad concepts of cloud computing for understanding cloud-based compute, storage, and networking, whilst providing the opportunity to develop practical skills around cloud architecture design and deployment, as well as cloud development.
Cloud development is an important topic threaded throughout the programme and is delivered through topics such infrastructure-as-code and serverless computing.
The programme modules assume a familiarity with programming concepts and supporting mathematical frameworks where appropriate.
Each module consists typically of 12 weeks of study, which includes a supporting lecture programme, a series of supported workshop sessions, and time for the completion of assignment exercises and/or examinations.
The final research project module is separate and carried out over the last three months of the programme.
This module explores core cloud computing technologies and their application in a wide range of use cases.
The virtualisation of compute, storage, and networking is discussed and how such resources when deployed on cloud platforms provide high-performance and global scalability.
Students will have the opportunity to create, deploy, and monitor cloud resources and applications.
Particular attention is given to understanding the differences between on-premise resources and cloud, the economic benefits, as well as data governance and service-level agreement implications.
Data storage is a fundamental component of IT systems, applications, and devices, with the volume of data generated increasing significantly every year.
Cloud storage platforms provide a means to store and process vast volumes of structured and unstructured data that enable large scale analytics for insights.
This module will explore and critique cloud-based relational and non-relational databases, and how data is managed and processed, such as transactional processing, batch, and streaming data processing.
Students will have the opportunity to design and deploy a cloud data storage solution.
This module is focused on networking in the cloud, specifically on how to design and deploy secure, software defined networks (SDNs) as part of a cloud application or infrastructure framework.
Public and private IP addressing will be explored as well as the important role of firewall rules and routing.
In addition to IP addressing, load balancing plays a critical role in cloud network systems and will be critiqued in the context of external and internal approaches, as well as geographical load-balancing.
Cloud network security will be discussed throughout the module and how resources such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs) connecting on-premise networks to cloud networks can further enhance network security.
The programme is assessed through a variety of means, including in-class tests, coursework, presentations, posters, and examinations.
The majority of assessments are coursework based, reflecting the practical and applied nature of computer science and cloud computing.
The final stage research project enables students to further specialise in cloud computing and complete a piece of work of significant complexity.
Communication and presentation skills will be assessed by an informal oral presentation (viva voce) with poster presentations in various modules.
The School of Computer Science is a Microsoft Learn for Educators programme member and Cisco Academy member, which gives students on the MSc Cloud Computing programme the opportunity to gain industry recognised qualifications such as Microsoft cloud-focused Fundamentals certifications.
Image: An Azure Kinect device.
This new generation device is natively connected to the cloud for vision and speech analysis, with Industry 4.0 companies piloting it for use in manufacturing.
Our postgraduate teaching is underpinned by world-leading research.
Academic strengths lie in computational neuroscience, machine learning, data analytics, robotics, medical imaging, AI in healthcare, and many aspects of human–computer interaction and games computing.
From optimising the treatment of cancer patients to spearheading the development of next-generation robots for agri-food production, computer scientists at Lincoln are working at the forefront of new technologies.
Students on the MSc Cloud Computing have the opportunity to gain cutting-edge industry certification in areas such as Cloud Data and Cloud AI services.
Students should hold a first or second class honours degree in Computer Science or a related area such as Software Engineering, Computing, Games Computing, Artificial Intelligence, Data Science, or Distributed Systems and Networking.
In addition to the degree requirements, students must be competent in programming as evidenced in their academic degree transcript through programming-based classes.
There is a global skills shortage of graduates with Cloud Computing skillsets.
Upon completion of the programme, graduates are well positioned to fill cloud-focused roles such as a Cloud Developer, Data Engineer, DevOps Engineer, and Cloud Consultant.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/cmpcmpms:
Developments in artificial intelligence, computer vision, cloud computing, artificial intelligence, machine learning, and cyber security have all become a normal part of society's interaction with computing devices.
This Master's programme is designed to equip students with the advanced knowledge and skills needed to develop the innovative solutions required by today's rapidly advancing computing industry.
Through laboratory workshops, lectures, debates, and independent research, this MSc Computer Science provides the opportunity for students to enhance their existing knowledge of computer programming and mathematical frameworks.
Working alongside academic staff, students have the chance to develop a critical understanding and gain practical experience in innovative areas such as computer vision and surveillance, robotics, mobile computing, artificial intelligence, machine learning, and cyber security in order to develop advanced solutions to current and future challenges.
Develop a critical understanding and gain practical experience in innovative
The teaching and learning strategy adopted within the MSc Computer Science derives from a methodology designed to develop knowledge and understanding in the domain of computing.
In particular, students can experience a blend of different approaches.
The programme aims to enable the acquisition of skills through practical workshops in the laboratory, and develop academic knowledge through debate, lectures, discussion, and personal research.
Modules assume a familiarity with object-oriented programming concepts and the supporting mathematical framework, while presenting advanced concepts relating specifically to the computing domain.
Each module consists typically of 12 weeks of study, which includes a supporting lecture programme, a series of supported laboratory sessions, and time for the completion of assignment exercises and/or examinations.
The research project module is an independent study and is supported by a specialised supervisor, and is carried out over the last three months of the programme.
The programme is supported by online access to lecture material and related information.
The programme is assessed through a variety of means, including in-class tests, coursework, presentation, posters, and examinations.
The final stage research project enables students to further specialise and complete a piece of work of significant complexity.
Students should hold a first or second class honours degree in one of the following subjects: Computer Science,  Computing, Computing and Information Systems, Software Engineering, Games Computing, Artificial Intelligence, Data Science, or Cyber Security.
Knowledge of object-oriented programming concepts and a good mathematical framework are required.
This Master’s programme is designed to equip students with the advanced knowledge and skills needed to develop the innovative solutions required by today’s rapidly advancing computing industry.
Students can develop the knowledge and specialist skills necessary to progress to roles in the computing and technology industries.
Some may choose to continue to research at doctoral level.
Dr Wenting Duan wduan@lincoln.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/egrmanms:
October 2025 and Janaury 2026
1 year (16 months if taken with Industrial Placement)
Informed by the needs of industry, this course provides students with the opportunity to develop the strong communication and leadership skills that employers are looking for, and aims to provide an extension beyond undergraduate study for those embarking on, changing, or advancing their chosen career.
Areas of study include combustion and sustainable fuels, managing projects and leadership, energy systems, and risk management.
Delivered by both Lincoln International Business School and the School of Engineering, the programme maximises the specialist knowledge within each School while ensuring a coherent delivery.
Teaching includes the use of real-life case studies, with the aim of enabling students to relate theory to practice across a range of business situations.
Students will have the opportunity to take part in workshops led by business experts, visit companies to view current practices and engage in industry-based projects.
Informed by the needs of industry
A focus on sustainable fuels, finance and accounting, energy systems, and ris
Take part in workshops led by business experts, visit companies to view curre
An option to undertake an industrial placement during the research project
Students are able to study a range of topics to develop a critical understanding of engineering and management theory.
The course incorporates engineering and management core modules which every student must study.
Students can then choose four optional modules, enabling them to tailor their learning to their individual background and career ambitions.
Teaching is informed by real-world examples and students will be expected to participate in lectures, seminars, and workshops to examine, research, discuss, and debate topics.
Methods of study vary across modules, and may include lectures, seminars, workshops, independent study, practical sessions, and research.
Postgraduate level study also involves a significant proportion of independent study, exploring the material covered in lectures and seminars.
For every hour spent in class, students are expected to spend at least two to three hours in independent study.
Course composition and delivery is different for each module and may include lectures, seminars, workshops, independent study, practicals, research, and one-to-one learning.
In support of part-time delivery, where possible, each teaching contact takes over a minimum three hour period, with a minimum of 12 contacts expected across a single term.
Following the taught element of the programme, students can complete either the Engineering Research Project or Engineering Research Project (Industry Placement).
A research project is core to each pathway.
For students with an industry placement the project will form part of this.
The Engineering Research Project provides the chance to complete an in-depth investigation of a specific topic within industry or academia, enabling students to apply new knowledge in a real-life setting.
Students on the Engineering Research Project (Industry Placement) can undertake an eight-month work placement in industry with one of the University’s industry partners, or with an independently sourced organisation.
Students successfully completing this route will receive the alternative award title of MSc Engineering Management (with Industrial Placement).
Students are expected to pay for their own travel, accommodation, and general living expenses while undertaking a placement.
Please note that the option to undertake the Industrial Placement route will be subject to students’ performance during the taught element of the programme and students will be expected to identify and secure their own work placements.
Students will be introduced to prospective employers and supported in this process.
Students who require a student visa to study this programme will be issued a CAS with a course length that should be sufficient to complete the course without the placement module.
If you decide to undertake the module and find a work placement, this will add additional time to your course and a new student visa will be required before the work placement can begin to extend your stay in the UK.
The aim of this module is to enhance the students’ decision capabilities when confronted with strategic or operational choices.
Students will have the opportunity to learn how decision analysis tools can be used to structure and analyse decision problems and how a mix of data and judgement can help decision makers to better achieve their objectives.
Students will undertake a major research or industrially based project,  applying the management methods taught in their elective management module.
Students are expected to solve an industrially relevant problem  using a combination of analytical, experimental, and modelling skills.
The specific content of each project will vary, but in general, the projects  will contain both ‘research’ and ‘design’ components.
Research will involve analytical, computational, and experimental aspects.
Design work will contain specification, design, analysis, manufacture and test work.
All project must be conducted with reference to environmental and sustainability issues, and account for commercial, strategic, and risk issues that would be involved in implementing their design solution  within an engineering business.
The module provides students with the opportunity to explore relevant theory and practice in the areas of project risk, governance, sustainable procurement, and contract management.
Students can examine the impact of complexity, uncertainty, and ambiguity on projects and the ways of how various inherent risks and opportunities can be managed– both at the project and organisational levels.
Methods of risk assessment, response, and monitoring to manage the project to a successful completion will be proposed and scrutinised.
To complement a more conventional risk analysis perspective, futures thinking will play a role in this module.
The aim of this module is to provide the students with an understanding of power systems and the machinery used in power generation applications.
The module builds on fundamental electrical and thermodynamic principles, discussing conventional and renewable energy systems with reference to climate change.
This research methods module aims to prepare students for undertaking the research for their Independent Study.
It reviews core principles of the research methods that students are likely to utilise in their research.
The chosen method should form the basis of their research design, and the structure of the of Independent Study submission.
In the global contemporary setting, ethical and sustainable practice are a key focus within all aspects of business and in particular the responsible approach and management of the supply chain network.
The Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply recognise that the global supply chain sector has a moral obligation to do better in the fight against modern slavery, intolerable working conditions as well as bribery and corruption.
Equally, the supply network of organisations is estimated to be responsible for as much as 90% of harmful emissions that are damaging our planet.
As such, supply chain activities are identified as a primary concern in the global pursuit to reduce greenhouse gas and many other damaging emissions to decrease the negative impact of climate change and human activity.
Therefore, responsible supply chain strategy is gaining direct attention and is recognised as a major evolving challenge for many organisations as they strive to meet their moral, legal, and humanistic aspirations and targets to ensure a prosperous future for all and as such, organisational recognition as a responsible global citizen.
With the potential to work closely with our industrial partners or your own sponsoring companies, the programme aims to provide practical experiences.
Students will also have a range of opportunities such as taking part in workshops led by business experts, visiting companies to view current practices, and engaging in company based projects.
To support these activities, students will have access to a set of careers events that are designed to help to build a CV, deal with psychometric tests, and formulate effective applications.
A variety of assessment methods are used for this course, based primarily on open coursework, in which students are able to access the resources that would be available to them after graduation.
Formative assessment in the shape of problem-based learning allows students the chance to assess and develop their own understanding in an individualised way with the aim of meeting their own personal learning needs and style.
First or Second Class honours degree in an industrial engineering based subject, or equivalent industrial experience.
For those who have already studied a related discipline in engineering, this course offers the opportunity to progress your knowledge to an advanced level.
This programme is aimed at graduates from a wide breadth of engineering disciplines and no previous experience in business and management studies is required.
These specialist courses are designed to help students meet the English language requirements for their intended programme of study:
MSc Engineering Management students are able to develop the strong communication skills and capabilities that employers are looking for in addition to leadership, negotiation and influencing, presentation, and self-awareness.
The programme is aimed at those who wish to embark on, change, or advance their chosen career in engineering to management level.
Dr Nikola Chalashkanov nchalashkanov@lincoln.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/robasyms:
The MSc Robotics and Artificial Intelligence is designed to equip students with the advanced knowledge and skills needed to develop the innovative solutions required by the emerging global industry in Robotics and AI, and across many other sectors where robotics and AI skills are applicable.
These may include robotics and AI in agriculture, food processing, transport, logistics, manufacturing, healthcare, and energy.
The MSc ranges from mechatronics through programming and algorithms for robot control and automation with AI, including details of modern deep learning and large language models (i.e.
how chatbots such as ChatGPT work), robots as physical AI agents, as well as classical and probabilistic AI approaches to robotics perception, navigation, and reasoning.
Industry standard tools such as Python, ROS2, and PyTorch are used throughout.
The programme aims to prepare students to work in a research and development capacity, such as in industrial robotics and AI companies and academic PhD study.
Lincoln hosts the UK's - and one of the world's - largest concentration of agricultural robotics researchers, and is a major hub of UK agribusiness.
Many students choose to specialise in this area, including by collaborating with local companies who have existing R&D relationships with our research.
Course content is informed by research carried out at the University of Lincoln, especially in the Lincoln Centre for Autonomous Systems.
This aims to ensure that content remains consistently underpinned by the latest thinking.
The programme is an extension Master's.
It assumes that students will have already completed a computer science or similar technology-based degree, and will want to extend that knowledge in depth and with specialist focus on Robotics and AI.
Students have the chance to enhance and apply existing knowledge of computer programming and mathematical frameworks through laboratory workshops, lectures, debates, and independent research.
Extend your existing knowledge through this extension Master's
Develop advanced knowledge and skills needed to develop innovative solutions
This module focuses on advanced concepts in robotics.
Students are introduced to navigation and state estimation for mobile robots and discuss optimality principles and relevant algorithms for path planning, trajectory optimisation and control for robot manipulators.
In the second part of the module, there will be a discussion of data-driven approaches that can learn from human teachers and interaction with the environment.
To deepen the understanding of the introduced mathematical concepts, practical examples will be discussed in the lectures as well as implemented in the workshops.
This module introduces the mathematical and practical foundations of robotics which underlie most advanced systems.
Mathematical foundations include relevant engineering mathematics, dynamics and kinematics, probability and elementary control, while practice includes understanding sensors and actuators used in real-world systems.
This module introduces cutting-edge topics in robotics and autonomous systems research areas, including both theory and practical applications.
Industrial applications such as robotics for agriculture and food production will naturally be covered as part of this module.
This module focuses on practical and aspects of software development and engineering for robotics.
It aims to equip students with an in-depth understanding of the specific programming requirements in the domain, such as (soft-) real time processing, coordination & orchestration of robotics systems and different communication paradigms of integrated robotic systems.
Students can engage in practical assignments, programming robots in simulation and the real world.
Different components of robotic systems (examples comprise perception, localisation, path planning, mapping, search & learning) will be taught and appraised, facilitated by lectures and guided learning in workshops.
Students have the chance to develop and understanding of the fundamentals of robotic frameworks and middlewares, enabling them to program and orchestrate complex robotic systems in practice.
Students may have the opportunity to work on tasks informed by state-of-the-art robotics research challenges and competitions.
Where feasible, students will be given the opportunity to work towards specific tasks in such internationally recognised challenges, with the potential to qualify for participation.
The majority of assessments are coursework-based, reflecting the practical and applied nature of computer science.
Our MSc students often publish papers for robotics conferences and in journals during their studies, in collaboration with their lecturers and other researchers at Lincoln.
This style of learning is known as 'student as producer'.
Here are some recent examples with student names in bold, including links to the PDF publications, and some with video demonstrations.
Getting a publication is often a key requirement for obtaining a funded PhD place or industry research and development job.
J Swindell , M Darbyshire, M.
Popović, R.
Polvara.
Discrete Gaussian Process Representations for Optimising UAV-based Precision Weed Mapping .
Proc.
Intelligent Autonomous Systems, 2025.
Heselden JR, Paparas D, Stevenson RL , Das GP.
Enhanced STag Marker System: Materials and Methods for Flexible Robot Localisation.
Machines .
2025; 13(1):2.
L Zhou , O Sinavski, A Polydoros.
Robotic Learning in your Backyard: A Neural Simulator from Open Source Components .
IEEE International Conference on Robotic Computing, 2024.
R Stevenson, D Paparas, O Faris, X Xu, C Merchant, E Smith, B Nicholls, C Fox.
Open Source Hardware Whisker Sensor .
TAROS2024 L Zhou, O Ali, EA Soumo, E Attenborough, J Swindell, G Davies, C Fox.
3D Printer Based Open Source Calibration Platform for Whisker Sensors .
TAROS2024.
A Bora and H Cuayáhuitl.
Systematic Analysis of Retrieval-Augmented Generation-Based LLMs for Medical Chatbot Applications .
Mach.
Learn.
Knowl.
Extr.
6(4), 2355-2374, 2024.
K Gaikwad , R Soni, C Fox, C Waltham.
Open source hardware robotics interfacing board .
TAROS2023
R Trimble , C Fox.
Skid-steer friction calibration protocol for digital twin creation .
SJ Carter, NC Tsagkopoulos, G Clawson , C Fox.
OpenScout: Open Source Hardware Mobile Robot .
Journal of Open Hardware 7 (1), 9, 2023.
( Video )
F Camara, C Waltham, G Churchill , C Fox.
OpenPodcar: an open source vehicle for self-driving car research .
Journal of Open Hardware, 2023 ( Video)
J Davy , C Fox.
Simultaneous Base and Arm Trajectories for Multi-Target Mobile Agri-Robot .
TAROS 2023 ( Video )
G Clawson .
A Technology Readiness Level for Blockchain .
Proceedings of the 38th ACM/SIGAPP Symposium on Applied Computing, 2023
E Alabi , F Camara, C Fox.
Evaluation of OSMC open source motor driver for reproducible robotics research .
TAROS2023.
Perrett, A ., Pollard, H., Barnes, C., Schofield, M., Qie, L., Bosilj, P., & Brown, J.
DeepVerge: Classification of roadside verge biodiversity and conservation potential .
Computers, Environment and Urban Systems, 102, 101968.
V Wichitwechkarn , C Fox.
MACARONS: A Modular and Open-Sourced Automation System for Vertical Farming.
Journal of Open Hardware 7 (1), 1-13, 2023 ( Video )
R Trimble, C Fox.
G Clawson , C Fox.
Blockchain crop assurance and localisation .
UKRAS 2022
J Bennett, B Moncur, K Fogarty, G Clawson , and Charles Fox.
Towards Open Source Hardware Robotic Woodwind: an Internal Duct Flute Player .
ICMC, 2022 ( Video )
Sub-SPARC: Investigation of Imperfect Teachers .
Proceedings of the 5th UK-RAS Conference 2022
J Stevenson , C Fox.
Scaling a hippocampus model with GPU parallelisation and test-driven refactoring .
Biomimetic and Biohybrid Systems (Living Machines) 2022
H Rogers , B Dawson, G Clawson , C Fox.
Extending an Open Source Hardware Agri-Robot with Simulation and Plant Re-identification .
Oxford AIMS Conference 2021
A Henry , C Fox.
Open source hardware automated guitar player ICMC 2021 ( Video )
Heiwolt, K, Mandil, W , Cielniak, G and Hanheide, M (2020) A utomated Topological Mapping for Agricultural Robots, UKRAS20
H Rogers , C Fox.
An open source seeding agri-robot Proceedings of The 3rd UK-RAS Conference, 2020 ( Video )
Millard, A, Ravikanna, R , Groß, R, and Chesmore, D (2019) Towards a Swarm Robotic System for Autonomous Cereal Harvesting , TAROS2019.
Robot Whiskers
Our students present an open source hardware (OSH) design and build a robotic whisker sensing system
Hear from Ayaan, a MSc Robotics and Autonomous Systems student about his time on the course and what you can look forward to if you join the programme.
Read Ayaan's Story
Technical resources available to Robotics and AI students include computer labs, GPUs, a mechatronics fablab, and robot labs including fleet of diverse mobile and social robots, advanced compliant robotic manipulators, and state-of-the-art agricultural robots.
An informal interview by video call with the Programme Leader may also be required to make sure candidates have the right background for the course.
There are two requirements and students will need to provide evidence of both of them in their application:
(1) A first or upper second class honours degree in computer science or a related discipline.
This could include engineering, mathematics, or other numerate science and technology subjects.
(2) Competence in computer programming, roughly to the level of being able to write a basic video game such as Pong in any language.
Acceptable forms of evidence of this skill to include in your application include, but are not limited to: (a) academic degree transcript showing 2:1 level scores in two or more programming classes; (b) a copy of a university, employment, or hobby project report detailing programming work; (c) a link to a source code site such as gitlab or github containing samples of your code.
(d) a certificate of completion of an online programming course and exam such as https://www.udemy.com/course/the-complete-python-developer-certification-course/ or https://www.udemy.com/course/learn-basics-of-c/
Dr Charles Fox chfox@lincoln.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/edc:
Effective communication is vital to helping us share experiences and knowledge, and connect with others .
The School of Education and Communication brings together the fields of education, journalism, and communications to prepare students for their next steps in these exciting fields.
Explore our subject hub to find out more about Education at Lincoln.
Explore Education
Explore our subject hub to find out more about Journalism and Communications at Lincoln.
Explore Journalism

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/edmedmma:
The MA Education offers practicing and aspiring educators opportunities to learn, apply, and produce critical knowledge in the interdisciplinary field of Education, and to use this to inform and transform future educational practice, theory, policy, and institutions.
The programme provides a coherent and flexible postgraduate degree that furthers existing critical understanding of practice and allows aspiring educators to deepen their knowledge of education.
On completion, students will have gained both a broader and deeper understanding of the academic study of education and its relevance to their own experience.
Furthermore, they will have gained the knowledge, skills and confidence to undertake further critical, reflexive, and sensitive research in the field of education and more broadly in the social sciences.
The programme is designed around three core modules and two optional modules.
The core modules aim to support students in identifying their specific research questions through a critical review of the literature; develop the requisite knowledge, understanding, and practical skills in appropriate research methods, and produce a compelling piece of advanced research.
Optional modules allow students to deepen their existing subject knowledge, and/or broaden their understanding of the study of education.
Opportunities to engage with exciting research
Optional modules which allow you to develop in areas of interest to you
Hear from industry experts
Opportunities to develop professional and research skills
Complete a research project in a specialist area
All students are expected to attend the scheduled teaching on the programme.
This takes place on a weekly basis for each module and should be attended face-to-face.
A learning management system (Blackboard) is also used to provide students with access to a range of structured resources, including session recordings, many digitised texts, and key readings.
It is also used more interactively as a means of extending the dialogues that are seen as crucial to students' learning.
As a general guide, we recommend around 20 - 25 hours of independent study a week.
For more detailed information please contact the Programme Leader.
In this module, students can develop their skills of identifying, searching, critically evaluating and synthesising academic literature, as well as the skills needed to understand and apply this knowledge to developing their own research.
The module focuses on critically evaluating research literature in various areas of educational studies and around students' area of research in particular.
The module is intended to help students focus on their study and situate it within the wider field of educational research.
This module aims to provide students with the necessary skills and knowledge of educational research in preparation for their postgraduate research which is the final part of the Master's  in Education Programme.
The module introduces students to research methodologies and methods of conducting empirical social research in the field of education and the challenges associated with it.
This module takes an in-depth view into school bullying dynamics and evidence-based practice that seeks to address said phenomenon.
Causes and consequences of bullying, types of bullying, different roles students and staff play, and cultural considerations will be examined.
Students will be expected to engage with literature, actively engage in discussions, and to take into consideration different aspects of bullying-related situations to come up with potential solutions.
At the end of the module students will have a good understanding of the inner workings of bullying situations, how to support students, and available resources to address bullying.
This course explores the relationship between social justice and education.
It introduces conceptual tools for identifying and challenging injustices in educational contexts, and strategies for developing knowledge, methods and skills for creating social just learning practices and environments.
Education is a powerful activity and institution.
Its importance lies not only in its centrality to national and international policy, but in the widely held belief that education has the capacity to liberate individuals, advance social flourishing and equality, and enable meaningful participation in social and political life.
Yet educational practices and systems can also disempower people, reproduce structures of inequality and perpetuate discriminatory and oppressive social relationships.
Making sense of the complex relationship between education and social justice is therefore an essential capability for educators.
This course aims to provide students with resources to critically assess the personal, social and political implications of diverse educational theories, practices, policies and institutions, and to cultivate practices which promote social justice in your own context.
Themes may include theories of social justice in education; the politics of educational policy and reform; the relationship between education, state, market, family, work and social movements; decolonisation; identity politics and intersectionality; and approaches to social justice in pedagogy, curriculum and educational governance.
This module will explore educational management and leadership with particular reference to the organisational and operational aspects of educational institutions.
It is divided into three related parts.
The first part analyses the organisation, structure and culture of educational institutions drawing upon organisational theory, cultural analysis and the use of metaphor.
The second part explore the nature of leadership in educational institutions, a complex and contested concept.
Particular emphasis is placed on transactional, transformational and constructivist leadership and leadership for learning.
The third part provides an opportunity to critically consider some key issues in educational leadership and management including the nature of learning organisations, leadership for professional development and leading educational settings in challenging circumstances.
This module also is approved to be delivered as a standalone short course.
This module locates Education within Gender and Development frameworks.
Students undertaking this module will be supported to think about people’s intersectional gendered experiences of education in global contexts through the theoretical and applied lenses of Gender and Development theory.
In so doing,  we will consider development and change in education in local and global contexts through applied case study approaches and gendered policy analyses.
You will examine the roles media and communications play in our understanding of each other’s cultures and ideologies and our global society.
You will also consider the role of the media in shaping social interactions, both personally and as communities, with your own lived experience forming an integral part of your study of global media.
This module examines the role of language(s) in education.
Students will explore a series of topics across the module and will reflect on their own experiences of education and how these issues apply.
Through this, they will develop a critical understanding of the central role of language(s) in education and the potential (and varied) impact of linguistic issues such as: endorsing multilingualism, linguistic hegemony and language loss.
Students’ own linguistic experiences will be drawn on as they become critical, language-aware scholars of education across this inter-disciplinary module.
This module is designed to provide students with core knowledge, understanding and skills of mentoring and coaching within an educational context.
Mentoring and coaching in education explores, critiques, and critically evaluates key concepts, theories, practices, models, frameworks, and approaches to mentoring and coaching.
Students will develop a deeper understanding of mentoring and coaching in education through a critical review and critique of the literature, and an evaluation of the empirical and practice-based research.
The students will develop insights into the issues, challenges, and research evidence-base of mentoring and coaching in enhancing professional practice.
Students will be supported in developing their professional practice and deepening their skills through critical reflections, interactive seminars, critical writing and debating a repertoire of mentoring and coaching models, theories, programs, and frameworks.
The module will investigate the research evidence-base of mentoring and coaching in education with a particular focus on impacts and outcomes for participants and organisations.
Students will focus on critically exploring issues related to policy and practice for SEND in both primary and secondary schools and the materials studied can be extended to an adult population.
The module also reflects on international initiative and explore the impact that they have on current policy.
This module will reflect the dynamics of STEM education in the modern world, enabling students to reflect on changing theories and practices in STEM in educational settings.
It will critically examine STEM education and the part it plays within educational settings, including schools and informal learning environments.
Students will have the opportunity to analyse particular areas of STEM education in depth that will allow them to reflect and consider the implications of theory on practice.
The module will offer students the opportunity to examine historical and political aspects of STEM education through literature and practice.
The School of Education offers many opportunities to learn from experienced researchers and be part of exciting new research projects that aim to challenge and improve current educational thinking and practice.
The School’s research areas include:
You can also find out more about the exciting research being undertaken by academic staff within the School of Education.
Lincolnshire Learning Lab has been established to help improve the learning of children, and the working environments for teachers within Lincolnshire.
One of the main aims of the group is to bring academic rigour and evidence-based research into the classroom by engaging with teachers, academics, and other stakeholders in the education system, such as parents and educational consultants.
Assessment is through written assignments, portfolios, and presentations.
Students also receive feedback on their work from teaching staff and their tutor, as well as receiving grades to mark their progress through the curricula.
In addition, students should expect to participate in formative peer review of each other's ideas and work throughout the programme via active group discussion and a variety of presentation methods (eg annual student presentations, and conference and poster sessions).
The University of Lincoln's policy on assessment feedback aims to ensure that academics will return in-course assessments to students promptly - usually within 20 working days of the submission date.
First or second class honours degree or equivalent qualification.
Prior credits earned through a Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE) may count towards this degree.
Contact the School of Education to speak to an advisor about Accreditation of Prior Learning.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/ .
Postgraduate students at the University of Lincoln beneﬁt from inspirational teaching combined with high-quality facilities and learning spaces, great industry links, and unique research opportunities, all of which are designed to help you stand out from the crowd and make the most of your time with us.
Why Postgraduate Study?
Dr Nikolaos Fotou nfotou@lincoln.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/law:
Lincoln Law School is home to a vibrant academic community that combines high-quality teaching with outstanding research.
We are a ‌civically engaged School with strong links to the legal and criminal justice community around Lincoln and beyond.
We foster an informal learning environment that helps to build confidence in a friendly, welcoming, and professional atmosphere.
We support our students to develop a detailed understanding of the rules and institutions that govern our society, as well as the ability to place the law within its social, political, and commercial context, both nationally, and internationally.
Explore our subject hub to find out more about Law at Lincoln.
Explore Law at Lincoln

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/lawiccml:
In today's globalised world, the significance of national boundaries is diminishing and a comprehensive knowledge of the law governing international trade and commercial relationships is of critical importance.
This programme enables students to develop an in-depth knowledge of the law and regulations that govern corporate and commercial activities across national borders.
It aims to prepare them for responding to the changing and dynamic nature of legal relations between corporations, individuals, and states, and gives them the opportunity to reflect on the private and public dimensions of the legal rules necessary to govern the world economy.
Students on this programme are expected to undertake a substantial dissertation, which is designed to enhance research skills through a detailed investigation in an area of their own choice.
Continuing career support after your course finishes
A focus on theoretical knowledge, understanding, and practical experience
Teaching delivered by experts in the field
Emphasis on the development of professional and research skills
You will be expected to undertake eight modules four of which are core modules, and four of which are optional ones which you can select based on your interests and career aspirations.
Typically, teaching is delivered through lectures and seminars, however this varies from module to module.
Across the week you can expect around eight contact hours, and at least one day will be free of classes.
There will also be a large amount of self-directed study with roughly two hours being self directed for every taught hour.
There is a compulsory dissertation module on the course,  and this is a great opportunity for you to engage in an area of research which you are passionate about.
Previous research topics have included corporate social responsibility in Vietnam, and Valuation of Crypto-assets of a Distressed Business.
The module will introduce students to the operations of international businesses and how their activities are influenced by legal frameworks.
Students will be exposed to the legal and socio-economic factors that affect businesses that operate in the global marketplace.
It commences by providing a primer on the nature of international businesses.
Against this background, it expounds on the concept of globalisation and its link with international business.
The course then focuses on the regulatory environment within which international businesses are developed and in which they operate.
Proposed expansion strategies of businesses are also considered within the context of the local and global environment in which they operate.
This module aims to give students the opportunity to develop a thorough insight into the theoretical, legal, practical and ethical issues surrounding corporate governance and its influence on the management structure of modern companies.
It will explore the relationships which exist between directors, shareholders, management, the company itself and other internal and external stakeholders.
Students will have the chance to develop a firm understanding of the concept of corporate governance and the basic principles underlying the implementation of UK and international corporate governance codes.
This module focuses on the protections offered to foreign investors by international investment law and investor-State dispute resolution procedures.
These protections are found in a network of bilateral and multilateral treaties as well as in customary law.
The module also explores recent developments in international investment law and how it relates to other areas of international law, such as international development law or permanent sovereignty on national resources.
The module aims to provide an understanding of the international law of trade.
In particular, it focuses on acquiring a deep knowledge of the importance and functioning of the World Trade Organisation in regulating the trade in goods and services.
It also supports an analysis and evaluation of its dispute settlement mechanism.
The module provides an understanding of the rules in the context of wider aims of international law, such as the protection of health or the environment.
Dissertation: 12000-15000 words 100%
The production of the dissertation itself provides the student with an opportunity to undertake a substantial piece of investigative academic work on a chosen area of international corporate and commercial law.
In the dissertation the students may develop ideas encountered in the taught modules or with other issues relevant to international corporate and commercial law.
The completed dissertation is expected to be an original and independent piece of work.
It should, in the context of existing knowledge, demonstrate in-depth understanding, critical analysis and original thinking, as well as general academic and communication skills.
Undertaking the necessary research and writing the dissertation is designed to provide academic opportunities to apply the research skills and presentational techniques developed during the programme.
This module  aims to explore structural or emerging issues as well as developing areas of international law.
By following this module, students should get a better grasp of some areas of development in international law, and how research in law informs and participates in these development.
The module introduces students to the concept of corporate social responsibility (CSR) as well as Business and Human Rights.
These two separate but overlapping concepts inform how we currently understand the obligations of corporations beyond shareholders.
Through this module, students will take part in the debates surrounding it so that they are able to critically evaluate the concepts and their practical implications for companies, regulatory bodies and policy makers in a globalised environment.
To do so, student will look at the connections between the national corporate law obligations and International legal obligations.
The aim of this module is to provide students with the foundations of international law.
These are necessary to underpin the understanding how the various field of international law operate, whether it regards the protection of the environment or fostering international commerce.
This module is focussed on providing the structural elements of international law such as the sources, actors and international institutions.
The module will enable students to gain a critical understanding of the impact and operation of this area of law to many contemporary issues.
This module provides the opportunity for students to develop a critical understanding of the idea of international criminal justice.
The module aims to address the key issues and concepts in and policies underlying the enforcement of international criminal law considering the legal and political environment in which international criminal courts and tribunals operate.
The principle focus will be the international crimes which come within the jurisdiction of the current international courts and tribunals – that is war crimes, crimes against humanity, genocide, and aggression– and analysing whether these institutions are effective for the pursuit of justice and peace within the international system.
In this module students will be introduced to the different methods of international dispute resolution in both a public and private law context.
This module explores the legal frameworks governing international dispute resolution along with both the political and legal context and concerns relating to them.
The module will examine the principal approaches to the settlement of international disputes in public international law and will also introduce students to the increasingly important area of private international law.
Students will gain an understanding of the nature of international disputes, both public and private, and the options for resolving them and how a chosen option might be informed by the type of dispute presented.
This module examines the development and operation of international environmental law, considering in particular the historical evolution of the law, the elaboration of multilateral environmental regimes and the increasing judicial attention given to environmental issues.
The module will also consider the issue of responsibility and liability for harm from environmental degradation as it is tackled at the international level.
The aim of this module is to provide an opportunity for students to develop a critical understanding of international human rights, and the way in which the concept of such rights is used to promote respect for certain standards and to protect the rights of individuals.
The module will involve considering the role of international organisations (such as the United Nations); regional mechanisms (such as the European Convention on Human Rights); and the enforcement of international standards at the global, regional and domestic levels.
The aim of this module is to introduce students to an important and dynamic area of international law, the law of the sea.
Students will have the opportunity to learn about maritime zones, the law of maritime delimitation, the rules on safety at sea, the protection of the marine environment, fisheries and marine scientific research.
The module will enable students to gain a critical understanding of this area of international law through applying what they have learned to contemporary issues.
The financial services industry in various countries have undergone extensive regulatory reforms, particularly after the financial crisis.
This course is focused on the law governing the regulation of the financial industry across various states.
It starts by unearthing the rationale for regulation, particularly for banking institutions.
It then focuses on the role and responsibilities of regulatory bodies.
It specifically examines the process of authorisation and supervision throughout the lifespan of financial industries, for example banks and investment businesses.
It also looks at how the regulators facilitate good governance in regulated institutions, effect sanctions to mandate compliance with the legal framework, or assist in the restructuring or resolution of such institutions.
Modules are mainly assessed by written assignments, oral presentations, and group work.
Students will also write a dissertation.
There are no written examinations.
The University of Lincoln's policy on assessment feedback aims to ensure that academics will return in-course assessments to students promptly - usually within 15 working days of the submission date.
This programme aims to equip you with the necessary knowledge and skills required to conduct transnational work within business and industry.
The understanding of the legal issues at stake in terms of international economic law, international trade law, and international investment law aim to provide a grounding for careers in firms that either invest and operate in a number of different jurisdictions or which have strong commercial relationships with investors or customers in other countries.
First or second class honours degree in a relevant subject such as Law, accountancy or business-related subjects which include an introduction to business law.
For each course, there may additional costs.
These may be with regard to the specific clothing, materials, or equipment required.
Some courses provide opportunities for students to undertake field work or field trips.
Where these are compulsory, the cost for travel and accommodation will be covered by the University.
Where these are optional, students will normally be required to cover their own transport, accommodation, and general living costs.
With regards to text books, the University provides students who enrol with a comprehensive reading list and our extensive library holds either material or virtual versions of the core texts.
However, students may prefer to purchase some of these for themselves and will be responsible for this cost.
Dr Nicolas Kang-Riou
nkangriou@lincoln.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/intlawml:
The LLM International Law programme enables students to develop an in-depth understanding of the law in relation to key international subjects.
Students are encouraged to consider the role of the law in international affairs and to develop a critical understanding of how the law affects all aspects of international activity, from trade and prosecuting crimes, to the use of force in international relations, human rights, and protecting the environment.
Students can examine the role and relationships of international organisations and institutions such as the United Nations, the International Court of Justice, and the European Union.
The programme is informed by the latest debates and developments in international law and aims to engage students in real-world case studies and dilemmas.
The programme also allows students to undertake a substantial dissertation, which is designed to enhance research skills through a detailed investigation in an area of their own choice.
You will be expected to undertake eight modules, four of which are core modules, and four of which are optional ones that you can select based on your interests and career aspirations.
Across the week you can expect around eight contact hours.
There is a compulsory dissertation module on the course, and this is a great opportunity for you to engage in an area of research which you are passionate about, based on the modules studies.
The Dissertation module comprises two elements:
Research methods (20%)
The research methods element of the dissertation module comprises a total of four research training workshops (4 x 2hrs), two taking place in the Autumn term and two taking place in the Spring term.
Students are assessed through a dissertation proposal.
The Dissertation (80%)
The production of the dissertation itself provides the student with an opportunity to undertake a substantial piece of investigative academic work on a chosen area of international law (public or private international law or international legal aspects of EU law and governance).
In the dissertation the students may develop ideas encountered in the taught modules or with other issues relevant to international law.
The completed dissertation should be an original and independent piece of work.
Undertaking the necessary research and writing the dissertation can provide academic opportunities to apply the research skills and presentational techniques developed during the programme.
This module gives students a contextualized understanding of how intra- and international migration is regulated and the way in which such regulations affect the rights of migrants.
The course discusses critically both the theory and practice of immigration and asylum law.
By the end of the module, students are expected to understand the social, economic, legal and political nature of immigration law, the machinery of immigration control, the construction of British citizenship, the current state of European immigration law and free movement rights as well as theories of political and social emancipation in a critical context.
Modules are mainly assessed by written assignments, however with some courses, modules may be assessed with student presentation.
Students will also be expected to write a substantial dissertation.
This course has been designed to provide you with the opportunity to develop a bedrock of knowledge and skills to pursue or further develop careers, working in business, industry, or government.
This course also aims to equip students with the skills and knowledge for transitional work within business and industry.
First or second class honours degree in Law, International Relations, Social Sciences with Introduction to Law, Criminology or Political Sciences.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/lbs:
Lincoln International Business School is dedicated to working with students and organisations to find solutions that enhance the contribution of business to society.
For our students, that means developing their business skills and knowledge to improve their career readiness.
For organisations, that means helping them to succeed through effective governance, responsible leadership, improved productivity, and organisational innovation.
We take particular pride in our commitment to the Principles for Responsible Management , which underpin our teaching, scholarship, and research , and in our innovative approaches to education that treat our learners as partners in the learning journey.
Explore our subject hub to find out more about Accountancy, Finance, and Economics at Lincoln.
Explore our subject hub to find out more about Management at Lincoln.
Explore our subject hub to find out more about Marketing and Tourism at Lincoln.
Our distance learning provision offers a wide range of qualifications to suit you and your schedule.
Our suite of military programmes are designed to allow serving members of all three services and MOD civilians to achieve academic recognition from their extensive work experience and formal training.
Executive Development at Lincoln aims to offer a platform and a wealth of opportunities to engage the business community.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/accfinms:
MSc Accounting and Finance is designed to provide students with the knowledge, skills, and understanding of core accounting and finance principles.
The programme provides students with the opportunity to gain a clear understanding of the joint role of accounting and finance in ensuring successful operations in a range of business settings.
Students can develop their understanding of the key principles and practical skills required to prepare and analyse accounts and related financial information, and learn about financial management decision making and the methods used to raise finance for companies.
Accredited by professional accountancy bodies
Hear from visiting speakers from industry
Tailored final project options
Delivery methods vary between modules but will include a combination of lectures, seminars, workshops, guest speakers, and case studies, allowing students the opportunity to not only learn from experts in each module but also have the time to undertake independent research and practice questions to consolidate learning.
Students will also receive one-to-one supervision for the independent research module.
This programme is available for both a September and February start.
Optional modules may be restricted for those choosing to enrol in February due to student numbers, timetabling, and staffing constraints.
Please note that February admission is only available for full-time study.
Each module typically consists of two or three weekly teaching hours over a teaching term.
Four modules are usually studied per term, equating to eight to 12 hours per week.
Part-time students usually study two modules per term, equating to four to six hours of contact time per week.
Hours of study can vary from term to term for both full and part-time students and can be spread throughout the week.
As a general guide, for every hour spent in class, students are expected to spend at least four hours in independent study.
The MSc Accounting and Financial Management programme at the University of Lincoln has been awarded the highest level of accreditation by the professional accountancy body AICPA/CIMA.
This allows our students and graduates to benefit from an accelerated route to the CIMA Professional Qualification and the globally respected Chartered Global Management Accountant (CGMA) designation.
As a result of this accreditation, students and graduates of the programme are required to complete only five CIMA exams, beginning at the Management Case Study level, to achieve full CIMA qualification.
This module aims to equip students with the skills and knowledge necessary to critically analyse financial statements and understand the role of assurance in financial reporting.
Students will explore various accounting ratios and financial analysis techniques to evaluate the position, performance, and cash flow of organisations.
The module also covers the implications of changes in accounting regulations and the importance of assurance in maintaining the integrity of financial information.
The emphasis on integrating quantitative data and analytical insights into formal communications aligns with modern business practices, where data-driven decision making is crucial.
Understanding the implications of changes in accounting regulations ensures that students are up to date with current standards and practices.
Finally understanding the role of assurance in financial reporting, is vital for maintaining trust and integrity in financial information.
This module examines corporate governance concepts and principles in both national and international contexts, and aims to teach the key skills necessary to apply strategic thinking to governance, sustainability, finance, law and other areas.
The lack of strategic thinking has been repeatedly identified as a major weakness in organisations, where business leaders often rely on past experience and best practice, ignoring creativity and imagination as well as the wealth of structured analytical methods.
The syllabus aims to evaluate and combine the use of traditional prescriptive strategic planning tools such as a critical value-adding element with a hypothesis-driven, strategic thinking paradigm.
This module prepares you to undertake a substantial independent project.
It introduces you to the core principles of research design and methods you are likely to encounter during independent study.
The module seeks to develop your competency and confidence in research methodology to a Master's level.
Sustainability practices are wide ranging and include various managerial decisions, monitoring environmental damage, and external financial reporting.
In light of climate change and recent environmental disasters, sustainability practices are a growing concern to investors, creditors and regulators, all of whom demand greater transparency and accountability.
The first part of the module provides an in-depth overview of current issues and best practices in sustainability and integrated reporting from both managerial and financial perspectives and develops an understanding of an essential role that sustainability practices and transparency play in corporate governance worldwide.
The second part of the module, which is designed with support of the Institute of Business Ethics, focuses on business ethical issues and ethical decision-making.
The module aims to develop students, as future business leaders, managers or governance professionals, who understand and appreciate the importance of going beyond numbers and supporting good ethical business practices to help companies to sustain long-term success.
The module examines the responsibilities of organisations to different stakeholder groups and develops an understanding of fundamental ethical principles and ethical dilemmas in organisations across different job roles.
The module also aims to explore the role of information technology (IT) in sustainability governance, a range of ethical questions that arise from the use of IT in business, and how IT can support organisations’ sustainability strategies.
The dissertation provides the opportunity to demonstrate the ability to reflect critically on the aspects relating to their Master's programme.
The vehicle will be the researching and writing of a dissertation, based on the methods delivered in the pre-requisite QM modules.
The dissertation is the capstone of the Master's learning process and allows the student to demonstrate mastery in scholarship of a programme related topic that they have selected in amalgamation with supervisory tutors.
The programme utilises a range of assessments including project work, group presentations, assignments, and objective tests.
Students are also expected to write a research proposal and 12,000-word dissertation,  and it's encouraged that this linked to their major programme title.
Sylvester graduated from our MSc Accounting and Financial Management in 2025 and has since secured offers from prestigious firms such as PwC, KPMG, and Forvis Mazars.
He describes stepping into the corporate world with confidence, ready to apply everything he's learnt during his time at the University of Lincoln.
The programme challenged me to keep learning and create valuable personal and professional relationships.
Most importantly, it gave me the confidence to believe in my ability to achieve any goal I set for myself.
Adapting quickly was essential, as I came from a different country with a distinct culture and academic system.
The university and my tutors were incredibly supportive during this transition, always available to help me navigate unfamiliar challenges.
First or second class honours degree and grade C in GCSE Mathematics.
Please note that this course may not be suitable for students who have completed an undergraduate programme in accounting or finance within the UK.
This course provides the opportunity to develop analytical skills which can be highly valued by employers in the public and private sectors.
Our graduates have secured roles in audit firms, small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), and local accounting practices based in Lincoln and other parts of the UK.
Several of our international students have also successfully obtained sponsored employment opportunities with UK-based employers after graduating from the programme.
Mr Umer Farooq UFarooq@lincoln.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/banfinms:
MSc Banking and Finance is designed to prepare students for a career in the financial sector, where demand is high for specialists with knowledge of corporate finance, banking and financial market, investment and sustainable financial management.
In line with the latest developments and challenges within the global financial services sector, the programme is designed to provide advanced skills, essential for a successful career in retail, commercial, sustainable finance, investment and private banking.
The core curriculum encompasses a diverse range of subjects including finance, economics, quantitative methods, and fintech.
Students will delve into the latest financial theories, acquire advanced skills to analyse financial matters and critically examine the current challenges and issues facing financial institutions.
In addition to the standard MSc Banking and Finance route, students can select from two additional pathways which lead to the awards of MSc Banking and Finance (Finance and Investment) or MSc Banking and Finance (Sustainable Financial Management), allowing students to align their academic journey with their career aspirations and areas of expertise.
Delivered by a diverse, international teaching team
Flexible study pathways to align with your career aspirations
Access to the industry-standard Bloomberg Terminal
The MSc in Banking and Finance is a one-year Master's course combining advanced study and research.
The base programme includes four core modules: Fintech, Applied Corporate Finance, Portfolio Analysis and Responsible Investing, and Sustainable Financial Reporting.
The remaining modules are defined by choice of pathway.
The first term gives a comprehensive foundation knowledge of financial markets, institutions, and intermediaries, along with a focus on understanding the role of banks and other institutions within this framework.
From the second term, students will have the opportunity to explore one of the following specialisations:  Banking and Finance, Finance and Investment, or Sustainable Financial Management.
Students following the Finance and Investment route can study specialist topics such as fixed income and wealth management and investment and valuation.
Students following the Sustainable Financial Management pathway can study topics such as sustainable financial reporting and the green economy and sustainable development governance.
Each student will be expected to write a dissertation, giving the opportunity to work with one of the Department's experienced lecturers on a selected topic and apply your knowledge to a specific problem.
Assessment methods reflect the differing theoretical and practical approaches and learning outcomes of each individual module.
These methods will vary from module to module.
Each student will also be expected to write a dissertation, providing the opportunity to work with one of the Department's experienced lecturers on a selected topic and apply your knowledge to a specific problem.
The standard MSc Banking and Finance course has been approved as an academic partner for the Financial Risk Manager certification by GARP, the world's leading organisation for risk managers.
As part of the FRM University Affiliation Course, eligible students can apply for FRM scholarships that cover the cost of registration for the FRM examination.
Approval is currently pending for the named pathway programmes.
The University is also in process of applying for University Accredited Partner Affiliation with the CFA Institue.
This programme is designed to integrate practice-based learning and trading simulation activities, equipping students with the employability skills needed to excel in an internationally competitive environment.
Industry-standard databases, such as Bloomberg, are embedded in many modules, offering students the opportunity to earn the Bloomberg Market Concepts (BMC) certificate.
Additionally, the LSMIF initiative provides hands-on training through portfolio simulation exercises, stock pitch competitions, and market analysis projects.
Through the academic year, our students have the chance to hear from experts from a wide range of industries who will share their knowledge.
Previous speakers include Director of Financial and Strategic Risk at NatWest Group, Dr Alessandra Mongiardino, and mathematician, Dr Simon Smith.
This is a non-specialist degree and although a background in the subjects covered is welcome, it is not essential.
The entry requirements are a minimum of a 2.2 honours degree or equivalent and grade B in GCSE Mathematics or equivalent.
Evidence of quantitative methods or mathematics during an undergraduate degree (or A Level Grade C or above in Mathematics) is valuable.
Students from a variety of backgrounds are encouraged to apply and applicants may be invited for interview to provide effective information and guidance or for non-standard entry.
This programme with pathways is designed to provide you with advanced skills essential for a successful career in retail, commercial, sustainable finance, investment or private banking.
This course is ideal for those wanting to work as a loan officer, private banker, private wealth consultant, or contribute to the back and middle offices of an investment bank in roles such as risk management, sustainable finance and reporting, or support services.
Dr Samy Amer samer@lincoln.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/mktdigms:
The evolution of the internet and the way technology is forever revolutionising the way products and services are consumed in both their ideology and their functionality has fundamentally changed the strategies and tactics used within marketing.
The connected consumer is the new norm where people constantly split their attention between devices and the world around them.
Human attention is now at a premium as advertisements vie for visibility in a landscape populated by an expanse of everyday people passing on their own ideas and persuading others to think the same way.
Building and growing a brand is not just a challenge of visibility, it is also creating something that resonates with the consumer.
Digital marketing is a component of marketing that applies digital mediums to realise marketing goals.
The fundamental shift in consumption habits has expanded the ways marketers can understand consumer behaviour and they ways in which they can reach customers and build relationships.
The strategies and tactics used within digital marketing is always changing and evolving with the advent of new technologies and the impact they have on consumer behaviour and consumption habits.
The role of the digital marketer is diverse.
They develop, implement, and manage digital marketing campaigns which play a major role in enhancing brand awareness.
They harness different digital mediums for advertising and build relationships with customers digitally while evaluating their campaigns using analytics and metrics.
The skills required to enter the marketing industry are specialist where in many instances, the digital marketer is expected to be proficient at them all.
MSc Digital Marketing is a specialist programme designed for graduates wanting to practice digital marketing and move into future leadership roles.
It has been developed to meet the needs of employers seeking candidates with digital marketing skills that add immediate value to both the workplace and to your own entrepreneurial activities.
Benefit from professional skills workshops
Explore the theory and practice of digital marketing
Develop key leadership skills
The programme is composed of eight core modules plus a Final Project.
It is delivered using a combination of lectures, seminars, and Professional Skills Workshops.
Weekly contact hours on this programme may vary depending on the module and the stage of study.
Postgraduate level study involves a significant proportion of independent study, exploring the material covered in lectures, seminars, and Professional Skills Workshops.
As a general guide, for every hour spent in class, students are expected to spend at least two hours in independent study.
The curriculum is intentionally designed to reflect the realities of digital marketing practice, with a strong emphasis on employability and professional readiness.
Students are actively encouraged to develop digital strategies for their own businesses, future career sectors, or current workplaces, enabling them to apply their learning in a way that is both personally meaningful and professionally valuable.
The Marketing Research Group is a community of experts involved in exciting research across areas such as AI, virtual reality, social media, digital advertising, relationship marketing, and consumer behaviour.
The relationships between customers and brands has evolved with the development of digital technology.
In the world of digital marketing, it is data that drives customer understanding which in turn provides the underpinning for creating meaningful value offerings that ultimately drives competitive advantage.
The ethical accumulation of customer data has become so embedded in everyday marketing activities that marketers are faced with volumes that can no longer be managed by human labour alone.
Artificial Intelligence is therefore called upon to mine this wealth of data to unearth new customer insights in a timely manner.
Brands now look to these insights to inform their decision making when developing responsible solutions for their customers.
By making ethical judgements when managing, using and handing data, digital marketers are able to drive shared values with their customers through the design and delivery of their digital marketing campaigns.
In the midst of digital transformation, the inevitable challenges related to acquisition, validity, quality and accuracy of big data require ethical and sustainable data management and governance.
To embrace the power of AI and move in the digital future, businesses will need to leap from using machine learning tools to automated processes.
This module will introduce students to the concept of big data and how it is mined using artificial intelligence to uncover customer insights that will drive competitive advantage.
It will explore the various sources of customer data and how they are ethically collected and stored in a centralised location.
Students will learn how blockchain and AI processes produce meaningful insights out the data and how digital marketers use them to inform their decision making when developing responsible solutions within their wider marketing strategy.
The skills developed in this module may be useful for students to select and apply appropriate technologies to support reasoned decision making.
Students can also develop ability to apply data analytics to tackle and solve demanding problems in marketing practice.
Customer databases, often called Customer Relationship Management systems (CRM), form the nucleus of many digital marketing strategies.
While some efforts are aimed at attracting new customers, its main focus is building meaningful relationships with existing customers to promote brand loyalty, positive word-of-mouth and to extend the customer lifetime value.
By ethical collecting and responsibility leveraging customer data, marketers are better positioned to deliver personalised, relevant and effective marketing messages to their customers.
Email remains one of the most effective ways to create leads and build customer loyalty as it delivers the marketing message direct to the consumer.
This module will introduce students to relationship marketing by focusing on how databases and email marketing artificial intelligence are responsibly leveraged to establish, maintain and enhance relationships with customers and other stakeholders.
It will consider areas such as the motivations for forming relationships, the strategic implications of relationship stages and the strategies used for customer retention and loyalty.
Students will consider the ethical collection of data and the responsible judgements made when handling and managing its use.
Using metrics and analytics to support decision making, this module offers an in-depth insight in the development of the database and how email is strategically used to build and maintain relationships.
A brand is the myth created by an organisation to promote a recognisable feeling by those who perceive it.
Brands are not just products and services, they embody a wider set of meanings that must be carefully crafted and managed so they continue to be relevant and meaningful in the constantly changing marketplace.
The evolution of the internet and the way technology is forever revolutionising the way brands are consumed in both their ideology and their functionality, is an ongoing challenge for marketers.
The connected consumer is the way our consumers live their everyday lives; constantly splitting their attention between devices and the world around them.
Not only do today’s customers expect a brand to have a digital presence, they want to engage in real-time interactivity and two-way dialogue to realise the full brand experience.
This module will introduce students to branding strategy and the way digital technologies are responsibly used to build brand awareness and knowledge, shape attitudes, and improve recognition and recall.
By harnessing online tools such as social media, search, mobile, online advertising, email marketing, customer relationship management databases, and automated marketing, marketers are able to strategically develop their brand story to create a coherent digital identity and increase customer engagement.
Students will look to future trends of digital consumption while considering the marketing capability of the organisation when making responsible and sustainable decision making.
Using metrics and analytics to support decision making, this module offers an in-depth insight in way online is used to strategically build, maintain, and make visible the digital brand myth.
An effective digital marketing strategy helps businesses make the right decisions to be successful online.
Where the internet has blurred geographic boundaries, digital marketers must consider their value offering within the global marketplace.
By establishing the businesses current market position and identifying responsible value offerings, a digital marketer uses data driven decision making to identify potential responsible business opportunities and sets objectives to guide the planning process.
The digital plan considers the marketing capabilities of the business and outlines all key online activities and the resources needed for its implementation.
Only once the plan has been developed can all the digital touch points be managed in a coherent and coordinated way.
This module lays the foundation for budding marketers to confidently plan and deliver a successful digital strategy.
By evaluating the drivers and barriers to responsible value creation and considering the ethical issues when formulating the digital marketing plan, students are introduced to digital marketing practices that manage resources in a socially responsible way.
Using digital marketing strategy models, theories and concepts, students are introduced to frameworks that encourage logical and ethical decision making during the development of effective digital plans.
This top-down approach to the digital marketing operation allows students to take a bird’s eye view of the complete digital marketing journey.
The growing popularity of ecommerce means businesses must learn digital marketing strategies to attract, convert and retain customers from a globalised marketplace.
Website design has never been so important to maintain customer attention and guide them through an engaging purchasing process.
Although without a robust SEO strategy particular to the focus country, even the very best websites selling the very best products and services become lost in the noise of search engine results.
The omnichannel customer journey is now more diversified than ever before with multiple touchpoints and higher than ever customer expectations.
To gain competitor advantage marketers need to navigate the constantly shifting landscape to maintain website relevancy and visibility.
This module will introduce students to ecommerce business models to inform the strategic approach to wider business objectives.
Sustainable supply chains from both the local and global perspectives will be considered.
The online servicescape will be explored and in particular, how it can be manipulated to create the desired customer experience and promote engagement.
Students will learn how to embed the website into the customer journey while also contributing to a wider SEO strategy and be introduced to a range of metrics and analytics that can be used to inform decision making.
Value creation through the tactical use of digital media in the SEO process will also be unpacked to collectively provide students with the strategic tools to maintain visibility in what is a crowded market place.
The final project provides an opportunity for students with a range of experiences and interests to apply and develop their existing skills and knowledge to an independent study project, which affords an opportunity for both the expression of original thought and creativity, together with the application of analytical skills and critical reasoning.
Our approach to research projects is to facilitate innovative approaches and diverse pathways to the final assessed piece of work.
This module is designed to provide students with a conceptual and theoretical background in leadership, and an opportunity to develop leadership competencies suited to the demands of the contemporary organisation.
It covers topics such as leadership style, followership, ethical and responsible leadership, gender and leadership, cross-cultural leadership and leadership 4.0.
Over the course of this module, students will gain an understanding and appreciation of leadership and the emerging demands on leaders in the digital age.
This module has an applied focus and requires students to reflect on and apply theories and techniques to their personal real-world context in order to enhance their leadership practice.
This module aims to equip students for the business environment by incorporating a range of practical and professional skills.
Students have the chance to be coached through the process by a team coach and receive mentoring support from academics and business representatives.
The topics are selected and designed in close collaboration to industry in order to prepare students for a dynamic work environment.
Social media marketing and digital advertising are pivotal components of a digital marketing strategy.
Effective social media marketing can improve a business’s online presence increasing brand awareness, improving engagement, building brand loyalty and increasing online conversions.
While digital advertising is the art of leveraging different mediums such as social media, search engines, mobile apps and websites, it is the strategies and tactics used to cut through the noise and gain attention from customers that becomes critical for success.
By employing a global mindset, digital marketers are able to create social media and digital advertising strategies that will create value for their target customers on platforms particular to that country.
This module explores the way earned, paid and owned digital media are collectively leveraged to meet digital marketing objectives through the vehicles of social media and digital advertising.
Students will be introduced to the co-creation of value through brand communities and consumer tribes as a way of building brand equity and customer retention.
Advertising theories, concepts and models will be evaluated with particular consideration of consumer trends in the consumption of content.
It provides a critical appraisal of popular social platforms, adblocking, mobile advertising, display advertising and PPC advertising and the role of creative copywriting used to gain consumer visibility and promote engagement.
Our Professional Skills Workshops introduce you to commonly used industry platforms including websites, sentiment analysis, and trend software.
Where possible, digital marketing and business experts will also be invited to the workshops to deliver interactive support and guidance in addition to imparting industry insights and good practice.
A range of assessments methods are used in this programme, including presentations, reports, essays, business proposals, reflective commentaries, and portfolios which may include brief writing, pitch presentation, infographic creation, website planning, and content writing.
All modules are mapped to programme-level outcomes and assessment activities are designed to be relevant, inclusive, and diverse.
These prioritise authentic real-world, live challenges, and experiential learning, fostering global mindsets and problem-solving skills, active learning, critical thinking, effective communication, and independence in learning.
The assessment activities include measurement of student performance and retained learning, enabling compliance with AACSBs Assurance of Learning.
Formative assessment is embedded within all modules with the aim of providing students with feedback on how to improve and develop their assessments and other activities.
It is designed to support the student's learning journey in becoming more self-directed and self-evaluative, capable of setting their own goals and overseeing their own progress.
The University of Lincoln's policy on assessment feedback aims to ensure that academics will return in-course assessments to students promptly usually within 15 working days of the submission date.
Applicants would be expected to have a minimum 2:2 honours degree in marketing, business, or management.
Accredited prior learning (APL) with significant marketing experience will also be considered.
Applications from individuals with alternative UG study area degrees who have least 2-3 years' experience in a marketing role and/or a professional marketing qualification will be considered on an application by application bases, and interviews will be held where appropriate.
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages: https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications.
Dr Caroline Glowka KGlowka@lincoln.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/busintms:
Knowledge across a range of disciplines is required by students looking to understand business operations in an international context, and this course aims to help students develop the necessary knowledge and qualities to compete effectively in both the domestic and international labour markets.
You are able to gain a firm grounding in the theories and practice of international business, enabling you to contribute to the performance of various kinds of organisations all over the world.
The programme offers a high level of support for international students.
This includes support in English language, orientation to studying in the UK, postgraduate study skills, the development of enterprising and employable career capabilities, and pastoral support.
Close engagement with the International Office, English Language Centre, Student Services, Careers and Employability Team, library, and other central services are essential aspects of this support.
Business graduates may use this programme to examine the subject area in more depth, while those from other backgrounds can combine their existing knowledge and skills with international business theory.
Explore theories and practice of international business
Develop key postgraduate study skills
Complete a dissertation in a specialist area
High level of support for international students
Students on this programme are expected to read extensively and stay aware of current theoretical debates within the literature, including relevant journals.
Lectures are used primarily in discipline-bound areas.
Lecture materials may be enhanced by audio-visual material in the early stages of the course to provide additional aid to overseas students facing an unfamiliar learning environment.
Classes are supplemented with discussion and debate on the rapid and often spontaneous changes in international business.
Seminars are also a feature of the course.
MSc International Business students are expected to study nine core modules which are designed to develop understanding of international business, communication skills, and other essential graduate attributes.
The degree concludes with a dissertation which is designed to encourage innovation and diverse pathways to the final assessed product.
In this respect, the dissertation is an extended project that can accommodate a range of independent work.
Each module typically consists of two weekly teaching hours over a teaching term.
Students will normally study four modules per term and therefore eight per week.
Part-time students will usually study two modules per term, equating to four hours per week.
Hours of study may vary from term to term for both full and part-time students and can be spread throughout the week.
Postgraduate level study involves a significant proportion of independent study exploring the material covered in lectures and seminars.
As a general guide, for every hour spent in class, students are expected to spend at least four to five hours in independent study.
The module equips business students with the skills and knowledge to understand the role of data analytics and AI in contemporary business contexts.
Students will explore different types of data analytics and AI concepts and their application in business.
Through the module students will learn through hands-on experience with both traditional & specialist data analysis software to develop skills to manage data and information in digital contexts.
The "Finance for Business Management" module is designed to equip students with practical financial knowledge applicable in real-world business scenarios.
This module emphasises understanding and applying financial concepts to make informed business decisions, rather than focusing on complex calculations.
Students will explore how financial principles are integrated into business operations, enhancing their ability to interpret financial data and use it strategically.
By the end of the module, students will be able to critically analyse financial statements, understand budgets and cost behaviours, and evaluate investment opportunities, all within the context of managing a business.
This approach ensures that students are prepared to handle financial challenges and contribute to the financial health and strategic goals of their organisations.
The module features a summative assessment designed to allow students to demonstrate their ability to communicate effectively with different stakeholders.
The Independent Project (Pathways) module enables you to undertake a substantive project in the context of your chosen degree specialism, and within the Lincoln International Business School’s commitment to sustainable and responsible management practice.
The aim of the module is to clearly illustrate your ability to synthesise the different business domains and management perspectives studied during your course and apply them through an independent project.
You can engage with contemporary business and research themes as you explore innovative and creative ways to complete their chosen pathway.
Entrepreneurship is an essential skillset in the development at global level of new and existing businesses, social enterprises, and more broadly societies and their economies.
Enterprise is defined as the application of creative ideas and innovations to practical situations, combining creativity, ideas development, and problem-solving with expression, communication, and practical action.
Entrepreneurship is the application of enterprise skills to creating and growing organisations in an international context in order to identify and build on opportunities.
This module draws on the latest UK QAA Guidance on Enterprise and Entrepreneurship in Higher Education and aims to develop, at an international level, enterprise awareness, an entrepreneurial mindset, and entrepreneurial capability, which can lead to entrepreneurial effectiveness which can be applied in a range of contexts.
The module equips future global leaders with advanced strategic and marketing capabilities essential for success in international markets.
Students master the tools to analyse global opportunities, develop market entry strategies, and create impactful marketing campaigns across cultures.
Through real-world applications, they learn how successful organisations navigate complex international environments.
Perfect for those pursuing careers in international business, consulting, or global marketing leadership, this module develops the strategic mindset needed in today's dynamic global marketplace.
The international dimensions of business are increasingly important for firms to achieve competitive advantages in a globalised environment.
Developing suitable international business strategies involves coordinating internal activities and managing relationships with customers, suppliers, and the broader environment.
The module aims to provide MSc International Business students with a comprehensive understanding of the international business environment.
Key objectives include understanding the general environment of international business, assessing competitiveness, evaluating industry context, and developing skills for primary research and professional report writing.
A variety of assessment methods are used during this course including essays, reports, presentations, and group work.
These assessments are designed to develop the skills needed in industry.
Lincoln International Business School has an experienced team of staff, which is made up of academically and professionally qualified lecturers with relevant industrial experience and finance experts with wide research interests.
The School hosts a series of visiting speakers each year.
As part of the School, students will have the opportunity to learn from industry experts.
Previous speakers have included representatives from organisations such as Deloitte, Santander, HSBC, Innocent, The Institute of Internal Auditors and Sir David Tweedie (ex-Chairman of the IASB).
The programme is accredited by the CMI (Chartered Management Institute).
Students who pass all modules and meet Chartered Management Institute learning outcomes will qualify for a Level 7 Diploma with the CMI in Strategic Management and Leadership Practice, and Chartered Manager status: the highest status that can be achieved in the management profession.
A second class honours degree or equivalent.
Dr Suhaer Yunus syunus@lincoln.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/inttoums:
One of the largest industries in the world, global tourism sees millions of visitors crossing borders each year in search of the perfect getaway.
This course aims to equip graduates with the skills needed to work at senior levels in this growing global sector.
Lincoln's MSc International Tourism, Hospitality, and Events Management is designed in collaboration with industry to respond to the complex needs of employers, preparing students for a changing business landscape.
Important themes such as entrepreneurship, sustainability, and globalism are integral to the programme.
Traditional teaching methods are augmented by industry events and workshops, and mentoring and coaching is offered throughout the degree by experienced academics and practitioners in the field.
Students have the opportunity to take part in a field trip, usually organised in an international location, where they will have the opportunity to examine tourism related issues through hands-on experience.
All costs for the trip are covered by the University.
Undertake field trips to various locations
ATLAS membership*
Take part in industry workshops and events
Explore contemporary themes such as sustainability
Tourism Management Institute recognition
*The Association for Tourism and Leisure Education and Research
The taught element of the programme consists of eight core modules.
Students can then progress to complete the compulsory final project, which incorporates a Research Methods component and provides an opportunity to apply and develop the skills and knowledge acquired during the taught element of the programme.
Weekly contact hours on this programme may vary depending on the stage of study.
Postgraduate level study involves a significant proportion of independent study, exploring the material covered in lectures, seminars and workshops.
The Visitor Economy does not operate in isolation from its external political, economic, social, technological and environmental context – but interacts with it.
Numerous contemporary issues (e.g., political instability, global environmental crisis, human rights) shape the Visitor Economy and the Visitor Economy, in return, influences these issues.
This module seeks to analyse contemporary issues and their interrelationship with the Visitor Economy and to critically evaluate stakeholder responses to manage these issues with the aim of developing a comprehensive approach for improvement.
Thus, the module focuses strongly on the supply side of the Visitor Economy.
The module provides students with the opportunity to develop deeper critical understanding of the interrelationship between contemporary issues and the Visitor Economy.
By equipping students with critical understanding and critical management skills, the module ultimately seeks to develop students as reflective practitioners who have the capacity to transform the Visitor Economy for the better.
This module explores the role of creativity to give students the relevant academic and practical skills to enable the effective planning, organisation, and execution of a live project in tourism, events or/ and hospitality.
In the first term, students will engage with a series of interactive lectures and seminars, featuring insights from academics and external guest speakers who are industry leaders.
The focus will be on understanding the foundational theories and concepts that underpin creativity in these sectors.
The module will have a close collaboration with two university key cultural assets - Lincoln Arts Centre (LAC) and Barbican Creative Hub.
In the second term, students will apply their learning through live projects.
They will work closely with industry partners to gain hands-on experience in their selected areas.
This practical approach will allow students to develop and implement creative solutions to real-world challenges.
This module critically examines and integrates theoretical perspectives of the experiences within the context of global tourism, hospitality, and events management from demand positions.
It offers learners the prospect of developing and advancing skills and techniques essential to meet contemporary global perspectives.
The module facilitates a comprehensive understanding of consumer experiences, encompassing their foundational underpinnings, design, and effective management.
Inner Development and Global Mindset aims at crafting and sharing a strong narrative with student learners by fostering critical thinking that focuses on the significance and impact of personal inner development for sustainable outer change.
The module is mapped on the Inner Development Goals (IDGs) framework of transformative skills for sustainable development.
The IDG initiative started in Sweden as an urgent need to address the lack of progress in addressing UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
The module is delivered using a group learning approach based on the Finnish Tiimiakatemia model.
Students are team coached for the duration of the module and receive mentoring/coaching from a range of business and academic change-makers.
For many this model of self-determined learning presents a distinct challenge as it encourages a departure from traditional pedagogic delivery.
“People, Places and Communities” module aims at developing an understanding of the relationships between human behaviour, improved community wellbeing and the physical and social environment.
Tourism destinations will be examined from a management perspective, focusing on understanding how a place becomes a destination and addressing topics such as policy, development, governance, stakeholder relationships, strategy, community wellbeing, future of destinations.
A wide variety of issues will be explored with an emphasis on how to develop, manage and make places and communities better for those within them and outside.
The weekly topics will be considering the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) challenges and opportunities.
This module aims to introduce students to a range of non-traditional business models and to challenge established expectations and norms about business ethics, motivations, value-systems and practices.
The module presents the notion that enterprises can operate due to motives other than profit-maximisation and that Social Purpose Organisations can exist to fulfil social functions using business models to create an alternative basis for sustainability and development.
Students are challenged to think critically about these forms of organisation and their impact on societies (positive and negative).
Students are also challenged to consider how issues such as performance management can translate into the operations of community enterprises.
This module provides the opportunity to explore how the increasing pressures and opportunities created by new media formats and electronic communication tools are shaping marketing strategy.
The module covers themes such as social media marketing, mobile marketing, data analytics, and digital marketing campaigns.
Delivery and assessment are based on real-life case studies, preparing students for a changing business landscape.
Assessment and feedback is provided from both academics and industry representatives as per individual module specifications.
Mentoring and coaching is offered throughout the degree by experienced academics and practitioners in the field.
Students also have the option to participate in a field trip which will be delivered and assessed as part of the degree.
The course is recognised by the Tourism Management Institute (TMI), a professional organisation for anyone working in tourism destination management.
TMI’s recognition provides an assurance that a course meets a set of criteria, benchmarks, and standards aligned to the needs of the broadly-defined tourism sector.
Members include 1,400 researchers and teachers at 148 universities and research institutes, across 45 countries.
All the main costs for the trip are covered by the University, such as flights, accommodation, and entrance to attractions, although students will need some spending money while on the trip.
The programme has equipped me with essential industry knowledge while developing soft skills such as communication, leadership, and critical thinking.
Course content stays up to date with contemporary issues such as sustainability, big data, and commercialisation, and you have opportunities to apply what you learn to real-world problems.
Chi Nguyen
MSc International Tourism Management
Delivery and assessment is based on real-life case studies throughout, with the aim of preparing students for the changing business landscape.
The course aims to equip students with the practical and professional skills required in industry.
Mentoring and coaching is offered throughout the degree by experienced academics and practitioners in their fields.
Lincoln International Business School hosts a series of visiting speakers each year.
Previous speakers have included representatives from organisations such as Deloitte, Santander, HSBC, Innocent, The Institute of Internal Auditors, and Sir David Tweedie (ex-Chairman of the IASB).
The School also has links with Visit Lincoln and East Lindsay District Council, and the course is delivered in collaboration with the Association of British Travel Agents (ABTA).
Students have the chance to build their skills and knowledge further with extra-curricular activities such as joining a society, volunteering, or becoming a Student Ambassador.
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages for information on equivalent qualifications: https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/
For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page: https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/ .
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-session English and Academic Study Skills courses: https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
MSc International Tourism Management aims to prepare students for a career in a wide range of sectors, including the leisure, tourism, and events industries.
Dr Georgiana Els gels@lincoln.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/mktimsms:
MSc Marketing at the University of Lincoln gives students the opportunity to prepare themselves for a career in marketing by developing their understanding of marketing theory and acquire important skills that are necessary in today's marketing environment, such as team working, written and oral presentations, and analysis of data for strategic thinking.
The programme is taught by a team of experienced academics and practitioners, helping students to acquire and advance the knowledge that will be useful in their academic as well as business careers.
Students will have the chance to hear from guest speakers working in industry and may work on live projects provided by external businesses.
Students can also take part field trips in the UK or abroad.
Explore key marketing theories and practices
Work on live briefs with local companies
Benefit from a range of specialist modules
Complete an extended project in a specialist area
MSc Marketing aims to reflect current marketing practice and thinking within the academic discipline.
The modules on this programme have been designed to incorporate the current developments in the marketing industry through the presentation of real-world examples and case studies.
Students are expected to actively participate in lectures and seminars so that they can relate theories to practice.
Four modules are usually studied per term, equating to eight hours per week.
Hours of study may vary from term to term and can be spread throughout the week.
As a general guide, for every hour spent in class, students are expected to spend four to five hours in independent study.
Brands are ubiquitous in our current world and influence our consumption behaviour in both indirect and direct ways.
This module provides students with the opportunity to develop a critical understanding of the different elements of branding including brand value, identity, and associations.
The lectures focus on branding theory while the seminars involve case analysis with an emphasis on applying theoretical knowledge to real-life situations.
This module aims to introduce consumer learning, attitude formation and change, and the complex consumer decision making process, which are illustrated by examples from multiple sectors including retail and tourism.
Relationship marketing can be seen as the process of creating added value for organisations by managing their connections with internal and external stakeholders.
This can include customers, employees, suppliers and distributors.
Central to the module is the development of a perspective that sees an increasing role for co-creation with consumers in relationships and the effective implementation of appropriate customer experiences.
The aim of this module is to provide students with the opportunity to develop an understanding of marketing concepts applied in an international context.
The module is designed to provide students with a clear comprehension of marketing tools available and their use within an international environment, understanding the cultural diversity of their customers.
Marketing communications is the process of informing, persuading and reminding customers, intermediaries, employers, and publics of a company’s product and or services.
The module aims to define the task of communications from a managerial perspective within an international context.
The module principally focuses upon the nature of the communication process, the obstacles that are encountered in international communication and the ways in which these problems are overcome.
This module aims to introduce some critical perspectives towards marketing and potential solutions.
The module considers the role and ethics of marketing and presents an overview of the some of the pertinent ecological and social problems facing businesses and marketers today.
It aims to provide suggestions as to the positive role marketing could play in society.
A range of assessments are used in different modules, giving students the best chance to develop skills that are highly valued in business.
Among the different assessment methods used are oral presentations, assignments, and exams.
Our academics are involved in the University of Lincoln’s Marketing Research Group, which aims to enhance knowledge and offer insights for marketing and consumer studies in various local or global contexts.
Research puts an emphasis on creating and fostering sustainable values and resources for markets, consumers, and related stakeholders.
Guest lectures with industry experts are organised in different modules of the programme.
For some of the modules, students may be provided with a live brief from a local company on which they will work for their assessment.
The offer of live briefs is subject to business availability.
The course has exceeded my expectations.
Before starting, I was slightly worried that I would be playing a game of catch up because I hadn’t studied an undergraduate degree in business of any kind.
However, the tutors have been extremely supportive in guiding my learning, and I am really enjoying my time here as a student.
Emily Jackson
MSc Marketing
Graduates with Master’s level awards may progress to marketing roles in a variety of industries around the world.
Specialist skills are highly valued by private and public sector organisations, as well as beneficial to those running their own enterprises.
Some students choose to pursue careers in research or academia.
Dr Mizan Rahman mrahman@lincoln.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/mgtmgtms:
12 months
MSc Management at the University of Lincoln is designed to prepare students for a career in business and management.
The programme covers the fundamental subjects needed to manage a business successfully.
Incorporating a range of innovative learning activities to develop leadership, decision-making, and problem-solving skills, the course has been developed to meet the needs of employers.
The programme aims to prepare students for careers in middle and senior management across various sectors of employment.
Lincoln International Business School has a dedicated team of employability specialists to support students in career planning and development.
MSc Management is open to applicants from all educational backgrounds, but designed primarily for students with no previous experience of business and management studies.
The programme is also suitable for those who have proven managerial experience, which they may wish to consolidate with academic qualifications.
Undertake an independent research project or design a new enterprise
Focus on the international dimensions of business
Develop leadership skills during activity-based team challenges
Part-time study available
MSc Management brings together relevant contemporary academic theories and research with practical understanding of activities within organisations.
Teaching is informed by real-world examples and students will be expected to participate in lectures, seminars and workshops to share knowledge, relate this to theories developed from relevant research, and learn through practical application.
Students can then progress to complete the compulsory final project.
This can be related to any business and management discipline, given the broad content of the MSc Management programme.
It may take a variety of potential formats, including an independent research project, design of a new enterprise, a work-based project, or a consultancy project.
Each module typically consists of three weekly teaching hours over a teaching term.
Students will normally study four modules per term.
Please note, irrespective of whether students are full-time or part-time, their hours of study may vary from term to term and can be spread throughout the week.
Students planning to study the degree on a part-time basis, will be studying two modules per term.
As a general guide, for every hour in class, students are expected to spend three hours in independent study.
Although a proportion of the contact time will be spent in teaching, emphasis will also be placed upon the use of the student group as a resource for learning.
The style of teaching will vary to reflect individual module objectives.
The modules utilise methods of teaching and learning which are appropriate to postgraduate level study and effective collaborative learning such as debates, presentations, and report writing.
There will also be group discussions of practical situations and problems, making an extensive use of case studies in national and international contexts, simulation materials and, where relevant, students' own experiences.
Find out more about our online MSc Management programme, delivered part-time over two years.
Entrepreneurship is an essential skillset in the development of new and existing businesses, social enterprises and more broadly societies and their economies.
Enterprise is defined as the application of creative ideas and innovations to practical situations, combining creativity, ideas development and problem solving with expression, communication and practical action.
Entrepreneurship is the application of enterprise skills to creating and growing organisations in order to identify and build on opportunities, and applies to both individuals and groups (teams or organisations).
This module can give students alternative perspectives on their career options and ultimately, the confidence to set up their own business or social enterprise.
The business world never stands still; technologies and the move towards a more global economy are creating opportunities that organisations must embrace to maintain their competitive edge.
Equally, organisations now face threats that may fundamentally disrupt the nature of their business and must compete with new types of challengers to the marketplace, from any channel and anywhere in the world.
Global trends, events and innovations appear to have a greater impact on local markets than we have seen before.
In the rise of new technology, hardly any of today’s business is border bound.
Even the local organisations have to compete with international businesses because the borders of the world have become pervasive.
The monumental speed of changing market place means that traditional planning cycles must be proactive.
The International Marketing Planning module provides students with the fundamental building blocks to manage an organisation’s marketing function.
By establishing an organisation’s current market position, unpacking the value offering to consumers, and formulating a plan to meet strategic marketing objectives, the marketing planning process provides a creative framework to drive organisational success and achieve a sustained, competitive advantage in the global marketplace.
In our current globalised world, individuals in leadership and management positions within organisations across sectors are often confronted with a myriad of ‘wicked’ problems which demand for a comprehensive and cohesive strategy.
To succeed, individuals in position of responsibility must develop a range of capabilities needed to gain competitive advantage in markets and in the globe.
This module seeks to equip students with crucial knowledge and strategy making skills to perform as a strategist and contribute to responsible business strategies to give their organisation a competitive advantage.
Students who fully engage with the module will develop the knowledge and professional expertise needed for the formation, implementation and analysis of responsible business strategies; to make appropriate choices between strategic options; and then to follow a strategic route that will deliver results that are robust, ethically sound and socially responsible.
A variety of assessment methods are utilised during this course, including essays, examinations, and oral presentations.
These assessments are designed to develop skills that will be useful for your career.
Essays involve written assignments where you will be expected to structure and develop arguments based on research and critical analysis of alternative perspectives and courses of action.
Examinations aim to test and develop your ability to think on your feet and provide logical and well-formed arguments under time pressure.
Oral presentations provide you with the opportunity to demonstrate and develop communication and influencing skills that are highly valued in business and management roles.
The University of Lincoln's policy on assessment feedback aims to ensure that academics will return in-course assessments to you promptly - usually within 15 working days after the submission date.
Lincoln International Business School has an experienced team of staff, which is made up of academically and professionally qualified lecturers with relevant industrial experience and experts with wide research interests.
The School hosts a series of visiting speakers each year, enabling students to hear and learn from industry experts.
Previous speakers have included representatives from organisations such as Deloitte, Santander, HSBC, Innocent, Siemens, Lincoln City Council, and Sir David Tweedie (ex-Chairman of the IASB).
Students will also have the chance to build their skills and knowledge further with extra-curricular activities such as joining a society, volunteering, or becoming a Student Ambassador.
I already knew that the teaching standard at Lincoln was great from doing my undergraduate degree here.
I also knew that the Business School had built strong international relationships so I’d get to meet people from all over the world.
It really was a life-changing experience.
Alex Bentley
MSc Management
The programme provides a diverse range of learning and assessment situations that develop appropriate knowledge, intellectual, and practical skills, and promote opportunities for students to acquire and demonstrate transferable, interpersonal, and problem-solving skills within the broad context of management and in a multi-cultural setting.
A highlight of the programme is an activity-based team challenge event as part of the module Leadership Development, which will allow students to practice and receive feedback on their leadership skills.
An appropriate alternative experience will be provided in the event that the team challenge cannot take place.
Luke Owen, MSc Management
Having previously studied BA (Hons) Business and Management at Lincoln, Luke decided to continue his studies and further develop his knowledge and skills by progressing to MSc Management.
Since graduating, Luke successfully gained a position as a Consulting Analyst at Deloitte UK, where he has worked on several large-scale digital transformation projects.
MSc Management is designed to prepare you for a career in business and management.
Our graduates have entered high-profile organisations and exciting SMEs, including Sky, Amazon, Enterprise Rent-A-Car, DXC Technology, British Sugar, FDM Group, Sodexo, Prestige Venues & Events, and MISA JSC, one of Vietnam’s leading software companies.
Dr Kudrat Khuda
mkhuda@lincoln.ac.uk
Dr Laura McQuade
lmcquade@lincoln.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/mgtapmms:
MSc Management with Project Management has been developed to provide students with a solid understanding of the fundamental subjects needed to manage a business and projects within a complex changing environment.
Projects are ubiquitous nowadays, formalising the way in which companies organise and implement the constant improvements required to successfully operate in competitive markets and usually involving high risk and uncertainty.
Modules in finance, project planning, risk, and procurement can help to equip students with the tools, techniques, and knowledge to be able to work effectively in different contexts.
Students have the opportunity to develop their knowledge and skills in key areas such as leadership, marketing, financial analysis, and people management as well as focusing on project planning, delivering projects and programmes, and risk management.
MSc Management with Project Management is open to applicants from all educational backgrounds.
No previous experience of management studies or project management is required.
For those who have already studied a related discipline, this course offers the opportunity to progress their knowledge to an advanced level.
The programme is also suitable for those who have proven managerial experience which they wish to consolidate with academic qualifications.
Teaching informed by real-world examples
The programme brings together relevant contemporary academic theories and research with practical understanding of project management within organisations.
This will be developed by enabling students to share knowledge, relate this to theories developed from relevant research, and learning by practical application.
Through the development of an integrated and critically aware understanding of management in the context of contemporary business issues, the programme involves students in a demanding process of personal and professional development.
Our focus on the international dimensions of business and management and project management reflects the global environment in which organisations increasingly function.
This global mindset is realised in our international faculty and student community.
Our academics and students are drawn from all over the world, and bring with them unique experiences and perspectives which can enrich students' learning.
This programme can be studied full-time or part-time to meet the needs of students who are seeking to develop their career by combining academic study with their existing employment.
Students planning to study the degree on a part-time basis, will be studying two modules per term and would usually be expected to complete the programme within two years.
The programme is available for either a September or February start.
Find out more about our online MSc Management with Project Management programme, delivered part-time over two years.
The module provides you with an opportunity to develop knowledge and skills across strategic and P3 management: to articulate and execute a suitable organisational strategy and manage any change initiative to effectively deliver complex business solutions or improvements.
The key aim of this module is to deepen an understanding of strategic aspects of project management and governance within organisations and develop your ability to align change with organisational purpose and strategy.
Emphasising the significance of programme and portfolio management as well as project governance and assurance, the designed syllabus aims to enable you to prioritise and manage multiple and often interdependent projects to accomplish strategic and project objectives.
Dr Kudrat Khuda mkhuda@lincoln.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/mgthrmms:
September 2025 or January 2026
MSc Management with Human Resources provides students with the opportunity to develop their understanding of human resource management and to locate that new understanding in the dual contexts of both the wider business implications and an international perspective.
In addition, students can develop the knowledge and practical skills necessary to deal with people within the particular context of the employment relationship.
The programme provides an opportunity for both aspiring and practising HR specialists to study their subject at Master's level and to prepare them to carry out management and leadership roles successfully.
You are able develop a critical understanding of the issues relating to business, management, and HRM which can enhance your ability to maximise individual potential.
The programme introduces you to the field of leadership with the domain of human resources, and management of change, which can help you to become effective managers/HR Professionals in managing others fairly and effectively, ultimately increasing levels of engagement, motivation, commitment, and performance across the organisational workforce.
MSc Management with Human Resources is open to applicants from all educational backgrounds.
No previous experience of management studies or HR is required.
For those who have already studied a related discipline, this course offers the opportunity to progress your knowledge to an advanced level.
Progress your knowledge to an advanced level
MSc Management with Human Resources brings together relevant contemporary academic theories and research with practical understanding of HRM policies and practices within organisations.
Teaching is informed by real-world examples and students will be expected to participate in lectures, seminars, and workshops to share knowledge, relate this to theories developed from relevant research, and learn through practical application.
Through the development of an integrated and critically aware understanding of management and HR in the context of contemporary business issues, the programme involves students in a demanding process of personal and professional development.
Our focus on the international dimensions of business and management and HRM reflects the global environment in which organisations increasingly function.
As a general guide, for every hour in class, students are expected to spend three in independent study.
The cornerstone of all human resource management (HRM) activity is the employment relationship – as a legal, social, economic and psychological exchange.
This module is designed to provide students with the chance to develop a comprehensive understanding of employment relations perspectives and debates, both national and international, from a theoretical and behavioural competency perspective.
This module can help students to understand, analyse, and evaluate competing theories and perspectives associated with managing employment relations strategies and their outcomes on organisational climate, employees and management.
By utilising descriptive, predictive and prescriptive data analytics, the employment relationship can be optimised, reducing areas such as staff turnover and sickness absence through data-driven performance improvement initiatives.
The module provides opportunities to critically apply the activities, knowledge and behavioural competencies required for managing employment relations practices in union and non-union, small and large, private, public and indigenous and multinational organisations.
It aims to enable students to review and critically evaluate the roles and functions of different stakeholders in employment relations and the structures and processes required to manage the employment relationship effectively.
Human resource (HR) professionals and managers operate within an increasingly complex and changing organisational context, whether in the market, public or ‘third’ sectors, whatever the size of their organisations or the types of goods or services these enterprises produce for their customers or clients.
This module provides learners, first, with an understanding of the principal internal and external environmental contexts of contemporary organisations, including the managerial and business context, within which managers, HR professionals and workers interact in conditions of environmental turbulence, change and uncertainty.
Secondly, the module examines how those leading organisations respond to these dynamic environmental contexts.
The module also indicates how leaders in organisations, those in the HR function, and line managers with HR responsibilities need to recognise and acknowledge that corporate decisions and HR choices are not always shaped by managers alone.
They are also shaped by internal and external forces beyond their immediate control.
By having a data-driven approach to people problems, the decision-making process becomes evidence-based, and predictions are less of a risk in terms of strategy.
Having studied this module, learners will be aware that managers and HR professionals in different types of organisation (small, large, national, global), in responding to their internal, business and external environmental contexts, not only have opportunities and choices when taking organisational and HR decisions but also face constraints on their autonomy in determining their futures.
This module explores the implications for professional practice and provides opportunities for applied learning and continuous professional development.
Dr Laura McQuade lmcquade@lincoln.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/mbalftmb:
The Lincoln International Business School MBA programme is based on the core values of sustainability and responsible management.
Our programme aims to provide the knowledge, perspective, and critical understanding that managers and professionals may need to succeed in a rapidly changing world.
The programme is designed to suit managers and professionals from across business, government, and civil society, and may appeal to those who not only want to achieve success for themselves and their organisations, but also have a passion for making the world a better place.
The curriculum addresses real-world challenges, such as the transition to a zero-carbon economy and technological changes like Industry 4.0, and provides a creative environment for generating new knowledge and practical solutions.
Students can benefit from research-active academics who are able to enrich the programme with the latest thinking around the current issues and challenges faced by organisational decision-makers.
Global recognition and accreditation – accredited by the CMI (Level 7)
Designed with input from industry leaders to ensure graduates are job-ready
Membership of LIBS Connect for business networking
Taught by leading academics and professionals with real-world experience
Includes AI-driven learning, flipped classrooms, and problem-based learning.
The Lincoln International Business School MBA programme aims to connect classroom learning with the real world challenges faced by managers and organisations.
The content of the programme is designed to build the skills every global manager needs, whilst individual projects and the dissertation provide an opportunity to specialise.
Lectures and seminars are designed to enable interaction and dialogue and offer the chance to discuss the fundamentals of global business and leadership.
There is flexibility in the scheduling of our timetable that allows class activities, as well as group and independent study.
MBA study involves a significant proportion of independent study, exploring the material covered in lectures and seminars.
As a general guide, for every hour in class students are expected to spend two to three hours in independent study.
Taught modules normally have 36 contact hours (lectures, seminars and workshops) per term.
This module equips students with the skills and knowledge to thrive as entrepreneurial leaders in dynamic, global environments.
This module integrates theoretical frameworks and practical approaches to entrepreneurship, intrapreneurship, and innovation, enabling students to critically evaluate strategic opportunities and drive sustainable growth.
Students will explore the principles of entrepreneurial practice and entrepreneurial leadership within diverse organisational contexts, examining how innovation creates competitive advantage.
The module highlights the strategic alignment of entrepreneurship with organisational goals, emphasising ethical considerations, sustainability, and responsible leadership.
Topics include entrepreneurial thinking and mindset, ecosystems, business model design, intrapreneurial structures, innovation, business case development, ensuring students can lead innovation effectively.
By the end of this module, students will have mastered critical tools for fostering entrepreneurial thinking, aligning innovation strategies with organisational objectives, and navigating the complexities of modern business environments, positioning them for impactful leadership in their careers.
This module is designed to provide students with an understanding of the key principles of financial management and how to apply and critically evaluate those principles for strategic decision-making purposes.
Managerial Finance covers a wide range of topics on financial decision-making, focusing on investment decisions, financial planning, capital structure, cost of capital, and the application of management accounting principles.
The understanding of these elements is critical for business managers who must make informed decisions in the context of real-world application.
The module begins by introducing the importance of financial statements and developing understanding of the key information presented within the financial statements.
The students will then analyse that financial information contained within the financial statements for decision-making purposes by applying financial analytics tools such as ratios, common size, horizontal and vertical financial analysis.
As part of the management roles, managers are required to make key investment and financing decisions that impacts long-term sustainability of the business and the shareholder’s wealth.
The module will then build key analytical skills within students that will help them in applying investment appraisal techniques to evaluate long-term investment decisions.
Similarly, students will learn about the different sources of finance that companies can employ to fulfil their financing needs in addition to evaluating the cost of raising those funds.
Finally, students will learn the application of management accounting tools that aid managers and businesses for planning business activities, controlling costs and measuring performance, and for decision-making purposes.
For that matter, the students will explore the application of pricing decisions, cost management, and perform cost-volume-profit analysis.
The module emphasizes the practical application of financial theories and tools, helping students bridge the gap between theoretical knowledge and real-world decision-making.
Throughout the module, students will be challenged to think critically about how financial decisions influence business strategy, and how managers can use financial analysis to drive business success.
This course not only focuses on the core technical aspects of finance but also highlights the importance of aligning financial decisions with broader corporate strategies and stakeholder interests.
The module will necessitate the use of Bloomberg terminal as a compulsory element of the module which will help achieve the Skills for Life outcome of Creativity – Digital & Data Literacy.
People and their interactions are at the heart of leadership and management in organisational life.
Recognising and incorporating a range of factors into management practice, from personal traits to dynamic organisational environments, is essential for achieving combined positive organisational and individual outcomes.
This module aims to develop insights across these areas by working with students to explore and reflect on their experiences of work and cultures.
Their knowledge of organisational theory will be developed and used to reflect on the past, applied to present cases and inform future evidence-based approaches.
It is designed to complement and balance other programme modules by providing the opportunity for students to explore behavioural aspects of managing people, and themselves, in organisational life.
Graduates of this course will confidently apply evidence-based approaches for positive impact on their people and organisations.
The module will delve into both macro and micro organisational factors, examining how larger systemic issues, individual factors and team dynamics influence management practices.
A practical focus on managing people will be emphasised, highlighting the importance of development and leadership in optimising performance.
This module aims to produce enhanced understanding which will nurture lateral thinking, problem solving and reflective practice.
Additionally, the module will highlight and discuss the significance of self-awareness and well-being, ensuring that managers are equipped to foster a healthy and productive work environment.
This module aims to inform the critical decisions that need to be taken by business leaders when taking their organisation’s products and services to market, because such decisions directly impact on profitability and shareholder value.
The module introduces marketing management to students whose previous studies and current occupations may be very diverse and emphasises the need for a critical and analytical perspective.
Students will be introduced to analytical tools, customer behaviour theory and international marketing factors.
Negotiations are an essential and fundamental moment in the life of individuals, organisations, institutions, and firms.
The module will typically examine the links among negotiation fundamentals, negotiation sub-processes and negotiation contexts.
The module will support students in developing their negotiation skills through a review of theories, models and practical exercises.
This module is designed to augment and to support the challenges of strategic management by encouraging and enabling students to develop the intellectual and professional acumen needed for the conception and analysis of responsible business strategies; to make appropriate choices between strategic options, and then to follow a strategic trajectory that will deliver results that are robust, ethically sound and socially responsible.
A range of illustrative strategic issues, generally recognised as fundamental to organisational success are used to identify and explore the tensions and paradoxes of organisational life.
The developing debate demonstrates that often opposing perspectives can give valid, but only partial, contributions to understanding key strategic issues.
To best assist the effective management of contemporary organisations, the ability to set direction in a turbulent environment needs to developed by seeking set of options that are most appropriate to the organisational context being considered
It is evident that to be successful in the global environment future organisations will need to be both viable in a commercial sense and at the same time either demonstrate a responsible attitude towards wider society that encompasses the full community of stakeholders or be subject to ever more restrictive regulation.
Accordingly, to meet this requirement while avoiding stricter regulation, there is a need for senior managers and those who aspire to that status to have a longer term and more responsible view of the business enterprise rather than simply aiming for short-term profit maximisation.
This course provides you with the opportunity to develop an understanding of a specific topic in lectures and seminars before presenting your findings and opinions on given questions at the end of each module.
All taught modules will be assessed through a variety of assessment methods, including essays, examinations, projects, oral presentations and simulation games.
These assessments are designed to develop skills that can be useful for your career.
For the MBA Dissertation, students will have the opportunity to produce a research-focused dissertation of 15,000 words.
Academics from our MBA are involved in the Lincoln International Business School’s Responsible Management Research Group, which undertakes research which contributes new knowledge so that business, as a primary driver of globalisation, can help ensure that management, businesses, markets, commerce, technology, and finance advance in ways that benefit economies and societies everywhere.
Through membership of LIBS Connect, students will be able to attend guest lectures from industry speakers and leaders.
Previous guest speakers have included University Chancellor Lord Adebowale CBE, BBC Trustee and Non-Executive Director Suzanna Taverne, and the Chief Executive of Siemens pcl Juergen Maier.
Several of our staff members, such as Prof.
Andrea Caputo , Dr.
Mohammad Fakhar Manesh , Dr.
Wajdi Ben Rejeb , and Dr.
Jialin Hardwick , are engaged in cutting-edge research and have strong ties to both academic and industry projects.
You can find more details about their academic contributions and research interests through their linked Google Scholar profiles.
A minimum 2:2 honours degree and at least 2 years of work experience.
In addition, students whose first language is not English are required to have an English Language qualification of IELTS 6.0 or equivalent.
This course aims to develop essential managerial skills with entrepreneurial value, critical in becoming a successful leader in the modern business world.
Students have the opportunity to access a large business network through a variety of activities.
LIBS Connect membership provides students with access to a series of business networking events, where they can engage with the local business community.
For more information about this course, please contact the Programme Leaders.
Dr Wajdi Ben Rejeb WBenRejeb@lincoln.ac.uk
Dr Mohammad Fakhar Manesh MFakharManesh@lincoln.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/promanms:
Today's global businesses list project management skills as one of the most desirable when hiring new talent.
Projects are now ubiquitous for businesses.
They formalise the way in which organisations implement the constant improvements required to successfully operate in competitive markets and usually involve high risk and uncertainty.
Our MSc Project Management responds to this by providing an opportunity to engage with fundamental theories and best practices in a systematic, critical, and creative way.
This course has been developed for both recent graduates and those seeking a change in their career path.
It is therefore not restricted to students with a business-related background.
Irrespective of current levels of project management knowledge or experience, students on this programme have the opportunity to gain the confidence needed to plan complex projects, lead and inspire teams, manage difficult stakeholders, and cope with the most unpleasant or unexpected risks.
They are able to develop practical skills relating to design, planning, and execution of projects, in addition to conflict resolution and effective multi-functional project integration.
Engage with fundamental theories and best practices
Graduates have worked at Sky, Accenture, and BAE Systems
Learn to design, plan, and execute projects
The comprehensive and intellectually challenging curriculum is informed by professional best practice and is designed to meet the expectations of contemporary global organisations.
The curriculum covers a range of project and programme management theory, including effective methods of project initiation, planning, execution, and close-out.
The overall aim is to optimally balance the acquisition of both hard and soft skills.
The programme consists of eight core modules and concludes with a dissertation, which encourages innovation and diverse pathways to the final assessed product.
Students may also have the opportunity to work the whole semester on a real-life project as part of the Teams and Leadership module.
Previous projects included working with Network Rail, Lincoln City Council, Doddington Hall, local libraries, churches, and cultural.
There may also be opportunities to participate in research projects conducted by academic staff.
Recent topics have included Project Leadership, Self-organising Teams, Project Success, PM Methodologies, PMOs, Governance, Risk Management, Irrationality, and Quality
Methods of delivery include lectures, seminars, workshops, IT lab sessions, and external visits.
A number of innovative teaching approaches are also used such as flipped classroom, challenges, simulations, and role plays.
Each module typically consists of two  weekly teaching hours over a teaching term.
Hours of study can vary from term to term for both full and part-time students and the University aims to timetable all PGT contact hours into two days for full time students.
As a general guide, for every hour spent in class, students are expected to spend at least three to four hours in independent study.
In this module you can deepen your understanding of traditional project management tools and techniques by critiquing their assumptions and proposing a number of alternative philosophies, emerging and experimental methodologies, and more adaptive methods to better account for the apparent dynamics, complexity, uncertainty, and variability of the project environment.
The material in the module encompasses global best practices from major professional bodies, such as: Agile Alliance, PMI, APM, GPM, IASSC.
However, the established, Westernised project management conventions are also juxtaposed in the module with a diverse methodological knowledge base from around the world and their empirical lessons.
In this module you can explore the intersection of business analysis and technology transformation, focusing in particular on how organisations can leverage IT to create value to their customers and achieve business success.
You'll be able to learn by concocting digital transformation strategies and by experimenting with the key digital capabilities.
The main topics addressing the technology aspect include: enterprise architecture, data management, IT strategy, and Industry 4.0 technologies.
You can learn to analyse and improve business processes, plan IT-empowered business change, and implement innovative solutions through authentic practical exercises and case studies.
Covering areas as diverse as data warehousing, business intelligence, ERP systems, and business process re-engineering, the module equips students with the skills to propose, evaluate, and implement technological solutions.
Students may have the opportunity to participate in the PM4.0 Innovation Challenge.
Run in collaboration with industry partners, students tackle real-life problems with creative and innovative thinking related to the use of Industry 4.0 technologies.
A variety of assessment methods are used during this course including reports, tests, oral presentations, portfolios, and practical projects.
These assessments are designed to develop the skills needed for a career in business.
There is a focus on action learning as well as immediate practical application of any learned skill or technique, which helps students to critically appraise various solutions to a real-life problem and make a robust managerial decision.
From conventional theories of project management to present day and experimental approaches, a wide and informative overview was presented in the programme in a way that inspires confidence and prepares you for entering the workplace as a project professional.
David Lawrence-Ayres
MSc Project Management graduate
Students on this programme can benefit from working alongside an experienced team of staff consisting of academically and professionally qualified lecturers with relevant industrial experience and wide-ranging research interests.
The programme has links with project management teams (PMOs) in the University’s Estates and ICT departments.
It also invites practising project managers and consultants as guest speakers and career advisors from the Association for Project Management, BBC, Export Development Canada, BAE Systems, Jacobs, and Siemens.
Students can also participate in real-life projects within local, project-based organisations.
There may also be opportunities to explore research areas such as project leadership, self-organising teams, project success, governance, and risk management.
Lower second class honours (2:2) degree or equivalent professional experience in project management.
Although specific responsibilities will vary dependent on an industry, the role of a project manager always requires the same practical skills to deal with design, planning, and execution, while being able to resolve conflicts and integrate across a range of functional areas.
Previous graduates from MSc Project Management have taken up roles at BAE Systems, Accenture, Nottingham Trent University, Network Rail, Sky, Mace, Nuclear AMRC, Defence and Security Accelerator, and ESL.
Dr Artem Khudenko akhudenko@lincoln.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/loggloms:
2 years (available to September 2025 intake only)
World events such as the Covid-19 Pandemic  and Ukraine War serve to highlight the significant impact that supply chain and logistics management can have on businesses.
With recognised issues in supply chains and logistics, including the generation of harmful emissions, human rights and employment abuses, and criminality, the need for smart, innovative, and responsible management is of huge importance.
The MSc in Supply Chain and Logistics Management has been designed with these issues in mind and allows graduates to develop the ability to tackle them, along with other issues associated with the sector, in a contemporary setting.
The course gives students the opportunity to explore practice in the context of relevant contemporary theory and research in the field of Supply Chain and Logistics Management from an international perspective, and develops their strategic vision, focusing on creative thinking and practical management.
The programme recognises that all organisations, local and global, are constantly changing and seeks to ensure that managers develop the necessary knowledge and competencies to cope with this.
Lectures, seminars, case studies, and guest speakers aim to provide students with a rich and thorough understanding of the subject, and the confidence to apply their subject knowledge to add value to the global business arena as they approach careers in management or consultancy.
Accredited by Supply Chain, Logistics and Environment, and Sustainability Ins
Explore contemporary theory and practice
Gain real-world experience during company visits
Challenge-based assignments based on real world problems
MSc Supply Chain and Logistics Management can be studied full-time (September and February takes) or part-time (available to September intake only).
The programme combines generic modules in business and management with more specialist modules in logistics, operations, and procurement and supply chain management.
The generic modules are designed to provide students with the opportunity to develop an understanding of how people, and other resources are managed in organisations.
Students are introduced to strategy and decision analysis as well as to approaches to address the challenges associated with successful project management.
The specialist modules aim to provide the knowledge and techniques to analyse, appraise, and contribute to the design and management of successful logistical and global operations.
Find out more about our online MSc Management with Supply Chain programme, delivered part-time over two years.
Meet Yann, a former student who, following his studies, completed several missions in Jordan, Congo, Mozambique with a French Humanitarian Organisation and now works in the Operations Team at ACLED.
This module is designed to introduce students to a wide range of Logistics and Operations Strategies and to a number of Digital Information Systems topics that make significant contributions to the understanding of organisations as systems seeking to remain viable and competitive within their environment.
It is designed to respond to the core Quality Assurance Agency (QAA), Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply (CIPS)  and Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport (CILT) benchmarks and accreditation criteria that concern themselves with the associated topics and challenges surrounding the successful management of logistics and operations.
The central theme is the alignment of processes and systems concerned with the delivery of the organisation’s overall strategy and meeting related operational objectives in both service and manufacturing environments.
In order to ensure organisational success, we must seek to manage relationships with upstream and downstream suppliers and customers to deliver increased customer value at less cost to the supply chain overall.
It is often argued that an organisation is only as a good as its supply chain and that the global supply chain can be a key source of competitive advantage.
In the age of globalisation, many organisations are only as good as their global supply chains.
Global supply chains give the organisation access to strategic resources and enable them to compete in global markets.
Procurement and Supply Chain Management as a discipline has changed considerably in many companies and organisations in the recent past.
Considering the amount of money generally involved in the preparation and execution of procurement and supply decisions, this is not a surprise and it has been argued that an effective and efficient operating purchasing and supply function can make an important contribution to company results and also add significant value.
Traditionally, the procurement department has acted as the intermediary which negotiates the agreements and contracts with suppliers and subsequently monitors their compliance to those agreements.
However, this ‘traditional’ role is changing rapidly and procurement and supply chain managers are assuming more strategic roles within organisations, focused on achieving better performance from suppliers though approaches such as more active management of supplier relationships.
In keeping with the spirit of LIBS Masters programme, this module seeks to enable and facilitate innovation and creativity in terms of project focus, form and output as well as presenting a clear opportunity for students to develop and nurture key transferable business skills such as team working and leadership effectiveness, respecting individual and cultural diversity, professional communication in a range of complex contexts and reflecting on their own knowledge and understanding, prioritising self-development in new high-level skills.
To achieve this, students will be expected to address a given business topic as a team, with each individual student undertaking a given managerial role.
Although in a team, students will take responsibility for their own learning as they negotiate the form and output of final portfolio elements with an allocated academic supervisor who will act as the Project Sponsor.
Individual Reflective Logs will be a key supporting element which will be agreed between students and supervisor, thereby ensuring mutuality of intent, process, practice and format of final submissions and overall assessment.
Strategy is the heart of every organisation.
This module explores how strategy is conceived, how it affects the organisation and how the organisation can be designed to realise its strategy efficiently and effectively.
The module aims to support students in developing their strategic thinking skills through a review of diverse theories, models and practical exercises.
The Supply Chain is a process concerned with the planning, implementation and control of the effective, cost-efficient flow and storage of goods and materials as well as related information, from the point of origin to the point of consumption for the purpose of meeting the end beneﬁciary’s requirements.
The Humanitarian Supply Chain will typically involve military, governmental and private organisations of various sizes, motivations and abilities.
Supply chain activities are approximated to account for as much as 60-80% of the total cost of the humanitarian response.
Therefore, efficient and effective humanitarian supply chain management is vital from an economic standpoint, in addition to the moral imperative that is underlying humanitarian operations.
Both academic and professional interest in humanitarian supply chains has grown significantly in recent years.
Moreover, recent thinking in this area has also focussed on ethical and environmental aspects of the supply chain, tied strongly to a number of the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals.
A variety of assessment methods are utilised during this course, including essays and oral presentations as well as group work.
Group work helps you to develop key skill sets for success in the workplace.
Topics for these assignments are informed by current topical research and practical supply chain and logistics challenges, as faced by the teaching team and student body.
Key features include a module based on a Challenge Based Learning strategy (Digital Logistics and Operations Strategy), with students addressing a real-life strategic, practical challenge given to them by local industry, and the final module, Portfolio Based Supply Chain and Logistics Project, which sees students complete a team-based piece of work, underpinned by personal reflection, again linked to the practical business world.
This course has been accredited by the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport (CILT), the Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply (CIPS), and the Institute of Environment Management and Assessment (IEMA).
Dr Gary Ramsden, Dr Syed Tariq, Dr Samuel Afranie, and Mr Chaz McKnight pride themselves on their professional practical experience, offering many years of knowledge and expertise in the defence, communication and humanitarian sectors.
Sustainability is high on their agenda, as is the application of new, disruptive technology.
Above all, they aim to make their course material interactive and fun as they adopt a student-focused approach to learning.
The University of Lincoln is the recognised preferred provider for academic development opportunities in logistics and operations for the UK Ministry of Defence.
It offers defence programmes in logistics and operations at degree, masters, and PhD research levels.
The recent COVID-19 pandemic has seen academic experts at the University make a telling contribution to the response effort across all elements of the logistics and supply chain discipline.
Students on this programme can benefit from working alongside an experienced team of staff consisting of academically and professionally qualified lecturers with relevant industrial experience.
They are able to engage in real-world projects and attend guest lectures from visiting speakers drawn from across a wide cross section of business sectors and industrial expertise.
During the programme, you may have the opportunity to visit a company to get a better understanding of how logistics operates in practice.
Students have previously visited a Caterpillar Site in Leicester.
All costs related to this trip are covered by the School.
Throughout the course, students will have the opportunity to interact with industry speakers working on a variety of supply chain and logistics problems.
Past speakers include the Associate Director of Customer Logistics at Coca-Cola Europacific Partners, the Head of Teaching and Learning at The Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply (CIPS), and a Senior Civil Servant and Commercial Specialist at the Complex Transactions Team within the UK Government Cabinet Office.
Second class honours degree or equivalent.
(Professional experience will also be considered.
Please contact the programme leader for further information).
This programme is designed to prepare students for a number of careers in operations management, logistics, distribution, transport, retail, consultancy, and other related areas.
Former students have been hired by UK organisations such as Bombardier, Jaguar Land Rover, and RB.
Chaz Mcknight cmcknight@lincoln.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/hcsci:
The University of Lincoln offers a wide range of health science and care programmes which can provide options to students who wish to make a difference in these areas.
Our School Health and Care Sciences brings many of these areas together, including nursing, pharmacy, and social care.
Explore our subject hub to find out more about Health and Care Sciences at Lincoln.
Our Health and Wellbeing Hub offers post-registration programmes and continuing professional development for qualified practitioners working across the health and social care sector.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/nurnurms:
January 2026
The MSc Nursing (Pre-registration - Adult) course aims to prepare graduates for the complex, demanding, and rewarding area of adult nursing.
The course provides those from a range of backgrounds with the opportunity to transfer their skills to become a registered nurse (adult).
This Master's is for graduates of a degree who aspire to qualify for eligibility to apply to the Nursing and Midwifery Council Register.
The course is underpinned by the core values of the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) and aims to promotes critical thinking skills and the spirit of inquiry.
Over the past few decades the role of the nurse has developed due to the changing context of health and social care, resulting in a wide range of new roles and services.
Registered nurses (adult) hold a significant role in terms of leading and coordinating care provision for people across the lifespan; aware of complex mental, physical, cognitive and behavioural care needs of those they look after.
This Master's degree aims to develop registered nurses (adult) who prioritise people by providing safe and effective care, educating those in their care through the use of technology, promoting health literacy to prevent ill health, and supporting healthy choices and lifestyles.
The course has been developed to raise the professional values and social conscience of students to prepare them for future healthcare roles.
Nurses translate evidence-based knowledge to improve healthcare delivery while maintaining and emphasising the ethics of person centred care.
Modules on this course have been designed with this in mind and aim to stimulate innovation, improve quality, manage risk, and identify areas for productive change.
The University of Lincoln, together with our practice partners, share a vision to prepare students to become dynamic nurses that are fit for practice in rapidly changing and challenging care environments.
Delivered by experienced practitioners
Modern clinical suites to apply theory
Placements in a range of settings
Study abroad opportunities
Collaboration is a key part of this Master's degree and students are encouraged to learn with and from other healthcare professionals.
Students will be able to apply their taught learning experiences in real-world settings as the programme is structured through fifty per cent theory and fifty per cent practice.
Students can work in collaboration and partnership with academics, practitioners, service users, and other students.
The course aims to empower students to become nurses that are resilient, caring, reflective, and lifelong learners to facilitate knowledge of other roles and services, inter-agency cooperation, and the confidence to work across professional boundaries.
Research-engaged and evidence-based learning and teaching is at the core of the student learning experience on this course.
Student as Producer is a model of teaching and learning that encourages academics and undergraduate students to collaborate on research activities.
It is a programme committed to learning through doing.
The principles of Student as Producer are discovery, collaboration, engagement, and production.
Students can learn through their own research.
Independent learning is promoted on each module through both directed and self-directed study, enabling students to contextualise the taught content to their field of practice and promoting independent study as a process students can use throughout their professional career.
Interprofessional working is an important part of the course.
Students can work together to develop their knowledge and understanding and students can collaborate amongst professional peer groups and staff.
Students are seen as partners in the production and dissemination of knowledge.
Students can develop their confidence and identity as a member of a professional community.
Students can transfer and apply their learning to nursing practice, fully engaging with reflection, and the proactive identification of their own learning needs.
The course focuses on the production of professionally relevant and innovative learning outputs that can be applied and implemented within nursing practice, as well as focusing on the achievement of academic learning outcomes.
By the end of the programme students must be able to demonstrate competence against the Future nurse: Standards of proficiency for registered nurses.
These include being an accountable professional, Promoting health and preventing ill health, assessing needs and planning care, providing and evaluating care, leading and managing nursing care and working in teams, improving safety and quality of care and, coordinating care.
In the second year, you may have the opportunity to undertake an elective placement either overseas or in the UK.
Placements can enable you to focus on an alternative healthcare context and offer the opportunity to gain an insight into, and experience of, working alongside colleagues from a range of disciplines.
You are responsible for your own travel, accommodation, and general living costs while studying abroad.
Lead with Confidence, Integrity, and Accountability
As the final module of your MSc Nursing programme, Accountable Nursing Leadership is designed to equip you with the knowledge, skills, and confidence to lead effectively in a variety of complex healthcare environments.
This blended-field module focuses on professional accountability, ethical decision-making, and leadership strategies that drive high-quality, safe, and person-centred care.
What to Expect in This Module
Professional Standards and Governance – Understand legal, regulatory, and governance requirements, along with ethical frameworks that guide nursing leadership.
Upholding Ethical and Transparent Practice – Apply principles of courage, transparency, and professional duty of candour in leadership roles.
Challenging Discriminatory Behaviour – Develop strategies to identify, challenge, and address discrimination in healthcare settings.
Leadership and Organisational Dynamics – Enhance your leadership and management skills while understanding group dynamics, organisational culture, and human factors.
Strength-Based Approaches in Leadership – Leverage environmental and human factors to create a supportive and high-performing workplace.
Performance Management and Constructive Feedback – Learn to manage team performance effectively through structured appraisals and reflective practice.
Safe Staffing and Quality of Care – Ensure appropriate skills mix, safe staffing levels, and optimal care quality in nursing teams.
As part of this module, you will also complete your SSSA training, to be ready to supervise students in practice once registered.
Driving Improvements in Healthcare – Utilise improvement methodologies, audit activities, and business case development to enhance patient care.
Managing Critical Incidents and Near Misses – Learn how to lead a response to major incidents, serious adverse events, and critical situations with professionalism and composure.
Conflict Resolution and Professional Relationships – Develop skills to manage workplace conflicts and foster a collaborative and supportive working environment.
How This Module Supports Your Development This module prepares you to take on leadership roles in nursing with confidence and accountability.
You will refine your ability to manage teams, drive quality improvements, and uphold ethical and professional standards in a rapidly evolving healthcare landscape.
This blended-field module marks the culmination of your MSc Nursing journey, empowering you to step into leadership with the expertise and integrity needed to make a lasting impact in healthcare.
Develop Expertise in Managing Complex Patient Needs
As part of your MSc Nursing programme, the Coordinating Complex Adult Care module is designed to enhance your ability to assess, plan, and manage care for individuals with multifaceted health needs.
This field-specific module provides you with the advancing knowledge and clinical skills required to deliver high-quality, person-centred care in complex and dynamic healthcare environments.
Resilience and Emotional Intelligence – Develop the ability to navigate challenging situations with confidence and emotional awareness.
Decision-Making in Complex Situations – Understand the influences on judgments and decisions in routine, complex, and high-pressure scenarios.
Supporting Vulnerable Populations – Provide compassionate care to individuals at all stages of life who are emotionally or physically vulnerable.
Interpreting Clinical Investigations – Learn to assess and interpret results from routine tests and examinations.
Managing Co-Morbidities and Complex Needs – Address the demands of meeting both nursing and social care needs in complex cases.
Effective Multi-Disciplinary Collaboration – Recognise when and how to refer individuals to other professionals or services for additional support.
Advanced Pharmacology Knowledge – Develop the ability to identify medication effects, allergies, drug sensitivities, side effects, contraindications, adverse reactions, and prescribing errors.
Safe Transition of Care – Ensure effective discharge planning and the safe transfer of individuals between care settings.
Leadership and Delegation – Prioritise, delegate, and assign care responsibilities effectively in dynamic healthcare environments.
Person-Centred Nursing in Integrated Care Settings – Address the complexities of providing safe, effective, and person-centred care across integrated healthcare settings.
Evaluating the Quality of Care – Monitor and assess the effectiveness and quality of complex care services.
Promoting Independence and Minimising Unnecessary Interventions – Enable individuals to maintain optimal independence while reducing unnecessary medical interventions.
Ensuring Equitable Access to Healthcare – Advocate for fair and accessible healthcare services for all patients.
Risk Management and Quality Improvement – Identify risks and implement proactive measures to improve care quality and patient safety.
How This Module Supports Your Development By completing this module, you will refine your ability to coordinate care for individuals with complex health needs, ensuring safe, effective, and compassionate adult nursing practice.
You will develop the expertise to act as a role model for others and respond proactively to signs of deterioration or distress.
This field-specific module is a crucial component of your MSc Nursing journey, equipping you with the skills and knowledge to lead and innovate in complex care coordination.
Welcome to Your First Step Towards Nursing Excellence
As part of your MSc Nursing programme, the Essential Nursing Practice module is designed to provide you with the essential knowledge and skills required for high-quality, person-centred care.
This blended-field module will build on your clinical, professional, and technological experiences, preparing you for nursing practice in a variety of healthcare settings.
Innovative Learning Approach – Engage with a combination of lectures, seminars, and clinical skills training, both face-to-face and through cutting-edge digital platforms.
Comprehensive Skill Development – Enhance your numeracy, literacy, digital, and technological proficiency, all crucial for contemporary nursing practice.
Person-Centred Care Focus – Develop your ability to communicate effectively across all age groups and support patients through shared decision-making and compassionate care.
Robust Clinical Training – Gain hands-on experience in essential procedures, including clinical observations, sample collection, wound care, mobility support, infection prevention, and medicines management.
Ethical and Legal Considerations – Build confidence in risk assessments, safeguarding protocols, health and safety legislation, and supporting patients with mental capacity considerations.
Holistic Wellbeing Approach – Learn to promote good sleep, nutrition, hydration, personal hygiene, oral care, and self-care while upholding patient dignity and privacy.
Medicines Administration Training – Gain an introduction to safe and effective medication management, including enteral and parenteral routes.
How This Module Supports Your Development By completing this module, you will develop the critical skills needed to provide evidence-based, high-quality care.
The combination of theoretical knowledge and practical training will prepare you for the challenges of modern nursing, enabling you to start delivering safe and effective interventions with increasing confidence.
Preparing for Success To get the most out of this module, engage actively in all learning activities, make use of digital resources, and apply your learning in clinical practice.
This is an essential step in your MSc Nursing journey, helping you to advance your professional development and enhance patient outcomes.
Welcome to Your Next Step in Nursing Excellence
As part of your MSc Nursing programme, the Nursing for Adult Health module is designed to equip you with the knowledge and clinical skills necessary to provide high-quality, evidence-based care for adults across diverse healthcare settings.
This field-specific module will enhance your understanding of human health, illness, and the complexities of professional nursing practice.
Professional Readiness – Understand the demands of professional practice, build resilience, and develop strategies to manage uncertainty in healthcare environments.
Recognising and Responding to Vulnerability – Identify signs of vulnerability, assess risks to health, and implement strength-based approaches to empower individuals.
Comprehensive Health Assessment – Conduct person-centred nursing assessments, develop appropriate care plans, and monitor their effectiveness.
Applied Biosciences and Pharmacology – Gain a solid foundation in human anatomy, physiology, homeostasis, genomics, and pharmacology to inform your nursing interventions.
Mental and Physical Health Awareness – Recognise and support individuals with commonly encountered mental, physical, behavioural, and cognitive conditions, including self-harm and suicidal ideation.
Clinical Skills – Perform venepuncture, cannulation, chest auscultation, neurological observations, and routine ECG investigations, interpreting normal and commonly encountered abnormal results.
Understanding Increasingly Complex Conditions – Understand the causes, implications, and treatment of a range of common health conditions, including sepsis, and effectively manage commonly encountered medical devices.
Holistic and Therapeutic Interventions – Utilise solution-focused therapies, reminiscence therapies, cognitive behavioural therapy techniques, play therapy, and positive behaviour support approaches.
Effective Communication and Collaboration – Work in partnership with patients, families, and carers to support informed decision-making and provide clear, verbal, digital, or written information.
Pain and Symptom Management – Minimise discomfort through evidence-based interventions, including oxygen administration, catheter management, and continence product support.
How This Module Supports Your Development This module will strengthen your ability to assess, plan, implement, and evaluate nursing care in a range of clinical settings.
Through interactive learning and practical application, you will develop the skills needed to provide safe, effective, and person-centred care for adults with diverse health needs.
This field-specific module is an essential step in your MSc Nursing journey, preparing you to lead and innovate in adult nursing, and supporting your development as a skilled and compassionate nurse.
Transforming Nursing Through Global Perspectives
The Nursing in a Global Context module equips you with the knowledge and skills to critically examine nursing from a global perspective.
With a strong emphasis on decolonisation and inter-professional learning, this blended-field module challenges existing healthcare structures and promotes culturally competent, inclusive, and equitable care across diverse populations.
Promoting Health and Preventing Illness – Explore approaches to healthy lifestyles, health promotion, protection, and improvement, with an emphasis on preventing ill health.
Understanding Global Health Disparities – Examine epidemiology, demography, genomics, and the wider determinants of health, illness, and wellbeing.
Addressing Health Inequalities – Critically assess global patterns in health and wellbeing outcomes, considering the social, economic, and political factors that drive health disparities.
Behavioural and Social Influences on Health – Investigate the impact of smoking, substance and alcohol use, sexual behaviours, diet, and exercise on physical, mental, and behavioural health.
Evidence-Based Public Health Interventions – Analyse the principles and effectiveness of health screening programmes, immunisation, infection prevention and control, and antimicrobial stewardship.
Decolonisation in Nursing – Engage in critical discussions on the legacy of colonialism in healthcare and nursing, exploring strategies to decolonise education, practice, and policy.
Inter-Professional Learning and Collaboration – Develop skills to work effectively in partnership, across professions, and with agencies to improve patient outcomes and public health.
Health Legislation and Policy – Gain insight into UK health and social care policies, devolved legislatures, health economics, and the impact of current and future policy developments.
Unconscious Bias and Social Determinants of Health – Reflect on the role of unconscious bias in healthcare delivery and strategies to mitigate its effects.
Organisational Change and Political Awareness – Understand the role of nurses in shaping public policy, driving organisational change, and advocating for equitable health services.
How This Module Supports Your Development This module challenges you to think critically about the structures and policies that shape nursing and healthcare on a global scale.
Through inter-professional learning and an emphasis on decolonisation, you will develop the skills needed to lead inclusive and culturally competent nursing practices.
This blended-field module is an opportunity to expand your perspective, refine your critical thinking, and contribute to meaningful change in nursing and global healthcare.
You are able to attend a placement where you will be a supernumerary member of the team.
Your allocated practice placement during Part 2 will allow you to observe, participate, and assist in the provision of evidence-based care.
By the end of your Part 2 placement, you should be able to demonstrate a minimum level of skills, knowledge, and behaviours, described as: Active participation in care with minimal guidance and performing with increasing confidence and competence.
Unlock Your Potential: Empowering Evidence-Based Decision Making in Health and Social Care
As part of your MSc Nursing journey, this dynamic, dissertation-style module will immerse you in the world of research and evidence-based practice, shaping you into a confident and capable researcher.
Prepare to challenge your thinking, enhance your skills, and make a tangible impact on health and social care outcomes.
Why This Module Matters:
Influence Practice: Understand how research influences decision-making in healthcare and social care practice, giving you the tools to drive positive change in your professional field.
Practical Application: Learn to apply cutting-edge methodologies and research approaches that are directly relevant to today’s evolving healthcare environment.
This isn’t just theory—it’s how you’ll make a real difference.
Fill the Gaps: Learn how to identify research gaps and areas ripe for further exploration, positioning yourself as a leader who drives forward knowledge and innovation.
Philosophy and Ethics: Explore the essential philosophies and ethical considerations in research, with a focus on the importance of reflexivity as you develop your identity as a researcher.
Data Mastery: Develop practical skills in gathering, organizing, and analysing data to ensure your findings are robust, accurate, and impactful.
Disseminate Your Findings: Learn the key strategies for disseminating your research to a wide audience, ensuring your findings have the broadest possible impact on your practice, your peers, and the healthcare community.
Audit, Evaluation, and Improvement: Dive into the world of audit, service evaluation, and service improvement, discovering how research can be used to enhance care quality and outcomes.
This blended-field module will arm you with the tools to contribute to the evidence that shapes the future of nursing and social care.
This engaging and high-impact module will prepare you to approach your nursing career with the confidence of a researcher, ready to shape policy, drive improvements, and deliver better outcomes.
Building Research Skills for Evidence-Based Nursing Practice
The Research Methods module is designed to equip you with essential research skills that underpin evidence-informed nursing and interprofessional practice in the UK.
Through a structured approach, you will develop the ability to critically appraise research, ensuring that your clinical decisions are informed by the best available evidence.
Developing Research Questions – Learn how to formulate focused and relevant research questions that address key nursing and healthcare issues.
Systematic Literature Searching – Gain the ability to search academic databases efficiently and review literature in a structured manner.
Theoretical Frameworks – Understand how theoretical models guide research design and inform nursing practice.
Research Methodologies – Explore qualitative, quantitative, and mixed methods research, and their applications in nursing and the wider healthcare setting.
Study Design and Sampling Methods – Examine different research designs and sampling techniques to ensure robust, ethical research.
Data Collection Techniques – Develop skills in collecting and managing research data through interviews, surveys, observations, and other methods.
Ensuring Rigour in Research – Understand the principles of reliability, validity, and trustworthiness in research.
Data Analysis Approaches – Learn how to analyse and interpret research findings effectively.
Statistical Tools in Research – Gain an introduction to key statistical tools and techniques used in quantitative research.
How This Module Supports Your Development This blended-field module will strengthen your ability to engage with and critique research in clinical practice, ensuring that you are prepared to contribute to the advancement of nursing knowledge.
By developing strong research skills, you will be better equipped to deliver high-quality, evidence-informed care and support improvements in healthcare outcomes.
This module provides an opportunity to enhance your analytical skills, expand your understanding of research methodologies, and build confidence in using research to inform nursing practice.
The programme is validated to the NMC 2018 Future Nurse standards, as such, we co-teach across the adult, child, and mental health nursing pre-registration programmes.
You can undertake work placements which are designed help you contextualise your knowledge and prepare you to meet the challenges of a rapidly changing clinical environment, whether this be a hospital, GP surgery, or community healthcare setting.
Placements are a compulsory element to the programme and will be undertaken with a range of partner sites and departments across the county of Lincolnshire.
Travel to placements will be expected and you will be responsible for all related travel costs, further information on this is available on the NHS website .
The University has invested £19 million in the Sarah Swift Building, a dedicated facility for the School of Health and Social Care.
The course is delivered in well-equipped clinical suites for simulated practice, with separate teaching and observation areas.
Students are assessed both formally and informally throughout the course to develop learning and autonomy.
Assessments can take place both within the University and practice placement environments.
Practice-based learning will be assessed as either a pass or fail.
Academic work contributes towards their final grade.
Some of the assessment on the course is led by tutors, however students are encouraged to engage in peer and self-assessment to help develop the skills of reflection and evaluation which are essential for lifelong learning and continued professional development, following registration as a nurse.
Some of the assessments focus on theoretical knowledge and the application of theory, and others on the practical performance of technical skills and patient management.
Assessments throughout the programme have been designed to be relevant to professional working practices.
This course has made me realise the diversity of roles I could do and given me insight into the intricacies of the healthcare system.
The clinical skills lectures and theory lectures have provided me with the skills and knowledge to feel confident going into placement.
Abbie Carter
Our nursing students have gone on to work in a wide range of healthcare settings in both community and acute services within Lincolnshire, Nottinghamshire, and further afield in posts such as community staff nurse, GP practice nurse, and nurses in accident and emergency departments.
- Applicants who meet the following entry criteria will be invited to an online group interview, the interviewers will be assessing that your character and values align with the NHS Values: https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/the-nhs-constitution-for-england/the-nhs-constitution-for-england#nhs-values
- Applicants should hold an honours degree at 2.2 classification or above.
- 3 GCSEs at grade 4 (C) including English, Maths, and Science, or equivalent qualifications.
These GCSEs must be obtained prior to applying.
Applicants who completed an Access to HE in Health and Social Care will be required to provide evidence of undertaking science units at level 3.
- Evidence of experience in a practice setting to include 650 hours of care related practice experience should be completed prior to application and discussed within your personal statement.
Documentation will need to be provided and verified within one month of interview (if successful).
Please see below for more information.
Certificates and degree transcripts of all previous qualifications will need to be provided before any offers are confirmed.
International Applicants
We welcome international applications although places are limited.
All international applicants require IELTS (Academic) 7.0 (with a minimum 5.5 in each element) for students whose first language is not English.
Applicants must provide a valid IELTS certificate at the point of application.
Students who have completed a UK degree within 5 years of their proposed enrolment at the University will not be required to provide IELTS.
International applicants need to obtain a recent criminal record certificate from their home country and ensure this is still valid by the date of enrolment in addition to the DBS requirements detailed below.
A list of admissible certificates can be found on the UK Government website, please see: https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/criminal-records-checks-for-overseas-applicants .
Other requirements include:
Advice for interview- Knowledge of contemporary health and social care issues, and the role of the Adult Nurse in providing healthcare
- All students will be required to sign the subject-specific Fitness to Practise Code of Conduct on entry, details of which will be forwarded with an offer letter.
- Satisfactory completion of an Enhanced Disclosure from the Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS), formerly the Criminal Records Bureau (CRB).
How you undertake that check will differ depending on where you are living, so further information will be provided as part of the enrolment process.
- Entry on to the course is subject to meeting the requirements of a profession specific occupational health screening.
Evidence of Experience in a Practice Setting:
This section of the portfolio relates to the evidence you need to provide to show that you have undertaken 650 hours of care related practice experience.
This will ensure that you are able to meet the required 2,300 hours of practice at the end of your programme which is a stipulation of the Nursing and Midwifery Council.
What do we mean by care-related practice?
In relation to Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning (RPEL), practice can be defined as:
A place of work that specialises in providing services to people requiring physical or psychological support or care.
Experience can be in the following:
- A hospital, care home, or community setting and can include people of any age, undertaken on a paid or voluntary basis, within an NHS, private or voluntary organisation.
A practice supervisor will be required to verify practice hours completion, but if you have already completed 650 hours of practice, for example as a healthcare assistant, you will not have to complete an additional 650 hours.
However, you will still have to ask a practice supervisor to verify that you have completed the required number of practice hours.
You are responsible for ensuring all sections of this document are completed and signed by a practice supervisor.
Examples of appropriate supervisors may include the following:
- Line manager,  Registered health or social care practitioner, Voluntary work coordinator/leader.
Applicants with Disabilities
We take seriously our obligation to make reasonable adjustments to ensure that all students with disabilities can successfully complete their studies.
All applicants will be assessed on the basis of the criteria outlined here regardless of any disability.
If you declare a disability we will invite you to work with us to explore how best we can support your studies.
Other information:
You must declare all spent and unspent criminal convictions including (but not limited to) cautions, reprimands, final warnings, bind over orders or similar and details of any minor offences, fixed penalty notices, penalty notices for disorder, ASBOs or VOOs.
Further information can be found at https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/disclosure-and-barring-service
I am a qualified nurse in my home country.
Can I apply for this programme?
You could apply if you were considering changing your field of registration.
However, this is not a post-registration Master's degree and you could make contact with the Nursing and Midwifery Council should you wish to register as a nurse to work in the UK.
If you would like further information about entry requirements or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk.
Nicola Deveaux ndeveaux@lincoln.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/ocuocums:
MSc Occupational Therapy (pre-registration) is a science-based programme designed to prepare graduates for work in a variety of settings, including health organisations, social care services, housing, education, voluntary organisations, or as independent practitioners.
This programme is suited to those who want to fulfil, or work towards fulfilling their potential as an occupational therapist, to promote function, quality of life, and the realisation of potential in people who are experiencing occupational deprivation, imbalance, or alienation.
They believe that activity can be an effective medium for remediating dysfunction, facilitating adaptation, and recreating identity.
Occupational therapists work with adults and children of all ages with a wide range of conditions; most commonly those who have difficulties due to a mental health illness, or physical or learning disabilities.
The course seeks to develop the skills, knowledge, and confidence needed to work in a range of complex and dynamic health and social care environments.
Students on this course are encouraged to appreciate and understand current occupational therapy practice, while being critical in their approach to developing new, innovative, and evidence-based interventions.
There are interprofessional components of the course which are designed to develop practitioners who are professional, compassionate, safe, reflective, and autonomous.
Working with peers from other professions including physiotherapy, nursing, midwifery, and social work helps promote team work, collaboration, and an application of research skills in the transformation of health and social care services.
Opportunities for interprofessional working
Practice based learning
Opportunities for placements
Opportunities to engage with research centres
The foundation of this course is the inter-professional learning approach to develop and promote a culture of wellness in health and social care.
Students on this pre-registration MSc Occupational Therapy course can experience collaborative approaches to learning and teaching that will challenge traditional perceptions of healthcare provision.
A variety of learning and teaching strategies will be used to cater for the individual needs of students on the programme.
These strategies may include lectures, seminars, workshops, small group activity, self-assessment, case studies, library based resources, clinical skills sessions, virtual learning, simulation, and practice-based learning.
To find out more about occupational therapy, please visit the Royal College of Occupational Therapy website at: https://www.rcot.co.uk/ and http://bit.ly/octherapy
Contact Hours and Independent Study
Contact hours may vary for each year of your course.
Students will be engaged in a two-year full-time course and so, at the very least, should expect to undertake a minimum of 37 hours of study each week during term-time.
There may also be assignments set outside of term time.
The composition and delivery of the course varies for each module.
Each year of the course runs from January to January.
Master's level study involves a significant proportion of independent study, exploring the material covered in lectures, seminars and practice-based learning.
As a general guide, for every hour spent in class, students are expected to spend two to three hours in independent study.
This course is accredited by the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) and the Royal College of Occupational Therapists (RCOT).
Successful completion of this programme will provide graduates with the eligibility to apply to the HCPC Register as an occupational therapist and membership of the Royal College of Occupational Therapists.
The Applied Sciences module develops and applies the biological, physical, psychological, and sociological sciences in the occupational therapy context of health and social care.
Learning through a series of core lectures, learners will then use seminar-based enquiry-based learning (EBL) activities to align the sciences with occupational therapy specific practice.
The module will promote the development of a knowledge base of core health and social science clinically relevant to the breadth of occupational therapy practice.
The acquisition of knowledge will be challenged through critical analysis and contextual application to develop a firm foundation for the practice of evidence-based occupational therapy in promoting wellness and addressing illness.
This module will explore a range of health conditions and their impact on occupational performance.
It will build on the learners theoretical knowledge of occupational therapy, introduce   different methods of assessment and explore the interpersonal skills required to build meaningful relationships in order to deliver collaborative and person centred care in the context of the individual’s life.
The learner will explore how to interpret information gathered from a variety of sources, how it contributes to the formulation of diagnosis within the Multi-Disciplinary Team and subsequently to a treatment plan, taking into account the personal preferences, personal and social circumstances of the individual.
Learners will explore this in the context of people at various stages of their lifespan, with a variety of needs and a range of different environmental settings.
This module will focus on a range of holistic person centred approaches to assessment which will develop the learner’s skills in clinical reasoning and case formulation that will be applied in practice.
Learners will consider their assessment strategies within the boundaries of their professional code of conduct.
This module has been designed to provide students with the opportunity to develop essential knowledge and understanding about the structure and function of health and social care in the UK.
The module will support students in making the transition to Master's level study and assist them in the development of key skills such as critical evaluation, reflection, and using evidence to underpin practice.
This module will explore the history of occupation in relation to the fundamental concepts of occupational science and occupational therapy, and the dynamic relationship between engagement in occupation, health and well-being.
Learners will be introduced to the theoretical knowledge and skills that underpin occupational therapy practice and links will be made between the impact of occupation, the person and their life context on occupational engagement.
Core skills for the professional practice that promotes occupational engagement over the lifespan will be analysed and will form the foundation for the development and application of occupational therapy practice.
Learners will develop their critical evaluation skills by exploring the evidence underpinning specific occupational therapy interventions, whilst starting to develop clinical reasoning and decision-making skills in the selection of therapeutic techniques.
Interventions to promote wellness, lifestyle change and self-management will be embedded in this module.
Learners will consider their role as an Occupational Therapist within the requirements of their professional code of conduct.
During this module learners will commence a CPD portfolio which they will use to connect their module learning and placement experiences and reflections.
This will be used throughout the programme and will prepare learners with the necessary skills to demonstrate their ongoing professional development as a graduate OT.
This module must be commenced prior to undertaking Practice Placements 1 and 2 which must be completed to achieve learning outcomes 5 and 6 of this module.
Population health and a population health approach aims to improve the health and wellbeing of a population, this could be at a local, regional or national level.
It is about improving both mental and physical health outcomes, wellbeing and reducing health inequalities.
It includes action to reduce ill health, ensure appropriate health and care services are provided and the wider determinants of health.
It requires working with communities and partner agencies (Holmes, 2022).
Lifestyle choices are increasing the risk of preventable diseases and affecting individual's wellbeing.
People are living longer with more multiple long-term conditions such as diabetes, heart disease and asthma and the health inequality gap in increasing.
Population health is one of the core strategic aims of integrated care systems (ICSs); to improve physical and mental health outcomes, promote wellbeing and reduce health inequalities across an entire population, focusing on the wider determinants of health (NHS England, 2023).
This module aims to build on the learners’ core knowledge and skills in occupational therapy and prepare the learner for the daily challenges encountered by a qualified occupational therapist.
Learners will be applying previous knowledge and skills to the assessment and interventions with service users who have more complex needs and multi morbidities, within increasingly complex and dynamic health and social care environments.
The teaching for this module will include practical workshops where learners will work on simulated and real life case scenarios to consolidate the philosophical and theoretical concepts that underpin occupational therapy in order to develop their professional identity, promote occupational engagement and be able to justify their practice.
This will include consideration of the individual’s s’ unique personal circumstances and the needs of care givers and others in the context of their social situation.
Learners will be applying previous knowledge and skills in evidence based practice, assessment and clinical reasoning to demonstrate the links between the theory of occupational therapy and real life practice including exploration of complex legal and ethical considerations in the practice of occupational therapy.
Critical reflection and evaluation of the outcomes of interventions will be emphasised and form the basis of ongoing decision making.
At the end of this module, learners should be prepared with the knowledge and skills to be an autonomous practitioner and practice within their professional code of conduct.
This module must be commenced prior to undertaking Practice Placement 5 which must be completed in order to achieve Learning Outcome 6 of this module.
In addition to academic-based learning in a modern university setting students will be required to complete over 1,000 hours of practice-based learning over four placements in a variety of clinical settings.
In the second year, students have the opportunity to develop a ‘role emerging placement’ to explore an area where occupational therapists haven’t traditionally worked before, subject to achieving the minimum requirements for supported practice learning.
This is an excellent opportunity to contextualise your learning, and further understand the role of an occupation therapist in a real-world setting.
You are responsible for your own travel, accommodation, and general living costs relating to placements, but some NHS funding may be available.
Students will be assessed both formally and informally throughout the course to develop their learning and autonomy.
The assessments will take place both within the University and practice placement environments.
Practice-based learning will be pass/fail, while the Level 7 academic work will contribute towards a student's final grade.
Some of the assessment will be led by tutors but students are also encouraged to engage in peer and self-assessment to help develop the skills of reflection and evaluation which are essential for lifelong learning and continued professional development following registration as an Occupational Therapist.
Some of the assessments will focus on theoretical knowledge and application of theory, and others on the practical performance of technical skills and patient management.
Detailed guidance of what is expected, and the assessment criteria, will be provided for each module.
The University of Lincoln's policy on assessment feedback aims to ensure that academics will return in-course assessments to students promptly - usually within 15 working days of the submission date (unless stated differently above).
Assessment methods on this course will vary for each module.
It could include coursework, such as a service transformation project, written and practical exams, and demonstrations, group work or presentations.
You will also be assessed in clinical practice on your four placement blocks.
The University of Lincoln is home to the Community and Health Research Unit (CaHRU), which is the research centre for the School of Health and Social Care.
CaHRU conducts world-leading interdisciplinary research with service users, health service professionals, and organisations to increase health and wellbeing across the health, social, and third sector care services.
CaHRU is allied with the Lincoln Institute for Health.
Many registered Occupational Therapists work within the NHS or in social care settings and are recruited and employed by individual organisations.
This forward-looking programme appreciates that many occupational therapists and new graduates may also work in non-traditional OT roles, or for private and third sector organisations.
New, varied, and innovative job opportunities are increasingly available to qualified Occupational Therapists, and this programme aims to prepare its graduates accordingly.
Non-clinical careers also exist in teaching, research, management and administration, health and safety, and training and development.
The experienced teaching team can help students explore and develop their individual career aspirations.
- Applicants should hold an honours degree at 2:2 classification or above.
If you are unsure whether your first degree is relevant, we welcome you to send us your degree transcript so that our Admissions Tutor can advise you further.
We welcome international applications although our places are very limited.
All international applicants require IELTS 7.0 with a minimum of 6.5 in each element for students whose first language is not English.
A list of admissible certificates can be found on the UK Government website; please see: https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/criminal-records-checks-for-overseas-applicants .
Other requirements include: - Evidence of recent academic learning - Successful performance at an interview - Knowledge of contemporary health and social care issues, and the role of the occupational therapist in providing health and social care interventions - Understanding of written material and can communicate clearly and accurately in written and spoken English.
- All students will be required to sign the subject-specific Fitness to Practice Code of Conduct on entry, details of which will be forwarded with an offer letter - Satisfactory completion of an Enhanced Disclosure from the Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS), including a check of all cautions and warnings as well as convictions before their place on the course is confirmed.
Note that the University will pay the costs of this check directly on your behalf.
Applicants with disabilities:
All applicants will be assessed based on the criteria outlined here regardless of any disability.
Further information can be found at https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/disclosure-and-barring-service .
You may find that there are additional costs.
These may be with regard to the specific clothing, materials or equipment required, depending on your course.
With regards to text books, the University provides students who enrol with a comprehensive reading list and you will find that our extensive library holds either material or virtual versions of the core texts that you are required to read.
Dr Louise Howe
lhowe@lincoln.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/phsphsms:
Physiotherapy is a science-based health profession that takes a 'whole person' approach to improving and maintaining wellbeing.
Physiotherapists help people affected by injury, illness, or disability using a range of interventions such as tailored exercise, manual therapy, and advice.
The interprofessional components of the course aim to develop skilled and compassionate practitioners who have the confidence to engage with and promote professional, social, and political change in health and social care.
Collaborative working with peers from a variety of disciplines promotes team work, and an application of research skills in the transformation of health and social care services.
Successful completion of this programme provides eligibility to apply for registration with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).
Varied and supported practice placement opportunities are available to develop students' awareness of the scope of physiotherapy.
Practice-based learning helps support the development of an understanding of different career opportunities within the NHS, private, third sectors, and beyond in an ever-changing healthcare workforce.
The Lincoln Institute for Health (LIH) is a University-wide multidisciplinary research collaboration that conducts internationally excellent and world-class studies from 'cell-to-community'.
Blended learning
Opportunities for practice-based learning placements
Access to research centres
Provides eligibility to register with the Health and Care Professions Council
The foundation of this course is the interprofessional learning approach to developing and promoting a culture of wellness in health and social care.
Students can experience collaborative approaches to learning and teaching that will challenge traditional perceptions of healthcare provision.
A variety of learning and teaching strategies are used to cater for the individual needs of students on the programme.
These strategies include lectures, seminars, workshops, small group activity, self-assessment, case studies, library based resources, clinical skills sessions, virtual learning, simulation, and practice-based learning.
There will be a blended approach to learning with students learning on campus in face to face sessions such as clinical skills sessions and online for live lectures and seminars or pre-recorded sessions that students can access at a time convenient to them.
Students are expected to gain more than 1,000 hours of practice-based learning in a variety of clinical settings.
In the year 2, students can be supported in developing an optional elective clinical placement, subject to having achieved the minimum requirements for supported practice learning.
Contact hours may vary for each year of the course.
Students will be engaging in a two-year full-time course and so, at the very least, should expect to undertake a minimum of 37 hours of study each week during term-time.
Students may also need to undertake assignments outside of term-time.
Masters level study involves a significant proportion of independent study, exploring the material covered in lectures, seminars and practice-based learning.
The practice-based learning placements are five weeks in duration apart from placement block 1, which is four weeks long.
There are three placement blocks in Year 1 and three five- week blocks in Year 2.
This helps to ensure that students are given an adequate opportunity to achieve the minimum 1,000 hours that would be required for registration with the Chartered Society of Physio-therapy (CSP) and to apply for registration with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).
Students will not be required to attend University during the clinical placement blocks.
This programme is accredited by the Chartered Society of Physiotherapy (CSP) and approved by the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).
Successful completion of this programme will provide graduates with the eligibility to apply to the HCPC Register as a physiotherapist and membership of the Chartered Society of Physiotherapy.
Simulation days are an important aspect of teaching for all of our Health and Social Care Programmes.
Days such as these allow our students to practice their clinical skills in safe and controlled environments.
On this day our Physiotherapy students were faced with scenarios that may occur in sport environments.
This module aims to develop and apply the biological, physical, psychological, and sociological sciences in the physiotherapy context of health and social care.
Through a series of core lectures, students can use enquiry-based learning seminar activities to align the sciences with physiotherapy practice.
The Applied Sciences module is designed to promote the development of clinically applied knowledge in core health and social science relevant to physiotherapy practice.
This knowledge base is the foundation for developing a biopsychosocial approach to patient care.
This module aims to develop students’ knowledge and skills when working with specific patient groups.
Learning and teaching covers speciality including children and young people and older adults.
However, students are encouraged to think and work across speciality boundaries and the traditionally viewed core areas of physiotherapy (cardiovascular respiratory, neuro and MSK) too.
Students are encouraged to develop an inclusive, person-centred approach to assessing and managing people and patient groups to arrive at a reasoned and evidence-informed clinical impression and management plan.
Learners will be able to respond appropriately to the needs of different groups and individuals, including but not limited to those with protected characteristics, intersectional experiences and cultural differences.
Students are expected to apply previously acquired knowledge and skills from Foundations of Physiotherapy Practice and Applied Sciences in Physiotherapy as well as their practice-based learning placement and build on these for specialised patient groups.
Students will have the opportunity to develop a person-centred approach and demonstrate professional values and behaviours to achieve optimal patient outcomes and in applied legal and ethical frameworks.
Students will develop a professional and person-centred approach to assessing patients to arrive at a critically reasoned and evidence-informed clinical impression via problem-based learning.
This module will build upon the theory learned from the Applied Science in Physiotherapy module, by covering practical decision-making relative to assessment, diagnosis and treatment to form a foundation for practice placements and subsequent modules.
For example, students will learn about the cardiovascular respiratory (CVR) system in the Applied Science in Physiotherapy module, alongside practical assessment and treatment techniques in the acute care (hospital) / in- patient ward environment Foundations in Physiotherapy Practice session.
There will be a focus on the role of effective communication as a key skill in modern health and social care.
The module will include the analysis and assessment of functional human movement, and the cardiovascular, respiratory, neurological, and musculoskeletal systems through a place- based care approach.
Students will also explore the role of wider psycho-social assessment measures.
Learners will develop their critical evaluation skills by exploring the evidence underpinning interventions, whilst developing clinical reasoning skills in the selection of therapeutic techniques.
I started to specialise into Physiotherapy for Women’s Health in 2021, when my trust were tasked with piloting a new, community service.
I found it really interesting to see and experience first-hand the skills we had learned as part of the Service Evaluation and Service Transformation modules in our second year of study.
Faye Button
Students will be assessed both formally and informally throughout the course in order to develop learning and autonomy.
The assessments will take place within the University, online and practice placement environments.
Practice-based learning will be pass / fail, while the Level 7 academic work will contribute towards your final grade.
Some assessment will be led by the course tutors, but students may also be encouraged to engage in peer and self-assessment to help develop the skills of reflection and evaluation which are essential for lifelong learning and continued professional development following registration as a Physiotherapist.
Some of the assessments will focus on theoretical knowledge and application of theory and others on the practical performance of technical skills and patient management.
Detailed guidance of what is expected, and assessment criteria, will be provided for each module.
The University of Lincoln's policy on assessment feedback aims to ensure that academics will return in-course assessments to students promptly usually with-in 15 working days of the submission date (unless stated differently above).
The way students are assessed on this course will vary for each module.
It could include coursework, such as a service transformation project, written and practical exams, written assignments, portfolio development, group work, or presentations.
In 2024, a joint project between the University of Lincoln and the local community NHS trust launched a student led physiotherapy clinic.
This voluntary clinic is an opportunity for students on the programme to gain valuable experience in a setting supervised by qualified physiotherapists seeing NHS patients.
Many registered and Chartered Physiotherapists work for the NHS and are recruited and employed by individual Trusts.
This programme is forward-looking and appreciates that many physiotherapists and new graduates may also work in the military, sports, private, and third sectors.
New, varied, and innovative job opportunities are increasingly available to qualified physiotherapists, and this programme aims to prepare its graduates accordingly.
If you are unsure whether your first degree is relevant we welcome you to send us your degree transcript so that our Admissions Tutor can advise you further.
A list of admissible certificates can be found on the UK Government website; please see:
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/criminal-records-checks-for-overseas-applicants .
Other requirements include: -Successful performance at an interview.
- Knowledge of contemporary health and social care issues, and the role of the Physiotherapist in providing healthcare.
- Satisfactory completion of an Enhanced Disclosure from the Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) (formerly the Criminal Records Bureau (CRB).
International applicants need to obtain a recent criminal record certificate from their home country and ensure this is still valid by the date of enrolment.
Applicants with disabilities
Following successful application, applicants will be invited to a competitive selection process that will involve an online group interview with an academic member of staff and either a clinician, service user, and fellow applicants.
With regards to text books, the University provides students with a comprehensive reading list and our extensive library holds either material or virtual versions of the core texts that students are required to read.
Students may prefer to purchase some of these for themselves and will therefore be responsible for this cost.
A full Occupational Health screening assessment and vaccination programme is included as part of your course fees.
A charge may be incurred per missed appointment.
Vaccinations programmes you choose to undertake with your own GP or health provider may be subject to their charges.
The University will not reimburse you for these costs.
Additional costs
Rowena Burgess rburgess@lincoln.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/course/splathms:
Speech and Language Therapy (SLT) is a growing profession which offers a range of career options; from working with children, adults, people with learning disabilities, and in education and healthcare settings such as hospitals, schools, clinics, in the community, and in people's own homes.
Those who access SLT services may have speech, language, communication, or eating and swallowing needs related to childhood development, learning disabilities, or may have acquired a difficulty in relation to a condition (such as stroke, brain injury, neurological condition, hearing impairment, dementia or mental health).
This programme offers the opportunity for graduates to fast track beyond their first degree into rewarding professional careers.
A range of learning opportunities are supported by academic team in the University, in partnership with Speech and Language Therapists in practice settings.
As well as self directed study and assignments, learners will access teaching within their own cohort on campus and online.
Our aim is to develop confident, reflective, and resilient professionals who are able to apply their theoretical knowledge flexibly to meet the unique needs of individuals and their families or carers.
The interprofessional components of the course aim to develop skilled and compassionate practitioners who have the confidence to promote professional, social, and political change in health and social care.
Collaborative working with peers from a variety of disciplines promotes teamwork, and an application of research skills in the transformation of health and social care services.
In practice settings, a series of placements in local Speech and Language Therapy services, where each learner under the supervision of a registered SLT learns to practice the clinical and professional skills.
The programme is based upon the guidance of the Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists, the Health and Care Professions Council Standards of Proficiency for Speech and Language Therapists.
Guest lecturers with specialist skills and experience
Teaching led by registered Speech and Language Therapists
Registered with Health and Care Professions Council
Undertake research in a specialist area
The two year programme is full time and delivered via a blend of learning methods, including self directed learning, face-to-face teaching, practical, and simulated, as well as practice learning undertaken on placements.
Students typically spend Mondays and Tuesdays undertaking self-directed and guided study linked to current modules and placements.
Face-to-face teaching and group work is then expected to take place on Wednesday, Thursday, and Fridays, although timetables may be adjusted when you are on placement.
This module aims to develop students' understanding of the biological, medical, psychological, and social sciences that underpin the scientific knowledge of speech and language therapy.
Students will use directed and self-directed learning to complete their understanding of these foundations of clinical practice.
This module will draw from the basic understanding of biomedical science, psychology, and social science.
Students will have the opportunity to learn how to apply the analysis and transcription skills required for effective clinical practice.
Students will be able to complete the development of their professional skills in readiness for applying to Health and Care Professions Council for registration.
Focus will be centred around their clinical skills development and how speech and language therapists can  support adults and young people with communication difficulties.
This module aims to develop and improve skills of independent enquiry and practice-focussed research.
The module will support students to develop an understanding of a range of research approaches that can be used to address research questions allowing them to develop an evidence-based approach to their practice.
This module aims to provide students with the competence needed to assess and manage people with EDS needs and formulate a clear plan for their further development needs.
This module contributes to the development of clinically applied knowledge in speech and language therapy practice.
It builds upon an understanding of language and psychological development across the lifespan and runs in parallel with placement one, where students will have the opportunity to practice real-time transcription skills in natural settings such as nurseries, schools, and care homes.
This module provides the learner with a knowledge and skills of appropriate quality improvement tools to systematically evaluate an area of service delivery within their field of practice.
The module will support students to critically examine current research and audit practices in order to systematically reviewing the literature to find alternative ways of working to improve patient outcomes.
Students will be expected to prepare a business case proposal for change within their professional area.
Students will work full-time in a clinical setting for a four-week period alongside newly registered speech and language therapists i.e.
at band 5 or equivalent.
This module aims to develop students' clinical reasoning skills, learning how to plan and evaluate safe, personalised evidence-informed practice with light supervision by the practice educator.
Their practice at the end of the placement will ideally equate to what is expected of a newly registered speech and language therapist.
During placement, students will be able to develop their skills in reflective practice, building on the introductions made in Clinical and Professional Practice (children) and Essential Interprofessional Practice modules.
This placement module aims to develop students' professional skills in a clinical setting for the first time.
Each student will be supervised by one or more practice educators.
This module will provide students with opportunities to apply theoretical and simulated learning about Eating, Drinking and Swallowing module in a clinical setting and to complete competencies, signed off by practice educators.
Students will be able to consider how the basics of health improvement and public health can be applied alongside clinical interventions in the practice setting (Applied Health Improvement).
This module will encourage students to supplement other practice education placements with the opportunity to learn about the settings and organisations that support people with communication and/or swallowing difficulties or specific settings where speech and language therapists work or to broaden their understanding of UK healthcare or education provision with an international perspective of the profession.
Each student will undertake at least 525 hours practice learning, where they will be placed into local services developing their clinical and professional skills in different healthcare and education settings, working with children and adults who have speech, language, communication and eating and swallowing needs.
Students will be supported by a registered Speech and Language Therapist (Practice Educator) and a tutor from the University.
Students will be required to travel to various locations as part of the placement and uniforms are provided.
Although a full driving license and means of transportation will be beneficial, they are not essential.
Students are responsible for all placement-related travel costs, you may be eligible for reimbursement of some of these costs , further information on this is available on the NHS website.
Uniforms will be provided to all students.
This programme is accredited by the Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists (RCSLT).
This means the planned design of the course curriculum meets the gold standard for pre-registration speech and language therapy programmes.
Students will be encouraged to become an RCSLT member, which is free of charge to students and provides a wealth of resources and networks to support their development as trainee speech and language therapists.
This course is approved by the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).
Successful completion of this programme will provide graduates with the eligibility to apply to register with the Health and Care Professionals Council.
A wide range of assessment methods are used through the course, which have been specifically designed to provide further learning opportunities for students, and to allow them to demonstrate skills which will be required in their career as speech and language therapists.
These may  include: written reports, practical skills tests, presentations, portfolio development, and case studies.
Graduates of this programme have excellent opportunities to pursue a rewarding career as a Speech and Language therapist upon successful application to the Health and Care Professions Council for registration.
As Speech and Language therapy is a shortage profession in the UK and graduates have excellent opportunities to apply for positions in NHS, local authorities, independent practice, and the not-for-profit sector, both locally and nationally.
The Community and Health Research Unit (CaHRU) is the research centre for the School of Health and Social Care.
A 2:2 degree in a related subject (such as biological or medical science, psychology, linguistics, English language, health and social care, or child development.
Please note this list is not prescriptive)
or
A degree in any subject, together with work, voluntary, or personal experience.
Examples of relevant experience can include:
- Employment in  a speech and language therapy service.
-Working in any health care, social care, or education setting where people with speech, language, and communication difficulties are supported.
- Unpaid experience of supporting people who live with speech, language, and communication difficulties.
- Experience of working with the public in a setting where you were able to develop skills to support people with communication disabilities.
Applicants should also be able to describe:
- Their understanding of the Speech and Language therapy profession.
- Their understanding of the full range of the speech ,language, and communication difficulties and the ways in which these impact the lives of adults, children, and families.
Entry to the programme, which is underpinned by the Health and Care professions Council (HCPC) Professional Standards, is subject to an online group interview.
- Satisfactory completion of an Enhanced Disclosure from the Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS), including a check of all cautions and warnings as well as convictions, before their place on the course is confirmed.
- Be able to communicate in English to the standard equivalent to Level 8 of the International English Language Testing system, with no element below 7.5.
The requirement is stricter for speech and language therapists than for all other HCPC professions, as communication in English is a core professional skills (standard 14.20, Standards of Proficiency for Speech and Language Therapists).
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk.
Applicants are interviewed online in groups of up to six, where they are expected to answer questions and engage in discussions.
Prior to the interview, preparatory reading will be shared for the discussion activity.
For more information about this course, please contact the Programme Leader by emailing: TrDay@lincoln.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/internationalfeesandfunding/earlypaymentdiscount:
The University of Lincoln’s Early Payment Discount and Advance Full Payment Discount are designed to help support international students enrolling at the University in September 2025 and January 2026.
Find out more below.
What Is the Early Payment Discount?
The University of Lincoln’s Early Payment Discount is designed to support international applicants enrolling onto an International Year 1, Undergraduate, Pre-master's, or Postgraduate taught programme at the University in September 2025 and January 2026 .
International applicants who meet the eligibility criteria listed below will be eligible to receive a £1,000 reduction in tuition fees.
To be eligible to receive the Early Payment Discount for September 2025 entry, applicants must:
Please note that applicants who have been awarded a Global Leaders Scholarship from the University of Lincoln will not be eligible to receive the Early Payment Discount.
Students enrolling onto a programme of study with a duration of two or more years will only be eligible to receive the Early Payment Discount during their first year of enrolment at the University.
September 2025 Deadlines:
Please see the CAS, Early Payment and Advanced Full Payment Discount deadlines below:
To be eligible to receive the Early Payment Discount for January 2026 entry, applicants must:
January 2026 Deadlines:
The CAS & Early Payment Discount deadlines for the January 2026 intake will be released in the coming months.
Please check back for further information.
What Is the Advance Full Payment Discount?
The University of Lincoln’s Advance Full Payment Discount is designed to support international applicants enrolling onto an International Year 1, Undergraduate, Pre-master's, or Postgraduate taught programme at the University in September 2025 and January 2026 .
International applicants who meet the eligibility criteria listed below will be eligible to receive a £1,500 reduction in tuition fees.
To be eligible to receive the Advance Full Payment Discount for September 2025 entry, applicants must:
Please note that applicants who have been awarded a Global Leaders Scholarship from the University of Lincoln will not be eligible to receive the Advance Full Payment Discount.
To be eligible to receive the Advance Full Payment Discount for January 2026 entry, applicants must:
Please note that applicants who have been awarded a Global Leaders Scholarship from the University of Lincoln will not be eligible to receive the Advance Full Payment Discount.
Students enrolling onto a programme of study with a duration of two or more years will only be eligible to receive the Advance Full Payment Discount during their first year of enrolment at the University.
Eligible students are only entitled to receive either the Early Payment Discount or the Advance Full Payment Discount.
For the avoidance of doubt, they cannot be combined.
The discounts are available for the September 2025 and January 2026 intakes and cannot be deferred to a later start date.
We want to ensure you have all of the information you need to make an informed decision.
If you have a question regarding the Early Payment Discount or the Advance Full Payment Discount, or would like to discuss your application to the University of Lincoln, please contact the International Enquiries Team .
Detailed information regarding how to make payment can be found on our Paying Tuition Fees page.
Further information regarding the University of Lincoln’s refund policy can be found in our Admissions Terms and Conditions .

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/howtoapply/undergraduateandpostgraduate:
Studying in the UK can be life changing and we are delighted that you are considering the University of Lincoln.
We have created this page to help you find out more about our admissions process and how to submit an application for an undergraduate or postgraduate degree programme.
If you need any help or support in completing your application form, get in touch with us.
Our International Enquiries team is here to help.
Applications are open for a range of undergraduate programmes commencing in September 2025 at the University of Lincoln.
If you are intending to study a Bachelor's degree programme you will need to submit your application through the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS).
Further information on how to apply can be found on the UCAS website.
Application Deadline
You should aim to submit your application prior to the UCAS equal consideration deadline on Wednesday 29 January at 6pm (GMT).
There are limited places available on our programmes and we encourage you to apply as early as possible.
We may still accept applications after the equal consideration deadline if places are available.
Find out more about key UCAS deadlines .
What happens next?
After you have submitted your application our admissions team will review the information you have provided.
Once your application has been reviewed you will receive a notification from the University via the UCAS Hub.
It's important to check this regularly as you may be invited to an interview or asked to provide further documents.
Applying for our Global Business Top-Up Programme
Applications are open to join year two or year three of our BA (Hons) Global Business top-up programme commencing in September 2025.
To apply for this programme, students can apply through UCAS or directly on our website.
Students applying to this programme via direct entry should start their application through the following link to our online application system .
Applications for a range of postgraduate programmes starting in September 2025 at the University of Lincoln are open.
There are limited spaces on our programmes and we encourage you to apply as early as possible to avoid disappointment.
Applications for postgraduate programmes must be submitted via the University’s online application system.
To apply please visit the course page and click 'apply now'.
Final-year students at the University of Lincoln are invited to use the Fast-track Postgraduate Application Form , which can be submitted through your Blackboard account.
As part of the application process, you will be asked to provide supporting documents which include:
Personal Statement
You will be required to provide a personal statement as part of your application.
This is your opportunity to tell us why you are applying to study your chosen course.
It is also important that you include:
When writing your personal statement, please make sure that you refer to the course information page on this website as this contains details of course content, entry requirements, and possible career opportunities for successful graduates.
It's important to make sure your personal statement is your own, and you do not copy this from somewhere else, or rely on AI to do this for you.
Applying for a Research Programme
We're home to a thriving research community at the University of Lincoln and are pleased you are considering a Research programme with us.
Find out more about the application process for a research programme.
If you are interested in applying for an International Year One programme or a Pre-Master's course, you can find out more information in our How to Apply for a Degree Preparation Programme page.
The University of Lincoln work in partnership with education agents around the world.
Find an Agent
Once you have received an offer of a place at the University of Lincoln, we would recommend visiting our Information for Offer Holders page, which includes information about applying for your CAS and Visa, preparing for your journey to the UK, accommodation and more.
Offer Holders
Prepare for Your Journey to Lincoln

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/agents:
What is the Role of an Education Agent?
We understand that coming to study in the UK is a big step.
To help support students on their journey, the University of Lincoln work in partnership with education agents who provide help and support to students from around the world who are thinking of studying with us.
The University of Lincoln has a partnership with more than 100 education agencies across the globe.
As part of their role, they are authorised by the University to provide advice and guidance to overseas students who are thinking of studying here in Lincoln.
Alongside helping you to find a course which suits your interests and ambitions, our education agent partners can:
Whilst our education agent partners are able to provide advice and guidance, they are not permitted to issue an offer of a place at the University, or to collect deposits or tuition fee payments on our behalf.
Further information on how to pay your deposit or tuition fees to the University of Lincoln can be found on our paying tuition fees page.
In recognition of the support provided, and subject to meeting eligibility criteria, our education agent partners receive remuneration from the University .
Our Commitment to Quality Assurance
We are proud to be among the first universities in the UK to sign the UK Agent Quality Framework Pledge.
As a signatory, the University of Lincoln is committed to maintaining the highest standards of agent management, and to supporting the principles of the Agent Quality Framework.
Before you select an education agency we encourage you to read the British Council’s guide to choosing an education agent.
The guide includes a checklist to help you find out more about the services provided by the agent, alongside some of the important things you will need to consider when making your decision.
If you have used the services of one of our agent education partners and would like to provide feedback or have a complaint about an agent providing a service please email international@lincoln.ac.uk .
The contact details of our authorised education agent partners can be found below.
If you are unable to find an education agent in your country, we encourage you to contact us by completing our enquiry form .
IDP www.idp.com/global
StudyIn https://gostudyin.com/
AH&Z Associates www.ahzassociates.co.uk
AIMs Education Limited www.aims-education.com
Maj3 for IT Emonovo www.emonovo.com/en
World Student Advisors www.worldstudentadvisors.com
Latino American Education Holdings PTY Ltd https://www.lae-edu.com/
Castlehill www.chglobal.co.uk
Easy Apply www.easyapplyedu.com
Edvoy Education Ltd www.edvoy.com
Global Study UK Ltd www.globalstudyuk.com
IDP Bahrain www.idp.com/middleeast
JNS Limited www.jnsedu.com
Market Management Services (MMS) www.mmsmalaysia.com/
Talib Consultancy (UK) Ltd www.tclglobal.co.uk
Adept International www.adeptintbd.com
Crizac Ltd www.crizac.co.uk
Edroots International www.edroots.com
IAE Edu Net www.iaeglobal.co/our-offices
IDP www.idp.com/bangladesh/
KC Overseas www.studies-overseas.com
Leo global Services Ltd www.leoglobaloverseas.com
London School of Excellence www.londonschoolofexcellence.com
New Ways Consultancy www.newwayuk.com
WIN Education Service Co Ltd www.win-ed.co.uk
Studies Planet.com www.studiesplanet.com
QS Student Apply www.topuniversities.com/events
GO Kampus www.gokampus.com
HRD Services www.hrdservices.co.uk
Yes Corporate Group PTY LTD www.yesedugroup.com.au
S Three Education Consultants www.s3education.com
Clarity Education www.clarityeducation.ng
Bright Can-Achieve Ltd www.can-achieve.com
Amber Education Holding Limited www.amberedu.com/
Beijing Aus-Canada Education Consulting Co.
www.aijiaedu.cn
Beijing Chivast Education International www.chivast.com
Beijing Jiexue Wenyuan Tehnology Beijing L&J Education Technology Beijing New Oriental Vision Overseas Consulting www.liuxue.xdf.cn
Beijing Tianchengbolin Education Beijing Yulongshikong Education Technology www.cqu.edu.a
BISU Education & Technology Co.
Ltd EIC Education www.eic.org.cn
Bright Can-Achieve Ltd www.edurecruit.io
BWD (Beijing) Educational Consulting Co Ltd www.bwdbj.com
China Prospects Consulting www.51edu.cn
Carry International www.carryeducation.com
Cosmo Academic LTD www.cosmo-edu.com
Dongfang International Center for Educational www.cscdf.org
Elite-edu Education Consulting www.eliteeducationconsultinggroup.com
Global Education Alliance Limited www.geaworld.org
Golden Arrow Overseas Consulting https://edurecruit.io/
Golden Rock Cultural Exchange Limited
Guangzhou Tao You Education China Huatong Xinnuo Int'l Cultural Exchange Center www.wgtn.up.education
Hefei Ziyu Education Consulting Company IAE Edu Net www.iaeglobal.net IDP www.idp.com/global iHorizon Group (HK) Limited www.51offer.com Intergreat Education Group www.intergreat.com IUP 2 LLP (INTO) www.getthedata.com JJL Overseas Education Consulting & Service Co Ltd www.jjl.cn
Index Education Services www.indexedu.com.cn JT Education Limited www.jteducation.com Kaplan International Colleges UK Limited www.kaplanpathways.com Liu Cheng International Group Limited www.lcig.io Ningbo Paisheng Education Technology Co.
Shinyway International www.igo.cn/ StudyIn https://gostudyin.com/ SISU-Study Abroad Centre Wuhan Office www.en.shisu.edu.cn/global/study-abroad South Wales Education www.southwaleseducation.co.uk Wiseway Global Co.
Ltd www.wiseway.com.cn Offer4Uni Ltd www.offer4uni.com Pengfei Education and Immigration Consultancy Ltd www.pengfeiuk.com/ Peony Culture Communication Ltd www.peonyglobal.com Suzhou Yimou Oversea Study Consulting
UK Offer International Education Limited www.ukofferedu.com UKEC www.ukec.com UVIC Limited www.uvic.co.uk W.L.Hillside Investment Ltd.
(T/A UOffer Global) www.ukuoffer.co.uk
IDP www.idp.com/global StudyIn https://gostudyin.com/ Studies Planet.com www.studiesplanet.com QS Student Apply https://studentapply.org/en
Network Education Services www.network.gr
Nicholas Kythreotis & Co www.acadiaeducation.com
AH&Z Associates www.ahzassociates.co.uk BESA Group – British Educational Services Group www.besaeg.com Castlehill www.chglobal.co.uk Education Basket www.education-basket.com Edvoy Education Ltd www.edvoy.com HECUK Limited www.hec-uk.com Global Study UK www.globalstudyuk.com IDP www.idp.com/egypt Maj3 for IT Emonovo www.emonovo.com/en QS Student Apply https://studentapply.org/en Studies Planet.com www.studiesplanet.com Uni Connect Education Ltd www.universityconnect.uk
Markcon www.markcon.org
IDP www.idp.com/global Latin America Education www.lae-edu.com London School of Excellence www.londonschoolofexcellence.com Markcon www.markcon.org
Aims Education https://aimseducation.co.uk/
Bonfield Education Advisory www.beadgh.com BCIE, Ghana www.bcie.co.uk Clarity Education www.clarityeducation.ng CUPA Study International www.cupaghana.net Edvoy Education Ltd www.edvoy.com Eminent Transglobal Services (ETGSL) IDP Ghana www.idp.com/global London School of Excellence www.londonschoolofexcellence.com PFL Group International Limited www.preparationforlife.com Regal Uno Consulting www.regaluno.com SOS International Education Consulting www.sosiec.com StudyIn https://gostudyin.com/ World Student Advisors www.worldstudentadvisors.com
IDP www.idp.com/global London School of Excellence www.londonschoolofexcellence.com Markcon www.markcon.org Network Education Services www.network.gr Nicholas Kythreotis & Co www.acadiaeducation.com
IDP www.idp.com/global London School of Excellence www.londonschoolofexcellence.com
Amber Education Holding Limited www.amberedu.com.hk British United Education Services www.britishunited.net Education Tower Limited www.educationtower.com Hong Kong Education Web Ltd www.education.com.hk Hong Kong Overseas Study Centre www.hkosc.com.hk Global Education Alliance Ltd www.geaworld.org IDP www.idp.com/global JM Education Group www.jmeducationgroup.com StudyIn https://gostudyin.com/
UniEd Smart Study Centre www.augstudy.com W.L.Hillside Investment Ltd.
AH&Z Associates www.ahzassociates.co.uk AIMs Education Limited www.aims-education.com Azent Education DMCC www.azent.com Brits Overseas Consultant www.britconsultant.com Crizac Ltd www.crizac.co.uk Edwise International LLP www.edwiseinternational.com Edroots International www.edroots.com Edvoy www.edvoy.com Focus Education Global Private Ltd www.focusedu.org Leap GeeBee EdTech Private Limited www.geebeeworld.com Global Opportunities www.global-opportunities.net IAE India www.iaeglobalindia.net IDP www.idp.com/global Info Edge (India) Limited www.Infoedge.in International Placewell Consultants www.educationoverseas.com ISDC Projects www.isdclearning.global KC Overseas www.studies-overseas.com Leverage Ed-Tech Private Ltd www.leverageedu.com Leo Global Services Ltd www.leoglobaloverseas.com London School of Excellence www.londonschoolofexcellence.com Matglober Careers Private Limited www.matglober.com Oberois Education Link Limited www.educationlinkhouse.com Pi Digital Media Network Private Limited www.gradstarglobal.com SAAC Education Abroad www.saaceduabroad.com Santa Monica Study Abroad Private Limited www.santamonicaedu.in StudyIn https://gostudyin.com/ S NANDY Overseas Education FZ-LLC TA Global Campus https://global-campus.in/ Info Edge - Shikska www.shiksha.com UKIEC www.ukiec.co.uk Yuranus Education & Immigration www.yuranuseducation.com
Alfalink Overseas Studies https://www.alfalink.net/
Australian Education Victoria Pty.
Ltd (AECC) www.aeccglobal.com Bright Can-Achieve Ltd www.can-achieve.com IDP www.idp.com/indonesia IAE www.iaeglobal.co/our-offices GO Kampus www.gokampus.com Jack Study Abroad Singapore (GL Zinc Pte) www.jackstudy.com StudyIn https://gostudyin.com/ PT Info Cemerland Andal Nusa www.ican-education.com UniEd Smart Study Centre www.augstudy.com Yes Corporate Group PTY LTD www.yesedugroup.com.au
IDP www.idp.com/iran Arman Persian TA MyArman www.MyArman.com
Edvoy Education Ltd www.edvoy.com IDP www.idp.com/global
ELAB Italy www.elabedu.eu/it
Latin American Education www.lae-edu.com
IAE Edu Net www.iaeglobal.co/our-offices IDP www.idp.com/global StudyIn https://gostudyin.com/
Castlehill www.chglobal.co.uk Easy Apply www.easyapplyedu.com Edvoy Education Ltd www.edvoy.com Global Study UK Ltd www.globalstudyuk.com IDP www.idp.com/middleeast Talib Consultancy (UK) Ltd www.tclglobal.co.uk/about
IDP www.idp.com/global StudyIn https://gostudyin.com/
BCIE www.bcie.co.uk Bonfield Education www.beadgh.com Clarity Education www.clarityeducation.ng IDP www.idp.com/global London School of Excellence www.londonschoolofexcellence.com PFL Group International Limited www.preparationforlife.com StudyIn https://gostudyin.com/ S Three Education Consultants www.s3education.com Uniserv Ltd www.uniserveducation.com World Student Advisors www.worldstudentadvisors.com
AH&Z Associates www.ahzassociates.co.uk Easy Apply Education Consultancy www.easyapplyedu.com Edvoy Education Ltd www.edvoy.com Global Study UK Ltd www.globalstudyuk.com HECUK Limited www.hec-uk.com IDP www.idp.com/middleeast JNS Limited www.jnsedu.com Talib Consultancy (UK) Ltd www.tclglobal.co.uk/about
Education Basket www.education-basket.com Global Study UK www.globalstudyuk.com IDP www.idp.com/middleeast
IDP www.idp.com/global MOD Education www.modeducation.info
Global Education Alliance Ltd www.geaworld.org IDP www.idp.com/global
IDP www.idp.com/global Uniserv Ltd www.uniserveducation.com
Ltd (AECC) www.aeccglobal.com
IDP www.idp.com/malaysia
Global Education Alliance www.gesglobalgroup.com
JM Education Group www.jmeducationgroup.com
Mabecs www.mabecs.com
QS Student Apply https://studentapply.org/en
Tedvisory www.tedvisory.com
UKEC www.my.ukec.com
UniEd Smart Study Centre www.augstudy.com
IDP www.idp.com/global World Student Advisors www.worldstudentadvisors.com
IDP www.idp.com/global Studies Planet.com www.studiesplanet.com QS Student Apply www.topuniversities.com/events
AH&Z Associates www.ahzassociates.co.uk IDP www.idp.com/global London School of Excellence www.londonschoolofexcellence.com StudyIn https://gostudyin.com/
StudyWing Associação https://studywing.org/
Crown Consulting www.crownedu.net IDP www.idp.com/global
AH&Z Associates www.ahzassociates.co.uk Crizac Ltd www.crizac.co.uk Edroots International www.edroots.com Edvoy Education Ltd www.edvoy.com IAE Edu Net www.iaeglobal.co/our-offices IDP www.idp.com/global Leo global Services Ltd www.leoglobaloverseas.com KC Overseas www.studies-overseas.com StudyIn https://gostudyin.com/
Aims Education https://aimseducation.co.uk/ African Development Institute of Research www.adirm.com.ng BCIE www.bcie.co.uk Bonfield Education www.beadgh.com Brookline Consult www.brooklineconsult.com Clarity Education www.clarityeducation.ng Comfort Eduserve www.comforteduserve.org Edvoy Education Ltd www.edvoy.com Eminent Transglobal Services (ETGSL) http://www.etgslgroup.com/ Exodustrip Global Collection www.exodustripsandtours.com.ng Global Networks Educational Services www.globalnetworksedu.com IDP www.idp.com/nigeria L ondon School of Excellence www.londonschoolofexcellence.com MOD Education www.modeducation.info New Way Consultancy Ltd www.newwayuk.com.ng PFL Group International Limited www.preparationforlife.com Regal Uno Consulting www.regaluno.com Rosymoon International Study Advisers Ltd www.facebook.com/Rosymoonpage Seed Gap www.seedgap.com StudyIn https://gostudyin.com/ SOS International Education Consulting www.sosiec.com TG Marchnata Enterprises www.tgmeducation.com WIN Education Service Co Ltd www.win-ed.co.uk World Student Advisors www.worldstudentadvisors.com Vantage Scope 360 www.vantagescope360degrees.com
Easy Apply www.easyapplyedu.com Edvoy Education Ltd www.edvoy.com IDP www.idp.com/middleeast CastleHill www.chglobal.co.uk Global Study UK www.globalstudyuk.com Matglober Careers Private Limited www.matglober.com Talib Consultancy (UK) Ltd www.tclglobal.co.uk/about
AH&Z Associates www.ahzassociates.co.uk AIMs Education Limited www.aims-education.com Castlehill www.chglobal.co.uk Edify Group of Companies www.edify.pk Edvoy www.edvoy.com Future Advisers www.futureadvisers.co HECUK Limited www.hec-uk.com HR Consultants www.hrpakistan.com IAE Edu Net www.iaeglobal.co/our-offices IDP www.idp.com/pakistan JNS Limited www.jnsedu.com MR Consultants www.mrconsultants.org PFL Group International Limited www.preparationforlife.com Prospects Consulting www.prospects.pk StudyIn https://gostudyin.com/ Talib Consultancy (UK) Ltd www.tclglobal.co.uk/about Times Consultant www.timesconsultant.com UES Marketing Management EST www.us-pakistan.co.uk
IDP www.idp.com/global Studies Planet.com www.studiesplanet.com
Ltd (AECC) www.aeccglobal.com Bright Can-Achieve Ltd www.can-achieve.com GO Kampus www.gokampus.com IDP www.idp.com/philippines Yes Corporate Group PTY LTD www.yesedugroup.com.au
ELAB Poland www.elabedu.eu/pl IDP www.idp.com/global StudyIn https://gostudyin.com/
International Educational Consultants S.L.
www.iecformacion.com IDP www.idp.com/global London School of Excellence www.londonschoolofexcellence.com Markcon www.markcon.org Vermilion Group www.vermiliongroup.org
CastleHill www.chglobal.co.uk Education Basket www.education-basket.com Edvoy Education Ltd www.edvoy.com Global Study UK Ltd www.globalstudyuk.com HECUK Limited www.hec-uk.com IDP www.idp.com/middleeast Matglober Careers Private Limited www.matglober.com StudyIn https://gostudyin.com/ Talib Consultancy (UK) Ltd www.tclglobal.co.uk/about
Educativa/Edmundo www.edmun.do/ro IDP www.idp.com/global QS Student Apply www.topuniversities.com/events
Castlehill www.chglobal.co.uk Easy Apply www.easyapplyedu.com Education Basket www.education-basket.com Edvoy Education Ltd www.edvoy.com Global Study UK Ltd www.globalstudyuk.com HECUK Limited www.hec-uk.com IDP www.idp.com/saudiarabia Maj3 for IT Emonovo www.emonovo.com/en Markcon www.markcon.org Matglober Careers Private Limited www.matglober.com StudyIn https://gostudyin.com/ Talib Consultancy (UK) Ltd www.tclglobal.co.uk/about
Ltd (AECC) www.aeccglobal.com Index Education Service www.index-education.com IDP www.idp.com/global Jack Study Abroad Singapore (GL Zinc Pte) www.jackstudy.com The Right U www.therightu.com UniEd Smart Study Centre www.augstudy.com
Bright Can-Achieve Ltd www.can-achieve.com EDM Education Co.
Ltd www.edmuhak.com IAE Edu Net www.iaeglobal.co/our-offices IDP www.idp.com/global
www.iecformacion.com IDP www.idp.com/global Latin American Education www.lae-edu.com London School of Excellence www.londonschoolofexcellence.com Markcon www.markcon.org Studies Planet.com www.studiesplanet.com Tellus Intercultural Services Ltd www.uniworlduk.es Vermilion Group www.vermiliongroup.org
AH&Z Associates www.ahzassociates.co.uk Crizac Ltd www.crizac.co.uk Edroots International www.edroots.com Edvoy Education Ltd www.edvoy.com IDP www.srilanka.idp.com Leo global Services Ltd www.leoglobaloverseas.com London School of Excellence www.londonschoolofexcellence.com KC Overseas www.studies-overseas.com StudyIn https://gostudyin.com/
Crizac Ltd www.crizac.co.uk Global Education Alliance Ltd www.geaworld.org IAE Edu Net www.iaeglobal.co/our-offices IDP www.idp.com/global StudyIn https://gostudyin.com/ WIN Education Service Co Ltd www.win-ed.co.uk
IDP www.idp.com/global S Three Education Consultants www.s3education.com StudyIn https://gostudyin.com/ Uniserv Ltd www.uniserveducation.com World Student Advisors www.worldstudentadvisors.com
Ltd (AECC) www.aeccglobal.com BRIT Education UK www.brit-ed.com Edvoy Education Ltd www.edvoy.com IAE Edu Net www.iaeglobal.co/our-offices IDP www.idp.com/global Go Uni www.gouni.co.uk/th Hands On www.hands-on.co.th My Admissions Company Ltd www.myadmissions.net StudyIn https://gostudyin.com/ QS Student Apply https://studentapply.org/en WIN Education Service Co Ltd www.win-ed.co.uk
Akademiks Egitim Danismanlik www.academix.com.tr ATEC Yurtdisi Egitim Danismanligi www.atec.com.tr Atlas Private Educational Services www.atlasedu.net Eduworld Uluslararasi Hizmetler Yurtdisi (EDUWORLD) www.eduworld.com.tr IDP www.idp.com/global Soho UK Education www.sohoedu.com StudyIn https://gostudyin.com/ Egitimal Education Counselling Services www.egitimal.com
IDP www.idp.com/global S Three Education Consultants www.s3education.com/ Uniserv Ltd www.uniserveducation.com World Student Advisors www.worldstudentadvisors.com
AH&Z Associates www.ahzassociates.co.uk/ Amber Education Holding Limited www.amberedu.com/ Carry International www.carryeducation.com Cosmo Academic Ltd www.cosmo-edu.com Crizac Ltd www.crizac.co.uk Dongfang International Center for Educational www.cscdf.org Easy Apply www.easyapplyedu.com Edvoy Education Ltd www.edvoy.com Golden Rock Cultural Exchange Limited GU GRoup GoUni Ltd www.gouni.co.uk Hefei Ziyu Education Consulting Company IAE Edu Net www.iaeglobal.co/our-offices IDP www.idp.com/global Intergreat Education Group www.intergreat.com Index Education Service www.index-education.com IUP 2 LLP (INTO) https://www.intoglobal.com/ Kaplan International Colleges UK Limited www.kaplanpathways.com London School of Excellence www.londonschoolofexcellence.com Markcon www.markcon.org Offer4Uni Ltd www.offer4uni.com Pengfei Education and Immigration Consultancy Ltd www.pengfeiuk.com Peony Culture Communication Ltd www.peonyglobal.com QS Student Apply https://studentapply.org/en S Three Education Consultants www.s3education.com StudyIn https://gostudyin.com/ Studies Planet www.studiesplanet.com Suzhou Yimou Oversea Study Consulting
UK Offer International Education Limited www.ukoffer.co UKEC www.ukec.com Uniserv Ltd www.uniserveducation.com UVIC Limited www.uvic.co.uk WIN Education Service Co Ltd www.win-ed.co.uk W.L.Hillside Investment Ltd.
Ltd (AECC) www.aeccglobal.com Azent Education DMCC www.azent.com BCIE www.bcie.co.uk CastleHill Global Ltd www.chglobal.co.uk Easy Apply www.easyapplyedu.com Edroots International www.edroots.com Education Basket www.education-basket.com Edvoy Education Ltd www.edvoy.com Global Study UK Ltd www.globalstudyuk.com HECUK Limited www.hec-uk.com IDP www.idp.com/global JNS Limited www.jnsedu.com Maj3 for IT Emonovo www.emonovo.com/en Markcon www.markcon.org Matglober Careers Private Limited www.matglober.com PFL Group International Limited www.preparationforlife.com StudyIn https://gostudyin.com/ Talib Consultancy (UK) Ltd www.tclglobal.co.uk/about U E S Marketing Management EST www.us-pakistan.co.uk
Bright Can-Achieve Ltd https://edurecruit.io
Ltd (AECC) www.aeccglobal.com EasyGo Education Joint Stock Company www.easygoedu.vn Global Education Services Limited www.gse.edu.vn GO Kampus www.gokampus.com
IAE Edu Net www.iaeglobal.co/our-offices IDP www.idp.com/vietnam ISC Education Joint Stock Company www.isc.education Jack Study Abroad Singapore (GL Zinc Pte) www.jackstudy.com Vuong Anh Education (King Study) www.kingstudy.vn QS Student Apply https://studentapply.org/en StudyIn https://gostudyin.com/ Tri Cuong Investment and Educational Consultancy Company Limited www.indec.vn Vietint (Vietint Education Joint Stock Company) www.vietint.net Yes Corporate Group PTY LTD www.yesedugroup.com.au
IDP www.idp.com/global New Way Consultancy www.nwc.ac Talib Consultancy (UK) Ltd www.tclglobal.co.uk/about
Clarity Education www.clarityeducation.ng IDP www.idp.com/global World Student Advisors www.worldstudentadvisors.com

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/informationforofferholders/applyingforyourcasandvisa:
The majority of international students studying in the UK require a visa prior to arriving.
To help you prepare for your journey to the University of Lincoln, this page contains important information about the Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) request form, deposit payment and visa application process, and the help and support available.
If you are unsure whether you need a visa, please visit the UK Government website before reading the page below.
From 1 January 2021 EU nationals entering the UK may also need to apply for a student visa to commence their studies.
For more information about this please visit the Guidance for EU Students page and the Student Route page on the UK Government website.
All students who require a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) are advised to read the University’s CAS Issuance Policy before submitting a CAS request.
The information on this page is intended as a guide only and is subject to change.
Please refer to the Student Route Visa page on the UK Government website for the most up-to-date information prior to submitting your visa application.
We have created a step by step guide below to help you find out more information about how to apply for your CAS and Student visa.
New students can request a CAS from six months before the start of their course, providing the visa application will be made outside of the UK.
If the visa application will be made from inside the UK, a CAS can be requested up to three months before the course start date.
As part of the assessment of your CAS request form, you may be asked to attend a Pre-CAS interview .
To request a CAS you will need to:
Please note: if you pay any further fees after your CAS has been issued, please do not request that your CAS be updated.
Instead you should submit official proof of your payment with your visa application.
We strongly encourage applicants to complete the deposit payment and CAS request process as soon as they are eligible to do so.
This will help to ensure you have sufficient time to apply for your visa and to arrive in the UK before the start of your studies.
You may also be required to clear a pre-CAS interview before being issued with your CAS.
Before you pay your deposit and complete the CAS request form, please visit the UK Government website to find out more information regarding the different types of visa services that may be available and the cost.
It is important that you also carefully check the visa processing times in the country you are applying from.
The CAS deposit and request deadlines for September 2025 are listed below:
Please note that the above deadlines exclude applicants for BSc (Hons) Nursing (Registered Nurse – Adult).
Students that submit a CAS request and pay their deposit between 01/09/2025 – 15/09/2025 must provide evidence of a current matured bank statement and use priority visa services where available.
Visa processing times are outside of the University's control and the University therefore cannot guarantee that visa applications submitted by the suggested deadline will be processed in time for students to meet the enrolment deadline.
Students applying near the published deadlines are therefore advised to use priority visa services where available.
The CAS deposit and request deadline for January 2026 will be released in the coming months, please check back.
Once you have submitted your CAS request, the International Admissions Team will carry out final checks on the documents you have provided to ensure that they meet UKVI, as well as University, requirements.
If additional information is requested, please ensure that you provide this as quickly as possible to enable the International Admissions Team to assess your eligibility for a CAS.
As part of the application and CAS issuing process, the International Admissions team may ask you to consent to having your academic documents verified.
You will be asked to provide written consent.
How are documents verified?
The verification is carried out by QCAS – Qualification Checked At Source, in association with Qualification Check.
Once you have provided written consent, your transcript and certificate will be uploaded to the QCAS portal and QCAS will contact your institution directly for verification.
How long does verification take?
This really depends on how long it takes for your institution to respond to the request from QCAS.
The average is 7-10 working days.
What happens if I do not wish to give my consent?
If you do not wish to consent to having your documents verified, you can inform the International Admissions team and the team will withdraw your application.
If you have paid a CAS deposit, the University of Lincoln’s Admissions Terms and Conditions give details of the University’s refund policy.
As part of your visa application, you will need to show evidence that you have sufficient funds to cover the cost of the first year of your course, or the whole course if it is less than 12 months long.
You will also be required to show that you have enough funds to cover your living costs such as food and accommodation – this is often referred to as ‘maintenance’ by the UK Home Office.
Currently, the amount of money you need to show for your living costs is £1,023 per month of your course, up to a maximum of 9 months.
For visa applications made on or after the 2 nd January 2025 the amount of money you will need to show is increasing to £1,136 per month of your course, up to maximum of 9 months.
If you are eligible to bring dependants such as a partner or child with you to the UK, you will need to show an additional £680 a month for each of them, up to a maximum of £6,180.
The above amounts are set by the UK Government and are subject to change, so it is important that you carefully check the most up-to-date information prior to submitting your application.
If you are self-funding, you will need to provide evidence that you have held the required amount of money for at least 28 consecutive days before the date of your visa application.
This will usually be in the form of a bank statement, or a letter from your bank.
Detailed information regarding acceptable forms of evidence can be found by reading the Student Visa policy guidance document on the UK Government website.
Your bank statement must be in your name, or in one or both of your parent’s or guardian’s names.
You can use more than one bank account if you wish.
If you use a parent’s bank account as evidence, you must also provide a birth certificate or household register showing the relationship between you and a letter from your parent giving you permission to use the money in the account.
If your funds are not in British pounds (GBP) then you should use the OANDA currency converter to show how much your money is worth on the date of your visa application.
If you have an official financial sponsor, you will be required to provide a letter from your sponsor confirming this.
If your sponsor is not covering all your maintenance requirements, you must show that you have the remaining funds yourself (see above).
Further information regarding who can be an official financial sponsor and the details they must provide can be found by reading the Student Visa policy guidance .
In addition to preparing your financial evidence, you will also be required to submit supporting documents.
This includes:
Additional supporting documents that maybe required include:
Depending on your country of residence, you may be required to have a tuberculosis (TB) test.
Further information regarding TB tests can be found on the UK Government’s Tuberculosis tests for visa applicants page .
It is important that your supporting documents are originals as copies are not accepted.
If the documents are not in English or Welsh, you will be required to provide an official translation.
After you have prepared your supporting documents and financial evidence, you will need to complete a Student visa application .
As part of your application, you will be required to pay a visa fee in addition to the Immigration Health Surcharge.
You can apply for your visa no more than 3 months before your course start date, and no more than 6 months after you get your CAS.
The time it takes to process visa applications can vary so we recommend that you visit the UK Government website to see how long this is likely to take.
As part of the online visa application, you will be required to book an appointment to attend a Visa Application Centre in order to submit your documents.
You will also be required to have your biometric information taken such as your fingerprints and a photograph.
You may also be asked to attend a Credibility Interview.
After your Visa Application Centre appointment, you will receive a decision letter from UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) regarding the status of your visa application.
If your application has been approved, you will be issued with a visa sticker (called a vignette) in your passport.
The vignette will be valid for 30 days to enable you to travel to the UK.
It is important that you carefully check that your details are correct on the vignette and your decision letter as soon as you receive it.
As part of your visa application, you may be asked to attend a credibility interview to ensure that you intend to travel to the UK for genuine reasons.
Interviews may take place face-to-face, by telephone or via a video link, and you must attend if asked to do so or your visa application could be rejected.
If you are called for an interview, you may be asked questions about:
The interviews may take place face-to-face or by telephone or via a video link.
If you are asked to attend an interview, you must do so.
If you do not attend without providing a reasonable explanation this will result in your visa application being rejected.
Please ensure that you inform us of any visa refusals that you have previously received when you submit your application, and provide a copy of your refusal document(s).
Please note that this requirement is not limited to refusals for the UK.
If you subsequently submit a CAS request form, the refusal documentation will be assessed in order to determine whether the University is able to issue you with a CAS.
If you have previously had a visa refused on credibility grounds, or because it was claimed that you had provided fraudulent documents, it is unlikely that the University will be able to issue you with a CAS.
However, if you successfully appealed the refusal decision, then the University may approve your CAS request.
As stated in the University’s Student Admissions Terms and Conditions (PDF) , if it is discovered that your application contains material inaccuracies or fraudulent information, or that significant information has been omitted from your application form (for example, previous visa refusals), the University may withdraw or amend your Offer, or terminate your registration at the University.
In such circumstances, any deposit paid by you will be retained by the University.
Once you have received your visa, you will need to arrange your travel to the UK and ensure you arrive in Lincoln by the start date displayed on your Confirmation of Acceptance of Study (CAS) document.
When you arrive in the UK, you will be required to show the vignette and your decision letter (mentioned in step 4) to immigration officials at the border.
Students will be required to show their eVisa upon enrolment for verification by the University.
Find out more about the new eVisa on the UK Government website.
To help you prepare for your travel to the UK, our pre-departure webpages contain lots of helpful information and advice, including what to pack, how to get to the UK, and what to expect in your first few weeks.
The UK Home Office permits universities to sponsor postgraduate students to study a part-time programme in the UK, subject to meeting all eligibility criteria.
Whilst the UK Home Office offers a part-time study route, the University of Lincoln have decided not to sponsor visas for students wishing to study a part-time programme.
When this route was launched the University thoroughly considered the requirements and conditions of the route and felt that it is very restrictive for students.
When studying on a part time programme with this visa:
If you are currently enrolled with us and wish to switch to part-time study, the University may consider this on an exceptional case-by-case basis.
Please note that you would be required to apply for a new visa to move to a part-time programme.
If you believe this is an option you would like to consider please contact the International Advice Team by email at internationaladvice@lincoln.ac.uk in the first instance.
You can also email visaextension@lincoln.ac.uk for information about how to apply for the new visa if your request is approved.
The Student Admissions Terms and Conditions explain the circumstances in which your CAS deposit can be refunded.
To request a CAS Deposit Refund, please log on to the University’s online application system, using your application ID and the password you registered with, and access the ‘My Details' function, in the 'Forms' tab; https://lncn.ac/oneuni .
Once your form has been submitted, it will be directed to the appropriate department for assessment.
We aim to initiate CAS deposit refunds within five working days following an approved request.
Please note that during busy periods this may take longer than usual, and this timeframe does not account for bank processing.
The University of Lincoln's International Advice team is here to help answer any questions or queries you may have about the visa application process.
Visit our Bringing your Dependent to the UK webpage for further guidance on bringing dependents with you during your studies.
Bringing Dependants
If you are a continuing student and need more guidance on applying for any visa extensions before your current leave expires, visit our dedicated Continuing Students and Your Visa webpage.
Continuing Students

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/informationforofferholders/preparingforyourjourneytolincoln/arrivalsguide:
We are looking forward to welcoming you to our student community and for you to experience what makes Lincoln a special place to live and learn.
On this page, you can find out more information to help you prepare for your journey to the UK and to Lincoln, alongside advice and tips on settling in during your first few weeks as a student.
We encourage you to read the information on this page carefully before you travel and to let us know if you have any questions.
As part of your preparations for travelling to the UK, you will need to think carefully about what to pack in your suitcase and what to bring with you.
It is also important to think about what is necessary, as the space in your suitcase will be limited and it may be easier to buy items such as toiletries and cooking equipment when you arrive in Lincoln.
As part of your hand luggage, it is important that you include essential documents which you may be asked to provide at the border when you arrive in the UK.
There are certain goods that passengers are not allowed to bring into the UK.
Detailed information regarding what you can and cannot bring to the UK can be found on the UK Government website .
One of our international students, Aarti, has created a video to help you understand what to pack.
Check it out below:
September 2025 Intake New students will need to arrive at the University of Lincoln before the start of  Welcome Week on Monday 22 September .
From our Students’ Union sports and societies fairs, to tours of our campus and city, and workshops on securing a part-time job, during Welcome Week there are a variety of optional talks, activities, and events to help you connect with fellow students and settle in at Lincoln.
There will also be a number of compulsory sessions that you will need to attend.
This includes our International Student Welcome and your course induction, which will provide the opportunity to meet some of the colleagues that will support you throughout your journey here.
Students joining us in September will be able to access their timetables for Welcome Week shortly.
January 2026 Intake
Further details regarding Welcome Week for students beginning their studies in January 2026 will be published during the summer.
Before you travel to the UK you must ensure you have arranged suitable accommodation and that you are able to move into your room when you arrive.
Arranging your accommodation prior to travelling to the UK is very important, as finding accommodation on the day you arrive could be very expensive, and there may not be any availability nearby campus.
We recommend contacting your accommodation provider before you begin your journey to let them know your expected arrival time, and to discuss how to collect your keys.
You should also ask your accommodation provider to confirm what items are in your room.
This will help you to plan ahead and to create a list of essential items you may need to buy when you arrive, such as a duvet or cutlery etc.
Living Away from Campus If you are planning to live outside of campus, you will need to research how you will travel to the University on a regular basis and how much this will cost.
This is important as your timetable may include classes that you must attend on campus up to five days each week.
If you hold a Student Visa, having a high level of attendance and engagement is very important and you will be expected to take part in all timetabled classes.
Failure to maintain a high level of attendance will place your visa at risk and could also affect your eligibility to apply for the Graduate Route at the end of your course.
Further information regarding privately rented accommodation and living away from campus can be found in the Accommodation Information for International Applicants page.
When you arrange your flight ticket, you will need to consider which airport to fly to here in the UK, and how you will you travel from the airport to Lincoln when you arrive.
There are more than 20 international airports in the UK, and one of the most popular options for international students is London Heathrow.
Heathrow is the UK’s largest airport and is located close by to London.
The journey time from Heathrow Airport to Lincoln is around 2 hours and 50 minutes by car.
Birmingham Airport and Manchester Airport are also popular options for students.
The journey time from Birmingham Airport to Lincoln is around 1 hour and 34 minutes by car, and from Manchester Airport to Lincoln is around 2 hours and 14 minutes away by car.
Please be aware that if you are travelling by public transport the journey time from the airport to Lincoln could be longer.
When you arrive in the UK, you will need to show your identity document (such as a passport) and any additional documentation that is requested at border control.
We also recommend carrying the bank statements and qualifications submitted as part of your visa application.
To find out more information regarding the documents that you may need to present and what to expect when you arrive in the UK, please visit the UK Government website.
Once you’ve arrived in the UK you will need to travel to Lincoln to start your studies with us.
To help you plan your journey from the airport to Lincoln we recommend visiting our travelling to Lincoln page.
The page includes lots of helpful information regarding travel by road and train.
The page also contains important maps of the city of Lincoln and our campus.
During your first few weeks in Lincoln there are a few important things we recommend doing to help you settle into your new home from home.
To help you prepare, Diana shares her experience of settling into life in Lincoln and what to expect in the video to the right.
To find out more information on downloading the UniLincoln App, please visit the Digital Technologies 'How to' webpage.
All students should aim to arrive and enrol during Welcome Week.
This is to ensure the best student experience by taking part in the Welcome Week activities.
Please note that enrolment can only be completed once in the UK, therefore, you must allow time for this before the start date of your course.
Detailed information regarding the enrolment process, and a step by step guide, can be found on our website.
Our Welcome Week site is designed to provide all of the essential information you need to know, to help you plan your first few weeks at University.
This includes an overview of the exciting events taking place, your Welcome Week timetable, and a range of helpful information about enrolment.
Students joining us in September will be able to access the Welcome Week website later this year.
After arriving in the UK, you should register with a local doctor (known as a 'GP' or General Practitioner) as soon as possible, in case you need medical advice at any point during your studies.
Students have a choice of several different GP surgeries within Lincoln city centre, however many students choose to register with our on-campus Health Centre as the most convenient option.
When registering with a GP surgery, you will need to take the following documents with you:
GP surgeries with online registration may ask you to produce these documents before they can complete your registration.
After registering, you may be asked to see a doctor or nurse practitioner straight away.
This is an initial health check and a chance for you to meet your GP or Nurse Practitioner.
This is a good time to discuss any medical conditions you have or any current medication you are taking.
Further information regarding accessing health care services as an international student can be found by visiting the UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) website.
The Immigration Health Surcharge
Individuals who hold a visa may be required to pay the Immigration Health Surcharge (IHS) in order to be eligible to access healthcare in the UK.
This is done as part of the visa application form.
If you are unsure if you are eligible for healthcare in the UK, we recommend you contact the University’s International Advice team .
Dental Care (Teeth)
Once you have registered with a GP you can also register with an NHS dentist.
Further information regarding accessing dental care as an international student can be found by visiting the UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) website.
Optical Care (Eyes)
In the UK, eye care is provided by opticians.
To purchase spectacles or contact lenses you will need a British prescription, which you get from the optician following a sight test.
Sight tests can be arranged by contacting the optician directly.
The cost of frames, lenses and contact lenses varies.
Visit the UKCISA website for information about eye tests and eye care provided in the UK.
Health Care Mobile App
You may find it helpful to download the ‘ ESC (Expert Self Care) Student ’ health app to your mobile.
This app has developed by medical doctors, together with students.
You can find answers to questions about:
When you arrive in Lincoln you will need to open a UK bank account, and we have provided some guidance below to help support you.
It is advisable to check in your home country whether your current bank card can be used in the UK, or whether you can apply for a card that can be used while you are waiting to open a new UK bank account.
How to Apply for a UK Bank Account
The documents you need to open a bank account may vary depending on which bank you decide to open an account with, however usually you will be expected to provide:
How to get a Bank Letter
Please submit a request for a Bank Letter Certificate of Study online through your OneUni account.
You will find the Student Support Letter Request option on the ‘support’ tab.
Please ensure your Permanent Home and Term Time addresses are correct on your OneUni account as these are the addresses which will show on your letter(s).
Banks in Lincoln
There are a variety of banks in the UK to choose from, each offering a range of services.
However, it can be helpful to choose a bank which has a branch nearby to where you live.
Before you apply for a bank account use the internet to check:
Banking Terminology
Here are a few banking terms and their definitions to help you:
During the first few weeks of University, you may be required to use new online systems for the first time.
Our helpful ICT guides can provide support with everything from understanding multi-factor authentication and accessing your University email address, to setting up a UK phone number and learning how to use Office 365, Microsoft Teams, and OneDrive.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/afghanistan:
The University of Lincoln is home to a thriving community of students from across the world and we are delighted that you are considering studying with us.
To help you prepare for your exciting journey to Lincoln, this page contains important information regarding the entrance requirements you will need to meet, the University’s international scholarships, and submitting your application to study with us.
You can also find guidance on how to access support from our International Officers and Global Representatives throughout the admissions process.
Before you begin your studies at the University of Lincoln, you will need to meet our academic and English language entrance requirements.
The sections below contain a summary of the qualifications that we accept.
A full-time Bachelor’s degree programme in the UK typically takes three years to complete.
Students from Afghanistan require one of the following qualifications for entry into year one of a Bachelor’s degree:
Entry requirements may vary depending on the programme, and specific information can be found on the individual programme pages.
The University of Lincoln provides a range of degree preparation programmes to help students to qualify for entry onto an undergraduate Bachelor’s degree.
If you are unable to meet the entrance requirements for a Bachelor’s degree, you may be eligible to join our International Year One programme .
The entry requirements for our degree preparation programmes can be found on the Degree Preparation Entry Requirements webpage.
Depending on your academic background and intended course of study, it may be possible to apply for advanced entry into level two, or three of a University of Lincoln Bachelor’s degree programme.
For more information, please contact the International Admissions Team at intadmissions@lincoln.ac.uk .
A full-time postgraduate taught (Master’s degree) programme in the UK typically takes one year to complete.
Applicants must have completed a Bachelor’s degree, or an equivalent qualification, at a recognised institution.
Applicants will also need to obtain a specific grade/classification in order to be accepted onto the programme.
Our programme webpages contain specific information regarding the grade/classification we require.
The requirements may range from a first class honour’s degree to a lower second-class honours.
The table below outlines what we deem to be an equivalent grade/classification in Afghanistan.
If you do not meet the entry criteria for a postgraduate degree programme, you may be eligible to join a Pre-Master’s programme at the University of Lincoln.
Students from Afghanistan require a recognised first degree, or HND for entry onto our Pre-Master’s Business programme.
The University of Lincoln offers a variety of postgraduate research programmes.
To find out more information about our research programmes and the entrance requirements you will need to meet, please visit the individual programme webpages .
In addition to meeting the academic requirements outlined above, applicants will also be expected to meet the University's English Language requirements.
As a guide, the majority of our programmes require an IELTS score of 6.0, 6.5 or 7.0.
To find out more about the specific English Language requirements you will need to meet, please visit our programme webpages .
Please visit our English language requirements page for further details regarding alternative English language qualifications and tests we accept.
To help support students from outside of the UK, we are delighted to offer a number of scholarships which range from £1,000 up to the value of 50% of tuition fees.
To find out more about our range of scholarships, including eligibility requirements and how to apply, please visit our scholarships webpage.
Our dedicated International Enquiries team is here to help answer any questions you may have about studying at the University of Lincoln.
Email us at internationalenquiries@lincoln.ac.uk, or use our online enquiry form to speak to a member of the team.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/algeria:
Students from Algeria require one of the following qualifications for entry into year one of a Bachelor’s degree:
The table below outlines what we deem to be an equivalent grade/classification in Algeria.
Students from Algeria require a recognised first degree, or HND for entry onto our Pre-Master’s Business programme.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/australia:
Students from Australia require one of the following qualifications for entry into year one of a Bachelor’s degree:
The table below outlines what we deem to be an equivalent grade/classification in Australia.
Students from Australia require a recognised first degree for entry onto our Pre-Master’s Business programme.
As an alternative to IELTS, we also accept the English language within Provincial Secondary/Senior School Certificate or Diploma at grade 50%, for programmes that require and IELTS of 6.0.
The above qualification should usually have been completed no more than 5 years before enrolling at the University of Lincoln.
However, this requirement will usually be waived for applicants who achieved the required High School English grade, and subsequently completed a degree in their home country that was taught fully in English.
An official letter from the previous institution, confirming that the degree was taught in English, may be required.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/austria:
Students from Austria require one of the following qualifications for entry into year one of a Bachelor’s degree:
The table below outlines what we deem to be an equivalent grade/classification in Austria.
Students from Austria require a recognised first degree, or The Diplom and Diplomprüfungszeugnis for entry onto our Pre-Master’s Business programme.
As an alternative to IELTS, we also accept the Reifeprüfung / Matura at grade 2, for programmes requiring an IELTS of 6.0.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/azerbaijan:
Students from Azerbaijan require one of the following qualifications for entry into year one of a Bachelor’s degree:
The table below outlines what we deem to be an equivalent grade/classification in Azerbaijan.
Students from Azerbaijan require a recognised first degree, or HND for entry onto our Pre-Master’s Business programme.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/bahrain:
Students from Bahrain require one of the following qualifications for entry into year one of a Bachelor’s degree:
The entry requirements for our degree preparation programmes can be found on the Degree Preparation Entry Requirements webpage.
The table below outlines what we deem to be an equivalent grade/classification in Bahrain.
Equivalent Bachelor’s Degree Classification (Bahrain)
Students from Bahrain require a recognised first degree for entry onto our Pre-Master’s Business programme.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/bangladesh:
Students from Bangladesh require one of the following qualifications for entry into year one of a Bachelor’s degree:
If you are an HSC student, you will require an International Foundation Year/International Year One programme.
Please get in touch with us to discuss.
BA (Hons) Global Business Top-Up Programme
Our BA (Hons) Global Business is a top-up programme designed for international students moving into their second or third year.
To join Year 2, students from Bangladesh must have completed 2 years of a 4-year degree with a minimum grade of 60%.
To join Year 3, students from Bangladesh must have completed 3 years of a 4-year degree with a minimum grade of 60%.
The table below outlines what we deem to be an equivalent grade/classification in Bangladesh.
*Bachelor degree (studied for a minimum of 4-years)/Master’s degree following a 3-year degree from a recognised institution
Students from Bangladesh require a recognised first degree with 45%, or diploma with 55% for entry onto our Pre-Master’s Business programme.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/belgium:
Students from Belgium require one of the following qualifications for entry into year one of a Bachelor’s degree:
The table below outlines what we deem to be an equivalent grade/classification in Belgium.
Students from Belgium require a recognised first degree for entry onto our Pre-Master’s Business programme.
As an alternative to IELTS, we also accept:
The above qualifications should usually have been completed no more than 5 years before enrolling at the University of Lincoln.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/botswana:
Students from Botswana require one of the following qualifications for entry into year one of a Bachelor’s degree:
The table below outlines what we deem to be an equivalent grade/classification in Botswana.
Students from Botswana require a recognised first degree, or HND for entry onto our Pre-Master’s Business programme.
As an alternative to IELTS, we also accept the Botswana General Certificate of Secondary Education Examination (BGCSE) grade C in English language, for programmes requiring and IELTS of 6.0.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/brazil:
Students from Brazil require one of the following qualifications for entry into year one of a Bachelor’s degree:
The table below outlines what we deem to be an equivalent grade/classification in Brazil.
Equivalent Bachelor’s Degree Classification (Brazil)
If you do not meet the entry criteria for a postgraduate degree programme, you may be eligible to join a Pre-Master’s programme with the University of Lincoln’s International College.
Students from Brazil require a recognised first degree for entry onto our Pre-Master’s Business programme.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/brunei:
The University of Lincoln is home to a thriving community of students from across the world and we are delighted that you are considering studying with us.
Students from Brunei require one of the following qualifications for entry into year one of a Bachelor’s degree:
The table below outlines what we deem to be an equivalent grade/classification in Brunei.
Students from Brunei require a recognised first degree for entry onto our Pre-Master’s Business programme.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/cambodia:
Students from Cambodia require one of the following qualifications for entry into year one of a Bachelor’s degree:
The table below outlines what we deem to be an equivalent grade/classification in Cambodia.
Equivalent Classification (Cambodia)
Students from Cambodia require a recognised first degree for entry onto our Pre-Master’s Business programme.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/cameroon:
Students from Cameroon require one of the following qualifications for entry into year one of a Bachelor’s degree:
The table below outlines what we deem to be an equivalent grade/classification in Cameroon.
Students from Cameroon require a recognised first degree, or HND for entry onto our Pre-Master’s Business programme.
As an alternative to IELTS, we also accept the General Certificate of Education (GCE) Ordinary Level with grade C in English language, for programmes requiring an IELTS 6.0.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/canada:
As a smaller city, Lincoln gives you the privilege of exploring all of its natural beauty and the amenities it has to offer.
There are many wonderful things to do here, some of my favorites include walking the canals and nature parks in and surrounding the city.
During my time at the University so far, I have enjoyed meeting new people, as well as connecting with other Canadians in my class.
Hannah Guy
MSc Physiotherapy (Pre-registration) Student, Canada
Students from Canada require one of the following qualifications for entry into year one of a Bachelor’s degree:
The table below outlines what we deem to be an equivalent grade/classification in Canada.
Students from Canada require a recognised first degree for entry onto our Pre-Master’s Business programme.
As an alternative to IELTS, we also accept the High School Diploma or regional equivalent qualification with a grade C for programmes requiring an IELTS of 6.0.
Most Canadian students are self-funded, however some students are eligible to pay their tuition fees with a Canadian student loan or a Provincial or territorial programme loan.
Alternatively, you may choose to take out a private loan to pay for your studies in the UK.
For more information on funding your studies through a student or private loan, please visit the Government of Canada website.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/chile:
Students from Chile require one of the following qualifications for entry into year one of a Bachelor’s degree:
The table below outlines what we deem to be an equivalent grade/classification in Chile.
Equivalent Bachelor’s Degree Classification (Chile)
Students from Chile require a recognised first degree for entry onto our Pre-Master’s Business programme.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/china:
My experience at the University of Lincoln has been nothing short of exceptional.
From the professional supervision I received from my PhD programme in Computer Science, to the vibrant and inclusive community on campus, the University of Lincoln has provided me with the perfect environment to pursue my academic and professional goals.
Yan Wen
MPhil/PhD Computer Science student, China
Students from China require one of the following qualifications for entry into year one of a Bachelor’s degree:
To join Year 2, students from China must have completed an SQA Advanced Diploma with an overall average of CC.
To join Year 3, students from China must have completed one of the following qualifications:
The table below outlines what we deem to be an equivalent grade/classification in China.
Equivalent Bachelor’s Degree Classification (China)
Students from China require one of the following for entry onto our Pre-Master’s Business programme.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/colombia:
Students from Colombia require one of the following qualifications for entry into year one of a Bachelor’s degree:
The table below outlines what we deem to be an equivalent grade/classification in Colombia.
Equivalent Bachelor’s Degree Classification (Colombia)
Students from Colombia require a recognised first degree for entry onto our Pre-Master’s Business programme.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/cyprus:
Students from Cyprus require one of the following qualifications for entry into year one of a Bachelor’s degree:
The table below outlines what we deem to be an equivalent grade/classification in Cyprus.
Students from Cyprus require a recognised first degree for entry onto our Pre-Master’s Business programme.
As an alternative to IELTS, we also accept the Apolytirio Lykeiou at grade 15 for programmes requiring an IELTS of 6.0.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/czechrepublic:
Students from the Czech Republic require one of the following qualifications for entry into year one of a Bachelor’s degree:
The table below outlines what we deem to be an equivalent grade/classification in the Czech Republic.
Students from the Czech Republic require a recognised first degree for entry onto our Pre-Master’s Business programme.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/denmark:
Students from Denmark require one of the following qualifications for entry into year one of a Bachelor’s degree:
The table below outlines what we deem to be an equivalent grade/classification in Denmark.
Students from Denmark require a recognised first degree for entry onto our Pre-Master’s Business programme.
As an alternative to IELTS, we also accept the Bevis for Højere Forberedelseseksamen (HF) at grade 7 for programmes requiring an IELTS of 6.0.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ecuador:
Students from Ecuador require one of the following qualifications for entry into year one of a Bachelor’s degree:
The table below outlines what we deem to be an equivalent grade/classification in Ecuador.
Students from Ecuador require a recognised first degree for entry onto our Pre-Master’s Business programme.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/egypt:
I would highly encourage any prospective student to apply to the University of Lincoln.
It offers a world-class education, a supportive academic environment, and excellent research opportunities.
Academic staff are dedicated and approachable, ensuring that students receive the guidance they need to succeed.
The University also fosters innovation and critical thinking, which are essential for career development.
Saddam Bekhet
Lincoln Alumnus and Associate Professor at South Valley University, Egypt
Students from Egypt require one of the following qualifications for entry into year one of a Bachelor’s degree:
The table below outlines what we deem to be an equivalent grade/classification in Egypt.
Students from Egypt require a recognised first degree with a GPA of 2.0 for entry onto our Pre-Master’s Business programme.

New sentences found on https://lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/estonia:
Students from Estonia require one of the following qualifications for entry into year one of a Bachelor’s degree:
The table below outlines what we deem to be an equivalent grade/classification in Estonia.
Students from Estonia require a recognised first degree for entry onto our Pre-Master’s Business programme.
As an alternative to IELTS, we also accept the European Baccalaureate Diploma at grade 7, for programmes requiring an IELTS of 6.0.