# Site: https://www.lse.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 488
# --------

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk:
Get free email updates from LSE to find out about social science in action, events, blogs, research news and more

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/alumni-friends-and-partners:
Browser does not support script.
LSE is proud to serve, engage and work in partnership with our alumni, friends and partners who share our vision of understanding the causes of things for the betterment of society.
Find out the latest achievements from your alumni community
A record of alumni and staff who have passed away
Get involved and support our community
Alumni community stories and news in London and around the world
Latest LSE research and philanthropic news
Your home for alumni careers and professional development at LSE
+44 (0)20 7955 7569
alumni@lse.ac.uk
LSE Philanthropy and Global Engagement, LSE, Houghton Street, WC2A 2AE, London, UK
London School of Economics and Political Science
Houghton Street
London
WC2A 2AE UK
LSE is a private company limited by guarantee, registration number 70527.
+44 (0)20 7405 7686
Campus map
Contact us
Cookie settings
Cookie policy
Report a page
Accessibility Statement
Terms of use
Privacy policy
Modern Slavery Statement
© LSE 2025

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse:
LSE offers a range of different programmes, from undergraduate and graduate study, to executive education, distance learning, language study, summer school and study abroad options.
Find out more about student life at LSE
Explore our events and virtual resources
Book a campus tour and find out about individual visits
Stay up to date with our latest events and news for prospective students and offer holders
Discover LSE's world of knowledge and opportunities
Follow us for a taste of our innovative research and diverse student community
Hear the latest from LSE about the programmes you're interested in
Contact the team with your questions about applying to or studying at LSE
Speak to the team for answers to your questions

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Undergraduate:
LSE offers a unique opportunity to study the social sciences at a university with a worldwide academic reputation.
The information you find in this section is designed to help you at every stage of our Undergraduate admission process.
Your personal statement, applying via UCAS, the application timeline and more

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Graduate:
The information you find in this section is designed to help you at every stage of our Graduate admission process.
Use this system to submit your application form and all your supporting documents

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/uolip:
Your browser doesn't support HTML video.
Here is a link to the video instead.
.
LSE partners with University of London (UoL) to deliver a suite of degrees, diplomas and certificates.
Learn online or locally at a recognised teaching centre near you.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/executive-education:
LSE delivers world-class, transformative executive education courses that empower leaders and organisations with cutting-edge strategies and big-picture thinking.
Every in-person and online course we deliver benefits directly from the award-winning work of our acclaimed faculty, our globally renowned research centres and our deep ties and collaboration with industry, government and policymakers worldwide.
With LSE Executive Education, you build the multidisciplinary understanding and the future-resilient skills to deliver impact as enduring as it is immediate.
At LSE, we believe a multidisciplinary approach is key to navigating today's fast changing world.
Our portfolio is designed to address the biggest issues facing global business today, while leveraging the research and expertise of LSE faculty.
Strong leadership is vital to fostering a culture of innovation.
Our business management programmes equip leadership teams with the ability to find new ways of reaching organisational objectives.
Embracing new technologies is essential for businesses to stay competitive.
Our Data and Technology programmes empower companies to take an insight-led approach to their strategies.
LSE is globally recognised in the fields of Economics, Finance and Accounting.
Our programmes are crucial for financial professionals to maintain their competitive advantage.
LSE’s Department of Health Policy applies rigorous social science research to emerging national and global health and social care challenges.
Unlike other business schools, our influence not only spans global business but also extends far into government all over the world.
40 world leaders have taught or studied at LSE.
Whether you are an individual looking to progress in your career, a senior executive wanting to hone your leadership style, or an organisation seeking to enhance your in-house expertise, LSE Executive Education offers dynamic and flexible learning solutions to suit your needs.
Unlock your potential with LSE's Executive Education courses for individuals
Unlock the full potential of your teams with LSE
Join an exclusive professional network and unlock benefits that support your career and lifelong learning journey
Our portfolio is designed to suit individual learning styles and needs, whether you are looking for the flexibility of learning in your own time, or looking for an in person experience that will broaden your network,.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/executive-education/online-learning:
LSE's online courses make our world-leading teaching and research accessible to a global audience.
We provide a comprehensive portfolio of online programmes to equip you and your organisation with the knowledge and skills to advance in an ever-changing world.
Taking place across 6 months, Online Career Accelerators provide the skills to meet the demands of the digital economy, developed in collaboration with leading technology companies.
Taking place over 6 to 10 weeks, Online Certificate Courses provide the ultimate flexibility to gain expert knowledge and skills to enhance your career, across a diverse portfolio of subjects.
Taught over 3 weeks, Online Masterclasses broaden understanding of specialised subjects by offering the opportunity to gain insight into the expertise of world-leading faculty.
LSE's Self-Paced Programmes offer flexible online learning with no fixed schedules.
These courses provide an ideal academic foundation, perfectly preparing you for deeper engagement with LSE Online's advanced offerings.
Go deeper with your learning and earn a Certificate of Professional Advancement with three courses from our Online Certificate Course portfolio over a two-year period.
Learn at your own pace, from world-leading faculty and join an exclusive global network of engaged and like-minded professionals committed to lifelong learning and benefit from discounted rates on your learning.
Receive updates about new courses, faculty insights, upcoming events and more

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/executive-masters-degrees:
LSE executive master's degrees allow mid-career and senior professionals like you to continue working while learning the skills you need to succeed.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/summer-schools/Summer-School:
Applications for Summer School 2026 will open in late November.
Please sign-up to our mailing list for updates.
Sign up to our mailing list for updates on Summer School 2026.
Discover what your future holds at LSE Summer School
Find out more about how and what you’ll learn
Our faculty are experts in their fields and teach with enthusiasm and contemporary relevance
Extracurricular activities to enhance your career
'Spark' is our professional skills programme designed to boost your career prospects
Discover London and beyond with life-long friends
Explore London and meet your fellow students
Applications for Summer School 2025 are closed
Get answers to any questions you may have about LSE Summer School
Stay in the heart of London with a variety of accommodation options, perfect for connecting with fellow Summer School students and exploring the city
Find out more about upcoming public events by LSE Summer School
Gain a global perspective, achieve academic excellence and develop your leadership skills
Fees and payment
Information on payments and withdrawal policies
Credit and certification
Earn credit towards your degree with LSE Summer School
Assessment
Course structure, exams and credits work at Summer School
Before going to summer school, I hadn’t decided on my major for my degree and master's course, but I have now found my real study interests here.
Rinko Matsunobu, Japan Musashi University, Japan
Discover why 98% of students would recommend LSE Summer School
WC2A 2AE
UK

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/study-abroad:
LSE has a truly global outlook.
Explore these pages to learn more about our study abroad opportunities for inbound and outbound students, including the General Course and GO LSE exchanges.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/meet-visit-and-discover-LSE:
Discover more about being an LSE student: attend an open day or campus tour, meet us in a city near you, or watch a webinar or video
Follow them during their studies at LSE
What's it like to study in London?
The benefits and how to live economically in the city
Get answers to your questions about applying to and studying at LSE
Speak to our team for answers to your questions

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/programmes/search-courses:
Showing 1-12 results of 260

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students:
With students from over 140 different countries and 40% of staff from outside of the UK, LSE is a highly diverse community.
This diversity encourages social, economic and political discussions from a global perspective, informed by the different experiences, views and beliefs of our staff and student body.
Country-specific information

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Undergraduate/fees-and-funding:
Every undergraduate student is charged a fee each year of their programme.
The tuition fee covers registration and examination fees payable to the School, lectures, classes and individual supervision, lectures given at other colleges under intercollegiate arrangements and, under current arrangements, membership of the Students' Union.
It does not cover living costs or travel or fieldwork.
Tuition fees are fixed each Spring for the following academic year only, and are published in the Table of Fees .
All queries regarding your tuition fees and payment of tuition fees are dealt with by the LSE Fees Office .
On receipt of your UCAS form the School carries out an assessment of your fee status determining the amount you are likely to pay at Registration.
This decision is based on guidelines provided by the Department of Education: Education (Fees and Awards) Regulations 2007.
Further information on fee status classification
We estimate that you should allow approximately £1,300 to £1,500 per month for all living expenses, including accommodation, travel, food, laundry, study costs, and other personal expenses.
This will vary depending on your lifestyle and requirements, so it's important you do your own research.
Please note that if you will be applying for a visa, you will have to provide evidence of sufficient funds, and these amounts may vary.
More details on living costs and making a budget .
Loans for tuition fees and maintenance support are available for eligible students from the UK government.
Depending on your circumstances, you may also be eligible for additional financial support, such as the Disabled Students' Allowance, Childcare Grant, Parents' Learning Allocance and Adult Dependents Grant.
For further information, and to apply, students should visit the website of the relevant funding authority for the nation they normally reside in:
Student Finance England
Student Finance Northern Ireland
Student Awards Agency for Scotland
Student Finance Wales
The LSE Bursary is available for Home fee status LSE students and awarded according to household income.
The LSE Discretionary Bursary is awarded based on exceptional financial circumstances.
More information about LSE Bursaries .
Each year LSE awards a number of scholarships, funded by private donations.
The number, value, eligibility criteria and type of scholarships vary from year to year.
More information about LSE scholarships
The LSE Accommodation Bursary is designed to encourage students from lower-income households to apply for accommodation in halls.
Available for UK nationals, the value of the award will vary depending on the number of recipients and financial need.
LSE recognises that care experienced and estranged students may face challenges in accessing and studying in higher education.
The Care Experienced and Estranged Student Bursary is available to provide additional financial support to eligible students.
The School provides generous financial support, in the form of bursaries and scholarships to Overseas fee status students.
More information about LSE financial support for Overseas students .
LSE is offering LSE Access to Education Scholarships offers support for tuition fee and living costs for:
LSE's year long study abroad programme allows student from overseas universities to spend a full academic year at LSE.
Known as The General Course it offers more than 300 available courses covering the full range of social science subjects.
More information about the fees and the funding available for this one year undergraduate programme can be found here .
Share

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Graduate/fees-and-funding:
Each year LSE offers generous scholarships to its graduate students.
There are also funding opportunities from external organisations, research councils and governments around the world.
Every graduate student is charged a fee for their programme.
If you receive an offer, you will be informed of the relevant tuition fee amount in your offer letter.
Tuition fee amounts
Tuition fee amounts are listed on the individual programme pages.
The table of fees shows the latest tuition amounts for all programmes offered by the School.
Fee status
In some cases the amount of tuition fees you will need to pay, and any financial support you are eligible for, will depend on whether you are classified as a Home or Overseas student, otherwise known as your fee status.
LSE assesses your fee status based on guidelines provided by the Department of Education.
Further information about fee status classification.
Fee reductions
Students who completed undergraduate study at LSE and are beginning taught graduate study at the School are eligible for a fee reduction of 10 per cent of the fee.
Some programmes, such as executive programmes, are excluded from this fee reduction.
Further information
Alumni discount Fees and Student Finance LSE Student Fees Policy
We broadly estimate that you should allow about £1,300-£1,500 per month for all living expenses, including accommodation, travel, food, laundry, study costs, and other personal expenses.
Graduate Support Scheme
LSE Master's Awards
Donor-funded awards for Home fee status students
Programme-related funding
Anniversary Scholarships
LSE Access to Education Graduate Scholarship
Country based awards
The School makes available scholarships for students from specific regions of the world:
Country-based awards for taught master's students: A - C
Country-based awards for taught master's students: D - K
Country-based awards for taught master's students: L - Q
Country-based awards for taught master's students: R - Z
How to apply
See Applying for an LSE scholarship
For 2025 entry, LSE will be offering studentships to new PhD students in the form of LSE PhD Studentships, LSE ESRC Studentships and LAHP AHRC Studentships.
These awards are open to high calibre students of all nationalities studying across all research areas at the School.
LSE PhD Studentships
LSE PhD Studentships are tenable for four years and cover full fees and an annual stipend.
They are available for UK, EU and international students undertaking research in any LSE discipline, with annual renewal subject to satisfactory academic performance.
These awards will be made solely on the basis of outstanding academic merit and research potential.
This relates both to your past academic record and to an assessment of your likely aptitude to complete a PhD in your chosen topic in the time allocated.
ESRC funding
LSE has an Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP) and has ESRC studentships in a number of programmes across 19 departments.
These studentships are available for students of all nationalities.
The structure and duration of the studentship offered will depend on a candidate's previous academic experience, and social research training & experience.
ESRC studentships are applicable to both full-time and part-time study.
We can discuss part-time options with you if you are interested in applying.
They cover full fees (for international students, LSE will cover the difference between UK and overseas fees) and an annual stipend.
Individual programme entries detail which programme are eligible for ESRC funding.
AHRC funding
LSE is part of LAHP (London Arts and Humanities Partnership) , which is funded by the Arts and Humanities Research Council.
Students of all nationalities can apply for one of these studentships.
Studentships are tenable for three years and they cover full fees (for international students, LSE will cover the difference between UK and overseas fees) and an annual stipend.
UKRI expects all projects to be designed in a way that enables students to submit within their funded period.
LSE Departments that typically host AHRC studentships are International History, Media and Communications, Philosophy and Law, but students from other disciplines (for example, Anthropology, Gender Studies and International Development), can also apply if their research falls within the remit of AHRC, as explained here .
LSE CSC Scholarship
LSE is proud to partner with the China Scholarship Council (CSC) to offer the LSE-CSC Scholarship.
This prestigious scholarship supports outstanding students from China in pursuing their research degree at LSE.
LSE is pleased to offer up to eight scholarships each academic year.
These scholarships are tenable for up to four years and recipients must be enrolled in a full time study mode.
Department-specific funding
Check the programme-related funding page for PhD funding opportunities.
Except for LAHP studentships (see below), academic departments nominate students for the funding opportunity they may be eligible for.
There is no separate application for LSE, ESRC and department-specific studentships.
To be considered for this funding, you must submit your complete application for admission to LSE by a specific date.
This date differs by academic department.
deadline for being considered for LSE PhD Studentships and ESRC funding for 2025 entry if you apply to a programme in the Department of Law: 1 December 2024
deadline for being considered for LSE PhD Studentships and ESRC funding for 2025 entry if you apply to a programme in the Department of Economics or Department of International Development: 18 December 2024
deadline for being considered for ESRC funding for 2025 entry: 15 January 2025
deadline for being considered for LSE PhD Studentships for 2025 entry: this can either be 15 January 2025 and/or 25 April 2025 depending on the programme you are applying to.
Details can be found on the individual programme page.
To be considered for a LAHP studentship for 2025 entry, students need to have applied for their chosen programme of studies.
They will also need to submit a separate funding application to LAHP, deadline to be confirmed .
Details of the application process can be found here
Please note that if you secure funding via an organisation that does not already administer their funding through LSE, you will need to make arrangements for the funding organisation to pay you directly.
External funding cannot be paid out to you via LSE.
Postgraduate master's loan
A postgraduate master's loan from the UK government is available for eligible students.
Postgraduate doctoral loan
A postgraduate doctoral loan from the UK government is available for eligible students.
External Private Loans
LSE has agreements with three loan providers who offer various packages dependent on your nationality, chosen programme of study, financial status and future earnings.
The Lenders are Lendwise, Future Finance and Prodigy.
More information can be found here

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Graduate/Prospective-students/Virtual-Graduate-Open-Events:
LSE's Virtual Graduate Open Events for prospective postgraduate students are a series of live online sessions delivered by our academic departments, student support services, current LSE students and the Graduate Admissions team.
Events took place in November 2024 and February 2025.
For academic, personal, and professional development
Information designed to help you at every stage of our Graduate admission process
Join us on campus to learn more about our latest research

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/Research:
Find out more about what our researchers are working on and how they are shaping the world.
Browse research news, blogs and films, search our repository of publications, or find a social science expert in your area of interest.
Articles, blogs, videos and events on AI, technology and society
LSE research helped reduce emotional and financial costs for women

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/business:
Connect with us to create a collaboration that is specifically tailored to the needs of your business.
Engage with our stud ents
Those who complain about ads should have more involvement
mpathy is a hard business skill that affects an organisation’s bottom line
Will cryptographically enhanced commerce will be positive or negative for improving equity?
+44 (0)20 7107 5221
CorporatePartnerships@lse.ac.uk
Houghton Street, London, WC2A 2AE, UK

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/research/research-for-the-world:
light mode
Crowds can be unpredictable, and the task of ensuring people’s safety at large events is fraught with difficulty.
Tom Kirchmaier sets out how LSE, in partnership with the Greater Manchester Police, has been examining the leveraging of innovation for crowd management.
Technical advances are redefining the way political organisations are communicating with the public.
A new book, co-authored by Michael Vaughan, explores what “story tech” can bring to modern campaigns, and the risks of this approach.
This reading list, compiled in collaboration with the LSE Review of Books blog, offers recommendations from LSE researchers of key books for understanding AI.
1 / 3

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/DSI/AI:
At LSE we seek to understand emerging AI technologies and their societal, economic, and political ramifications through our research, teaching, and outreach, convened by the Data Science Institute (DSI).
This includes not only the applications of these technologies to expand social scientific knowledge, but also issues surrounding the responsible, safe, and ethical use of AI.
Professor Jonathan Birch explores the science and ethics of AI sentience
At LSE our researchers are reimagining the tech revolution
Events
Blogs and articles
AI expertise ( view all DSI faculty affiliates )
Research partnerships, projects and groups

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/Research/LSE-iQ:
LSE iQ is the award-winning monthly social science podcast from LSE.
We ask some of the leading social scientists - and other experts - to answer intelligent questions about economics, politics or society.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/news/latest-news-from-lse/j-october-2024/lse-iq-wins-best-branded-podcast-at-the-independent-podcast-awards:
The , produced by a small team in the LSE Communications Division, has won best branded podcast at the Independent Podcast Awards.
The monthly podcast where LSE academics, and other experts, answer one pressing question per episode about economics, politics or society has rapidly gained a large following since it was launched in April 2017.
Alongside expert insight, the podcast also tells the stories of "ordinary" people – showing how academic research relates to the world beyond the "ivory towers".
The podcast has a global audience with listeners tuning in from the United States, India and Hong Kong.
Recent episodes explore ‘What’s it like to win a Nobel Prize?’, ‘How can we solve the gender pay gap?’ and ‘Are we on the verge of a weight-loss revolution?’
Awarding the prize at a ceremony in central London, the judges said: "This is a very solid show for raising the profile of LSE, and highlighting that it teaches more than economics.
The great mix of explanation and narration along with interviews with experts and everyday people in an NPR documentary style is really impressively put together.
It gives the audience valuable information in an engaging and trust-inducing format, all without directly selling their product.
A textbook example of an effective branded show."
Anna Bevan, one of the co-producers of the podcast, said: "This award is a testament to the hard work and dedication of the team that goes on behind the scenes.
From gender equality to health issues and democracy, we are constantly striving to make LSE’s research as accessible as possible and enable it to reach new audiences."
The podcast previously won two awards at the 2019 HEIST Awards for marketing innovation in further and higher education and the Guardian University Award in 2018 for ‘Best marketing and comms campaign’.
It was nominated for 'Best branded podcast' at the British Podcast Awards 2022.
The podcast is available for download on LSE’s website: http://lse.ac.uk/iq as well as SoundCloud and all major podcast apps.
This is a very solid show for raising the profile of LSE, and highlighting that it teaches more than economics.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/news/latest-news-from-lse/i-september-2024/lse-continues-to-lead-on-entrepreneurship-and-public-engagement:
LSE has maintained its position as a leading university for public and community engagement, graduate start-ups and continuing professional development, and working with the public and third sector, according to the latest round of the Knowledge Exchange Framework (KEF).
The KEF is published annually by UK Research and Innovation and highlights the diverse ways English universities support and engage with society and the economy, locally, nationally, and internationally.
The latest assessment reaffirms the School’s areas of strength in engaging the world with our research and knowledge.
As with the previous year’s KEF, LSE’s rating was boosted by our extensive public lecture programme and annual Festival; our substantial and varied output of blogs, films, podcasts and articles; the award-winning work of LSE Generate, supporting our student and alumni businesses; the breadth of work of LSE Consulting; and our provision of diverse, life-long learning opportunities.
Our engagement with businesses and commercialisation of research also remains a central focus of LSE’s Research for the World strategy, launched at the end of last year.
This strategy is building on our excellent reputation for global partnerships and impact generation, our ESRC Impact Acceleration Account, and our work with the ASPECT network for SHAPE commercialisation, which announced its transition to a self-sustaining, membership body earlier this year.
Welcoming the results, Professor Susana Mourato , LSE Vice President and Pro-Vice Chancellor (Research) said:
"LSE was founded for the betterment of society and, once again, the KEF shows how we continue to pursue this mission.
We are pleased that our outstanding commitment to public engagement, working with public and third sectors, and our investment in student entrepreneurship and extended education are all rightly recognised.
"As set out in our ‘ Research for the World’ strategy , bolstering the impact of our world-leading research remains a top priority for the School."
LSE was founded for the betterment of society and, once again, the KEF shows how we continue to pursue this mission.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/student-life:
As a student at LSE, you will be based in the centre of London, an exciting, vibrant and colourful city.
Our compact campus is packed full of facilities and services to make sure you make the most of your time here, while also giving you easy access to all that London has to offer.
Support services and facilities to ensure you have the best possible experience
Watch the video

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation:
Join the great student community in LSE halls.
Each year, we allocate accommodation to over 4000 students in our own halls, in University of London intercollegiate residences and in private halls.
We can also help you find a privately rented place in London, and we offer short-term rooms in halls over the summer.
Here is all you need to know about accommodation at LSE.
View accommodation available to LSE students.
Search accommodation and filter by price, location and facilities.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/library:
Learn about our collections and services
Learn about the Library's online resources such as ebooks, databases, news and more
With thanks to Tim and Alison Rankin Frost for their generous support of our digitisation programme
020 7955 7229
library.enquiries@lse.ac.uk
LSE Library, 10 Portugal Street, London, WC2A 2HD

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/language-centre:
All Language Centre programmes and courses relate language study and support to the fields of interest of social science students
Outlining opportunities to study abroad and the insight languages give to Sociology.
Featuring staff and students talking about study abroad and how languages are taught at LSE.
Our courses and programmes are supported by a range of supplementary learning opportunities.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/student-life/London-life:
London is an exciting, vibrant and colourful city.
It's also an academic city, with more than 400,000 university students.
Whatever your interests or appetite you will find something to suit your palate and pocket in this truly international capital.
Make the most of career opportunities and social activities, theatre, museums, music and more.
Clubs and societies, the Students' Union, the campus and its facilities, academic support and pastor

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/news:
Welcome to LSE News, the official platform of the London School of Economics and Political Science’s Media Relations team.
Here you'll find LSE's latest news, research stories, media contacts and press releases.
Contact the LSE Media Relations team
Telephone: +44 (0)20 7955 7060
Email: Media.Relations@lse.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/news/faqs:
LSE has many academics willing to talk to journalists about their specialist subjects.
If you know the person you want, or the subject area, please visit our online experts database to find the right person.
If you're having problems, contact the Media Relations Office on media.relations@lse.ac.uk or 020 7955 7060.
There are small images of LSE academics to view in the Experts online guide .
The Media Relations Office also manages a growing picture library, and can supply images of many LSE academics for publication.
If you would like a copy of one of these, or need any other images of LSE, the Library, or general campus shots, please contact the Media Relations Office on media.relations@lse.ac.uk .
In general, media outlets should contact the Media Relations Office to film around LSE or in any of the School buildings via 020 7955 7060 or media.relations@lse.ac.uk .
LSE is an open campus which welcomes many members of the public but media do need permission from us to film within our premises.
Transcripts of lectures are made available when possible and LSE releases podcasts for as many public lectures and debates as possible.
All podcasts, videos and transcripts are posted online as soon as possible after each event.
See the Events pages for more.
The media relations office does not provide transcripts of students' degrees or certificates.
For these please contact the Student Services Centre .
Research publicised by the LSE media relations team represents the findings and considered opinions of members of our academic community.
It does not represent an official position of the School.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/events:
Join the global debate
Welcome to LSE Events, where you can hear from some of the most influential figures in the social sciences.
Join us online or in-person, it's free and open to all.
See our highlights below and browse the full calendar of events.
Sign up to receive newsletters about upcoming public events and exhibitions at LSE.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/events/LSE-Festival/2025:
What are the threats and opportunities of the near and distant future, and what can better world could look like?
Thank you for those who joined LSE Festival 2025 from Monday 16 to Saturday 21 June 2025.
You can catch up with events you missed below.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/events/global-inequality:
Presenting new research produced by the World Inequality Lab, Thomas Piketty discusses recent trends in global inequality, analysing the historical movement toward equality and future prospects for more redistribution.
This lecture includes preliminary results from the Global Justice Project .
Combining comparative historical data series from the World Inequality Database with global input-output tables, environmental accounts, labour force surveys and other sources, the Global Justice Project explores what a just distribution of socio-economic and environmental resources could look like at the global level from 2025 to 2100 – both between and within countries – in a way that is compatible with planetary boundaries.
The project partly builds on the analysis and proposals set out in Thomas Piketty’s Brief History of Equality , extending them into a broader and more comprehensive global framework.
Thomas Piketty ( @PikettyWIL ) is Professor at EHESS and the Paris School of Economics and an alumnus of LSE.
He is the author of numerous research articles and of a dozen books.
He has done historical and theoretical work on the interplay between economic development, the distribution of income and wealth, and political conflict.
He is also Co-Director of the World Inequality Lab and the World Inequality Database.
He is the author of the international best-sellers Capital in the 21st Century (2014) and Capital and Ideology (2020).
Francisco H G Ferreira is the Amartya Sen Professor of Inequality Studies at LSE, where he is also Director of the International Inequalities Institute.
Francisco is an economist working on the measurement, causes and consequences of inequality and poverty in developing countries, with a special focus on Latin America.
The ( @LSEInequalities ) at LSE brings together experts from many LSE departments and centres to lead critical and cutting-edge research to understand why inequalities are escalating in numerous arenas across the world, and to develop critical tools to address these challenges.
This event is the keynote lecture of the International Inequalities Institute 10-year conference .
Join us on campus or register to watch the event online at LSE Live.
LSE Live is the home for our live streams, allowing you to tune in and join the global debate at LSE, wherever you are in the world.
If you can't attend live, a video will be made available shortly afterwards on LSE's YouTube channel .
Hashtag for this event: #LSEEvents
Many speakers at LSE events also write for LSE Blogs , which present research and critical commentary accessibly for a public audience.
Follow British Politics and Policy , the Business Review , the Impact Blog , European Politics and Policy and the LSE Review of Books to learn more about the debates our events series present.
Automated live captions are available at this live event.
Please note that this feature uses Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) technology, or machine generated transcription and is not 100% accurate.
Photographs are regularly taken at LSE events both by LSE staff and members of the media.
Photographs from events taken by LSE staff are often used on LSE's social media accounts.
Please contact the Press Office if you would like to request a press seat or have a media query about this event, email LSE.Press.Events@lse.ac.uk .
Please note that press seats are usually allocated at least 24 hours before each event.
We aim to make all LSE events available as a podcast subject to receiving permission from the speaker/s to do this, and subject to no technical problems with the recording of the event.
Podcasts are normally available 1 week after the event.
Podcasts and videos of past events can be found online.
Follow LSE public events on X for the latest updates on all our events and ticket releases.
Livestreams and archive videos of past lectures are shared on our YouTube channel while event podcasts can be found on the LSE Player .
Event updates and other information about what’s happening at LSE can be found on our Facebook page and for live photos from events and around campus, follow us on Instagram .
Attending our events in-person or online?
Join the conversation using #LSEEvents.
If you are planning to attend this event and would like details on how to get here and what time to arrive, as well as on accessibility and special requirements, please refer to LSE Events FAQ .
LSE aims to ensure that people have equal access to these public events, but please contact the events organiser as far as possible in advance if you have any access requirements so that arrangements, where possible, can be made.
If the event is ticketed, please ensure you get in touch in advance of the ticket release date.
Access Guides to all our venues can be viewed online .
LSE has now introduced wireless for guests and visitors in association with 'The Cloud', also in use at many other locations across the UK.
If you are on campus visiting for the day or attending a conference or event, you can connect your device to wireless.
See more information and create an account at Join the Cloud .
Visitors from other participating institutions are encouraged to use eduroam .
If you are having trouble connecting to eduroam, please contact your home institution for assistance.
The Cloud is only intended for guest and visitor access to wifi.
Existing LSE staff and students are encouraged to use eduroam instead.
From time to time there are changes to event details so we strongly recommend that if you plan to attend this event you check back on this listing on the day of the event.
LSE holds a wide range of events, covering many of the most controversial issues of the day, and speakers at our events may express views that cause offence.
The views expressed by speakers at LSE events do not reflect the position or views of the London School of Economics and Political Science.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/events/cop30-and-the-sustainable-growth-agenda:
As the world prepares for COP30 in Brazil, this event provides a forward-looking platform to explore priorities, challenges, and opportunities for accelerating and aligning climate ambition with sustainable economic growth.
As countries prepare to submit enhanced nationally determined contributions (NDCs), our panel explores how climate action can drive innovation, job creation, and long-term resilience, particularly in emerging and developing economies.
Michael Greenstone is the Milton Friedman Distinguished Service Professor in Economics as well as the Director of the Becker Friedman Institute and the interdisciplinary Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago.
In addition, he serves as the founding director of the University’s Institute for Climate and Sustainable Growth and Director of the interdisciplinary Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago.
He was previously Director of the Becker Friedman Institute for Economics.
Rohini Pande is the Henry J Heinz II Professor of Economics and Director of the Economic Growth Center at Yale University.
She is also the faculty director of Inclusion Economics at Yale.
Pande’s research, which has influenced policy in South Asia and globally, focuses on how institutions shape power relationships and patterns of economic, political, and environmental advantage in low-income countries.
She is interested in the role of public policy in providing the poor and disadvantaged political and economic power, as well as how notions of economic justice and human rights can legitimise and enable such change.
José Scheinkman is the Charles and Lynn Zhang Professor of Economics at Columbia University and the Theodore A Wells '29 Professor of Economics Emeritus at Princeton University.
He spent much of his career at the University of Chicago, where he served as department chair immediately prior to his departure for Princeton.
Andrew Steer is Professor in Practice, Global School of Sustainability, LSE.
He is a leader in sustainable development and climate change advocacy.
Sir Andrew has served most recently as the founding President and CEO of the Bezos Earth Fund.
Previously the President and CEO of World Resources Institute and has held significant positions at the World Bank, including Special Envoy for Climate Change, and was Director General at the former UK Department for International Development (DFID).
The Economics of Environment and Energy Programme ( @STICERD_LSE ), International Growth Centre ( @The_IGC ) and Programme on Innovation and Diffusion ( @POID_LSE ) within the Department of Economics at LSE are convening the fourth Environment Week at LSE from 22-25 September 2025.
Working with partners at the School and across the world we want to use Environment Week to encourage economists from all fields of economics to work on environmental issues and to connect this work to policy change.
This is one of three public events during LSE Environment Week, the others are:
23 September - Valuing nature in a changing climate: rethinking natural capital
24 September - Climate finance and investment in low-income countries

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/lse-player:
LSE Player is home to the latest films and podcasts from the London School of Economics and Political Science.
Here you can watch videos on cutting edge research, find the award-winning LSE IQ podcast, and listen to more than 5,000 public event recordings featuring some of the world’s leading thinkers.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/events/arts-and-music/music-at-lse/lunchtime-and-evening-concerts:
Musical life at LSE flourishes with a series of outstanding lunchtime concerts which showcase an impressively international spectrum of musicians.
These take place on Thursdays in term time.
For those who have rarely had the opportunity to go to concerts, these recitals are an excellent introduction to classical music, with varied programmes featuring everything from string quartets to operatic singing.
With the typical performer having countless musical accolades, this lunchtime concert series brings professional-grade music to the LSE campus.
For music lovers, the Shaw Library has a wonderful atmosphere — with an outstanding Steinway piano included, thanks to the generosity of the LSE's Annual Fund — that allows its attentive audiences to hear chamber music in the sort of space the composer likely wrote the pieces.
The lunchtime concerts are free and start promptly at 1.05pm in the Shaw Library, 6th Floor, Old Building during the Autumn term and Winter term.
Please view our 2025 Lunchtime concert programme for concerts through the end of the year.
2025 Lunchtime concert programme - Winter Term
2024 Lunchtime concert programme
2023 Lunchtime concert programme
2022 Lunchtime concert programme
2021 Lunchtime concert programme
2020 Lunchtime concert programme
2019 Lunchtime concert programme
2018 Lunchtime concert programme
2017 Lunchtime concert programme
2016 Lunchtime concert programme
2015 Lunchtime concert programme
2014 Lunchtime concert programme
2013 Lunchtime concert programme
2012 Lunchtime concert programme
2011 Lunchtime concert programme
2010 Lunchtime concert programme

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/about-lse:
Welcome to the London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE), a world-leading university, specialising in social sciences, named University of the Year by the Good University Guide 2025.
Based in the heart of London, we are a global community of people and ideas that transform the world.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/about-lse/education-and-student-experience:
LSE is one of the world’s leading universities providing a social science-focused education.
Our students come together with academics and experts to immerse themselves in a research-rich education and to develop the skills, experience and connections to make their own impact in the world.
Browse education news, hear from our students and explore all that LSE offers.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/lse-information/campus-map.aspx:
View on Google Maps
Download PDF
61A - 61 Aldwych
CBG – Centre Building
CKK – Cheng Kin Ku Building, Lincoln's Inn Fields (formerly New Academic Building)
CLM – Clement House, Aldwych
COL – Columbia House, Aldwych
CON – Connaught House, Aldwych
COW – Cowdray House, Portugal Street
FAW – Fawcett House (entry through Pankhurst House)
KGS – King's Chambers, Portugal Street
KSW – 20 Kingsway
LAK – Lakatos Building, Portugal Street
LCH – Lincoln Chambers, Portsmouth Street
5LF – 5 Lincoln's Inn Fields
35L – 35 Lincoln's Inn Fields (under construction)
49L – 49 Lincoln’s Inn Fields (Coopers Restaurant)
50L – 50 Lincoln's Inn Fields, Portsmouth Street
51L - 51 Lincoln's Inn Fields, Sardinia Street
LRB – Lionel Robbins Building, Library
MAR – The Marshall Building, 44 Lincoln’s Inn Fields
OLD – Old Building, Houghton Street
OCS – Old Curiosity Shop, Portsmouth Street
PAN – Pankhurst House, Clement's Inn
PAR – Parish Hall, Sheffield Street
PEA – Peacock Theatre, Portugal Street
PEL – Pethick-Lawrence House
POR – 1 Portsmouth Street SAL – Sir Arthur Lewis Building (formerly 32 Lincoln's Inn Fields)
SAR – Sardinia House, Sardinia Street
SAW – Saw Swee Hock Student Centre, Sheffield Street
SHF – Sheffield Street
STC – St Clement's, Clare Market
All buildings have wheelchair access and lifts except, KGS, KSW*, 50L, POR* and SHF.
*KSW 20 Kingsway (Language Centre only) *POR 1 Portsmouth Street (Shop only)
After 6.30pm, please call Security Control on 020 7955 6200 to ensure that any disabled access doors are open.
Download the LSE accessibility map [PDF]
For access to 20 Kingsway, please call security staff on 020 7955 6200 to set up the portable ramp in the entrance foyer.
AccessAble have produced detailed access guides to the LSE campus and residences, and route maps between key locations.
These access guides, and route maps, are now available online.
Café 54 Ground floor, Cheng Kin Ku Building (currently closed)
Bean Counter Basement, Sir Arthur Lewis Building
Beavers Brew Café Ground floor, Marshall Building
Beveridge Café Ground floor, Centre Building
Denning Learning Café 1st floor, Saw Swee Hock Student Centre
Fourth Floor Restaurant 4th floor, Old Building
George IV Pub Portugal Street
LSE Garrick Ground floor, Columbia House
Plaza Café John Watkins Plaza
Staff Common Room and Dining Room 5th floor, Old Building
Shaw Café Ground floor, Cheng Kin Ku Building
Student Common Room Ground floor, King's Chambers
Three Tuns Bar Ground floor, Saw Swee Hock Student Centre
Ye Old White Horse Pub St.
Clement's Lane
Alumni Theatre Lower ground floor, Cheng Kin Ku Building
Great Hall Ground floor, Marshall Building
Hong Kong Theatre Ground floor, Clement House
Malaysia Auditorium Lower ground floor, Centre Building
Old Theatre Ground floor, Old Building
Shaw Library 6th floor, Old Building
Sheikh Zayed Theatre Lower ground floor, Cheng Kin Ku Building
Thai Theatre Lower ground floor, Cheng Kin Ku Building
The Venue Basement, Saw Swee Hock Student Centre
The Wolfson Theatre Lower ground floor, Cheng Kin Ku Building

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/lse-information/contact-us:
London School of Economics and Political Science Houghton Street London WC2A 2AE
Switchboard: +44 (0)20 7405 7686
Find information, contact details and resources if you're a prospective student, applicant or offer holder.
If you're on campus and come across an emergency, use these numbers:

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/search-accommodation:
Showing 15 results

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Graduate/Available-programmes:
Programme Code/Title
Home
Overseas
N1UH Global Master's in Management
Closed
N4U1 MSc Accounting and Finance
N4U4 MSc Accounting, Organisations and Institutions
Y2UB MSc Anthropology and Development
Limited availability
I1I2 MSc Applied Social Data Science
C8UD MSc Behavioural Science
L6U2 MSc China in Comparative Perspective
L4UC MSc City Design and Social Science
L4U9 MSc Criminal Justice Policy
L2UQ MSc Culture and Conflict in a Global Europe
L3UC MSc Culture and Society
*New* L6U8 MSc Culture, Justice and Environment
G3U1 MSc Data Science
*New* L1S8 MSc Development Management (Applied Development Economics)
*New* L1S9 MSc Development Management (Political Economy)
Y2U6 MSc Development Studies
L1UB MSc Econometrics and Mathematical Economics
V3U1 MSc Economic History
V3U2 MSc Economic History (Research)
L9U5 MSc Economic Policy for International Development
L1U1 MSc Economics
L1U2 MSc Economics (2 Year Programme)
N2U5 MSc Economics and Management
L3UI MSc Economy and Society
V3UE MSc Empires, Colonialism and Globalisation
F9UB MSc Environment and Development
L7UD MSc Environmental Economics and Climate Change
F9UG MSc Environmental Policy and Regulation
L4US MSc European and International Politics and Policy
N3UA MSc Finance (full-time)
LN43 MSc Finance and Economics
N3UB MSc Finance and Private Equity
N4U3 MSc Finance and Risk
V5F1 MSc Financial History
G1U3 MSc Financial Mathematics
Y2U8 MSc Gender
Y2U4 MSc Gender (Research)
L3UE MSc Gender (Rights and Human Rights)
L3UK MSc Gender (Sexuality)
Y2U3 MSc Gender, Development and Globalisation
Y2U7 MSc Gender, Media and Culture
L2US MSc Gender, Peace and Security
Y2U5 MSc Gender, Policy and Inequalities
F9UZ MSc Geographic Data Science
L4UO MSc Global Health Policy
L4UP MSc Health and International Development
L5A1 MSc Health Data Science
V1S7 MSc History of International Relations
L8UH MSc Human Geography and Urban Studies (Research)
N6U8 MSc Human Resources and Organisations (Human Resource Management/CIPD)
N6U7 MSc Human Resources and Organisations (International Employment Relations/CIPD)
N6U9 MSc Human Resources and Organisations (Organisational Behaviour)
L3U9 MSc Human Rights
L3UL MSc Human Rights and Politics
L3UJ MSc Inequalities and Social Science
*New* L1S5 MSc Innovation Policy
V1S6 MSc International and Asian History
L9U2 MSc International Development and Humanitarian Emergencies
L4UH MSc International Health Policy
L4UJ MSc International Health Policy (Health Economics)
L2UK MSc International Migration and Public Policy
M1UW MSc International Political Economy
M1UJ MSc International Political Economy (Research)
M1UR MSc International Relations
M1UI MSc International Relations (Research)
L4UR MSc International Social and Public Policy
L4U7 MSc International Social and Public Policy (Development)
M1T5 MSc International Social and Public Policy (Education)
L4UQ MSc International Social and Public Policy (Migration)
M1T2 MSc International Social and Public Policy (Non-Governmental Organisations)
L4UA MSc International Social and Public Policy (Research)
M3U1 Master of Laws (LLM)
*New* MN55 MSc Law and Finance
L1S2 MSc Local Economic Development
N2UB MSc Management
N1UG MSc Management and Strategy
G5U4 MSc Management of Information Systems and Digital Innovation
N5U1 MSc Marketing
G1U2 MSc Mathematics and Computation
P4U1 MSc Media and Communications
P3U4 MSc Media and Communications (Data and Society)
P3U3 MSc Media and Communications (Media and Communication Governance)
P4U6 MSc Media And Communications (Research)
P3U2 MSc Media, Communication and Development
V4MH MA Modern History
G2U1 MSc Operations Research and Analytics
L7U2 MSc Organisational and Social Psychology
V7U8 MSc Philosophy and Public Policy
V7U1 MSc Philosophy of Economics and the Social Sciences
V5UG MSc Philosophy of Science
L2EU MSc Political Economy of Europe in the World
V3UC MSc Political Economy of Late Development
M1G1 MSc Political Science (Conflict Studies and Comparative Politics)
M2UG MSc Political Science (Global Politics)
M1X1 MSc Political Science (Political Behaviour)
L2UX MSc Political Science (Political Science and Political Economy)
L3U4 MSc Political Sociology
M1UQ MSc Political Theory
P4UA MSc Politics and Communication
L2UN Master of Public Administration (MPA)
M1DS MPA Data Science for Public Policy
L4UT Master of Public Policy (MPP)
M1T3 MSc Public Policy and Administration
G4U2 MSc Quantitative Methods for Risk Management
L8U3 MSc Real Estate Economics and Finance
L8U4 MSc Regional And Urban Planning Studies
M3U8 MSc Regulation
L7U1 MSc Social and Cultural Psychology
L7U5 MSc Social and Public Communication
L6U5 MSc Social Anthropology
L6U3 MSc Social Anthropology (Religion in the Contemporary World)
N2UA MSc Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship
L3T1 MSc Social Research Methods
C8UC MSc Societal and Environmental Psychology (formerly known as MSc Psychology of Economic Life)
L3U2 MSc Sociology
G4U5 MSc Statistics
G4U6 MSc Statistics (Financial Statistics)
G4U7 MSc Statistics (Financial Statistics) (Research)
G4U1 MSc Statistics (Research)
G3U2 MSc Statistics (Social Statistics)
G3U3 MSc Statistics (Social Statistics) (Research)
P3U5 MSc Strategic Communications and Society
V1S8 MSc Theory and History of International Relations
L8U6 MSc Urbanisation and Development
N4ED Diploma Accounting and Finance
Programme code/title
N2U9 Executive Global Master's in Management
M3U5  Executive Master of Laws (ELLM)
Open
L2UM Executive Master of Public Administration
C8U9 Executive MSc Behavioural Science (Modular)
K4U1  Executive MSc Cities
L4CS Executive MSc in Health Economics, Outcomes and Management in Clinical Sciences
L4HM Executive MSc Health Economics, Policy and Management
L4HN Executive MSc Healthcare Decision Making (in collaboration with NICE)
L2UJ Executive MSc International Strategy and Diplomacy (modular/evening)
N2UC Executive MSc Social Business and Entrepreneurship
N42A MSc Finance (part-time)
TRIUM Global Executive MBA
L4UU LSE-Bocconi Double Degree in European and International Public Policy and Politics
Apply via Bocconi (deadline 25 March 2025)
L2NY LSE-Columbia Double Master of Public Administration (MPA)
L2UE LSE-Columbia Double MSc European Politics, Conflict and Culture
Apply via Columbia (deadline 13 March 2025, early deadline for fall admission 30 January 2025)
Apply via Columbia (deadline 13 March 2025, early deadline for fall admission 30 January 2025)
V2IW LSE-Columbia Double MSc International and World History
Apply via Columbia (deadline 13 March 2025, early deadline for fall admission 16 January 2025)
Apply via Columbia(deadline 13 March 2025, early deadline for fall admission 16 January 2025)
P4UB LSE-Fudan Double MSc Global Media and Communications
L2UT LSE-Fudan Double MSc Global Political Economy of China and Europe
L4UW LSE-Fudan Double MSc International Social and Public Policy
V3U8 LSE-Leipzig Double Degree in Global Studies and Economic History
Apply via Leipzig (deadline 31 May 2025)
L4U5 LSE-LSHTM Double MSc Health Policy, Planning And Financing
Apply via LSHTM (rolling admissions)
Apply Via LSHTM (rolling admissions)
V1AD LSE-NUS Double MA Asian and International History
F92A LSE-PKU Double MSc Environmental Policy, Technology and Health (Environment and Development)
F92B LSE-PKU Double MSc Environmental Policy, Technology and Health (Environmental Economics and Climate Change
F92C LSE-PKU Double MSc Environmental Policy, Technology and Health (Environmental Policy and Regulation)
V2IA LSE-PKU Double MSc International Affairs
L2UF LSE-Sciences Po Double Degree Affaires Internationales and International Relations or International Political Economy
Apply via Sciences Po (deadline 22 December 2024)
L2UA LSE- Sciences Po Double Degree in European Studies
Apply via Sciences Po (deadline 9 Febrary 2025)
L1S6 LSE-Sciences Po MSc Development Management (Applied Development Economics)
Apply via Sciences Po (deadline 5 January 2025)
L1S7 LSE-Sciences Po MSc Development Management (Political Economy)
L2SP LSE- Sciences Po Double MPP/MPA
Apply via Sciences Po (deadline 9 February 2025)
L2S4 LSE-Sciences Po Double MSc Political Economy of Development
L7UC LSE-Sciences Po Double MSc Urban Policy
Apply via Sciences Po (deadline 23 March 2025)
L2TU LSE-Toronto Double MPA and Master of Global Affairs
P4UC LSE-UCT Double MSc Global Media and Communications
P4U4 LSE-USC Double MSc Global Media and Communications
P3ZN MPhil/ PhD Data, Networks and Society
M9ZD MPhil/PhD Demography (Social/Formal)
L7ZQ MPhil/ PhD Economic Geography
V3ZE MPhil/ PhD Economic History
L7ZR MPhil/ PhD Environmental Economics
L7ZS MPhil/ PhD Environmental Policy and Development
M1ZE MPhil/ PhD European Studies
Y2ZG MPhil/ PhD Gender
L4ZC MPhil/ PhD Health Policy and Health Economics
L8ZG MPhil/ PhD Human Geography and Urban Studies
V1ZH MPhil/ PhD International History
M1ZR MPhil/ PhD International Relations
M3ZL MPhil/ PhD Law
G5ZC MPhil/ PhD Management (Information Systems and Innovation )
G1ZM MPhil/ PhD Mathematics
P4ZM MPhil/ PhD Media and Communications
V7ZP MPhil/ PhD Philosophy
L7ZP MPhil/ PhD Psychological and Behavioural Science
L8ZR MPhil/ PhD Regional and Urban Planning Studies
L4ZA MPhil/ PhD Social Policy
L9ZM MPhil/ PhD Social Research Methods
L3ZS MPhil/ PhD Sociology
G4ZS MPhil/ PhD Statistics
N2ZD MRes/ PhD Accounting (Accounting, Organisations and Institutions)
N2ZE MRes/ PhD Accounting (Economics of Accounting)
L6ZB MRes/ PhD Anthropology
L1U4 MRes/ PhD Economics
L1MG MRes/ PhD Economics and Management
N4ZC MRes/ PhD Finance
Y2ZI MRes/ PhD International Development
N2Z1 MRes/ PhD Management (Employment Relations and Human Resources)
N2Z2 MRes/ PhD Management (Marketing)
N2Z3 MRes/ PhD Management (Organisational Behaviour)
M1ZN MRes/ PhD Political Science
N4EA  Visiting Research Student in Accounting
L6EA  Visiting Research Student in Anthropology
L9EG  Visiting Research Student In Economic Geography
V3EE  Visiting Research Student in Economic History
L1EC  Visiting Research Student in Economics
L9EE  Visiting Research Student in Environmental Economics
L9EP  Visiting Research Student in Environmental Policy and Development
M1EU  Visiting Research Student in European Studies
N3EA  Visiting Research Student in Finance
Y2TA  Visiting Research Student in Gender
M1EG  Visiting Research Student in Government
L4EU  Visiting Research Student in Health Policy
L9HG  Visiting Research Student in Human Geography and Urban Studies
Y2ED  Visiting Research Student in International Development
V1EH  Visiting Research Student in International History
M1ER  Visiting Research Student in International Relations
M3EL  Visiting Research Student in Law
N1EM  Visiting Research Student in Management
G1EM  Visiting Research Student in Mathematics
P4E1  Visiting Research Student in Media And Communications
V7EP  Visiting Research Student in Philosophy
L7EP  Visiting Research Student in Psychological and Behavioural Science
L8ER  Visiting Research Student in Regional and Urban Planning
L4EA  Visiting Research Student in Social Policy
L3EH  Visiting Research Student in Social Research Methods
L3ES  Visiting Research Student in Sociology
G4ES  Visiting Research Student in Statistics

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/news/latest-news-from-lse/lse-ranked-university-of-the-year-for-student-success:
LSE has been ranked "University of the year for student success" and fourth overall in the Daily Mail University Guide.
The ranking reflects not only LSE’s strong outcomes in jobs, salaries, and degree completion, but also its strong record on social inclusion, with nearly a third of UK undergraduates being the first in their family to attend university.
Alastair McCall, editor of the Daily Mail University Guide, said: “Among all universities in the UK, winning a place at the London School of Economics is the nearest thing to a guarantee of future success.
“On any number of measures, the Daily Mail University of the Year for Student Success 2026 could have been awarded to the LSE.
Students have to be academically successful to win a place in the first instance with competition for places tougher here than at any other UK university.
“More than 90% then go on to achieve first or 2:1 degrees and 94% land high-skilled jobs afterwards.
They earn some of the highest salaries (£36,000 a year as a starting average with many much higher than that).
And if you want to go on to rule your country, LSE does pretty well at that, too, with more than 50 alumni and others connected to the LSE going on to be heads of state.
“A key element for judges in making the award was the efforts the university makes to ensure that this success is shared around, made accessible to the widest possible audience through the university's extensive outreach programme.
This means that just under 30% of UK undergraduates are the first in their immediate family to go to university – exceptional in a university of LSE’s standing.”
In recent years, LSE has significantly expanded its support for students from underrepresented backgrounds.
New programmes include LSE Navigate , launched this year to guide care-experienced students and those holding contextual offers through every stage of their university journey, and the Care Experienced and Estranged Student Bursary , which provides upfront funding to help cover the costs of moving to university.
Other measures range from free LSE Students’ Union gym and society memberships, to the Kickstart scheme and the Social Mobility Mentoring Programme, which pairs first and second year students with alumni working in their chosen fields.
View the story here .
Winning a place at the London School of Economics is the nearest thing to a guarantee of future success.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/news/latest-news-from-lse/i-september-2024/university-of-the-year:
The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide has ranked LSE as the top university in the UK and named the School as its ‘University of the Year 2025’.
This is the first time the Good University Guide has awarded LSE the prestigious ‘University of the Year’ title, and the first time we have been ranked number one in the country.
The top ranking was based on LSE performing exceptionally well across a range of areas, including scoring highly on graduate prospects, research quality and continuation rates.
We also saw improved scores for teaching quality and student satisfaction, which follow a longer-term, School-wide focus on excellence in education .
In addition, The Guide named LSE as runner up for 'University of the Year for Graduate Employment.' Welcoming the announcement, LSE President and Vice Chancellor, Professor Larry Kramer, said: "This award is a tribute to our outstanding faculty and students, and global community.
As someone still relatively new to LSE, I can genuinely say it is a university unlike any other.
The combination of world-leading academics and motivated students, dedication to the social sciences, and international focus, while still being firmly rooted in London, makes it a very special place." This fantastic result follows other high rankings in university league tables over the last year.
In September 2024, The Guardian placed LSE as the top university in London, and as the best place to study Accounting and Finance.
Likewise, the Complete University Guide 2025 named the School as the number one university in the capital.
The continued focus on education and the student experience was also recognised by our students via the most recent National Student Survey (NSS), which informed the Good University Guide 2025.
Achievements in the NSS included a top ranking across all Russell Group universities for Organisation and Management and being first among London Russell Group institutions in the categories of Teaching on my Course, Assessment and Feedback, and Academic Support.
Overall, student satisfaction levels increased markedly across every single NSS measure.
Commenting on the publication of the Good University Guide, editor Helen Davies said:
"The best universities — whether they were founded in the 15th century or 2005 — are local and global powerhouses of intellectual thought and creativity, from the arts to science, that can power economic regeneration and lead the way to a better life.
"London is one of the most extraordinary cities in which to study in the world.
There are 23 universities to choose from who are leading the way in so many subjects from art to robotics and everything in between."
This is a tribute to our outstanding faculty and students, and global community.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/news/latest-news-from-lse/g-july/lse-continues-to-advance-in-national-student-survey:
LSE has once again seen improvements across its National Student Survey (NSS) results , increasing its scores in nine out of ten core measures, including all education-related categories.
The positive 2025 data follow the School’s increases in satisfaction levels reported in last year's survey.
The NSS is an independent survey that gathers final year undergraduate students' opinions on the quality of their course and their experience during their studies.
Achievements in this year’s survey include LSE remaining as the top Russell Group university nationally in Organisation and Management and moving up to second for Academic Support.
The School has also received the highest ratings amongst London Russell Group institutions in five central education categories including, Teaching on my Course, Assessment and Feedback and Learning Resources.
Commenting on the National Student Survey, Vice President and Pro-Vice Chancellor of Education, Professor Emma McCoy, said:
"These are excellent results, which pay tribute to LSE colleagues across all departments and divisions who dedicate themselves to providing an outstanding student experience.
To be the highest-ranking London Russell Group institution across the majority of student experience measures for the second year running shows we are on the right path.
"We will continue to build on this success and use the results to make further improvements, for example in vital areas such as supporting and promoting mental health and wellbeing."
These results follow a series of good news stories around LSE and external rankings.
In the autumn, LSE was placed as the top university in the UK and named as the ‘University of the Year 2025’ by the Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide .
For the full set of NSS 2025 results for LSE and other Higher Education Institutions, visit National Student Survey data .
These are excellent results, which pay tribute to LSE colleagues across all departments and divisions

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/news/latest-news-from-lse/g-july/lse-and-nyu-launch-double-degree-in-media-culture-and-global-cities:
LSE and New York University (NYU) will launch a double master’s degree in Media, Culture and Global Cities in 2026, following a formal signing ceremony held in New York.
The agreement establishes a new academic programme highlighting the pivotal roles of London and New York as leading global hubs for media production, distribution, and consumption.
As the first double degree focused on media, culture and communication in global cities, it offers a unique opportunity to live and study in two of the world’s most connected capitals, examining their influence and interconnectivity beyond national borders.
Students enrolled in the double degree will spend their first year at LSE, earning an MSc in Media and Communications (Communication, Culture and Global Cities), followed by a second year at NYU Steinhardt School of Culture, Education, and Human Development, where they will pursue an MA in Media, Culture and Communication.
Applications will open in the Autumn, with the inaugural cohort due to enrol at LSE for the start of the 2026/27 academic year.
LSE President and Vice Chancellor Professor Larry Kramer commented,
"LSE is thrilled to launch this exciting new programme with NYU.
We expect it will become a signature programme for both universities, offering a unique opportunity for students who want to shape the global media landscape to study in the world’s most influential media capitals."
NYU President Linda G.
Mills added,
"This dual degree programme with LSE stands among our most important, both because we are now neighbours in London and also because it builds on a long-standing and much-valued scholarly collaboration.
We learned long ago that ideas don't have boundaries -- this new program fulfils this important academic mission."
The new NYU partnership joins a suite of existing double degree programmes offered by LSE’s Department of Media and Communications , including long-standing collaborations with the University of Southern California, Fudan University and the University of Cape Town.
These programmes reflect the Department’s global outlook and commitment to interdisciplinary, cross-cultural education.
The launch of the first joint double degree follows the success of the LSE–NYU joint seed research fund , announced in March 2025, which supports collaborative research in areas such as sustainable growth, political science, data science, and AI and society.
In July, eight projects were awarded a total of £80,000 in funding, paving the way for new forms of collaboration between LSE and NYU.
We expect it will become a signature programme for both universities

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/news/search-news:
Showing 1-12 results of 1,032

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/events/search-events:
Showing 1-12 results of 59

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/research/research-for-the-world/ai-and-tech/data-centres-behind-ai:
Discussions about AI and technology innovation, the language we use to describe data existing “in the cloud”, ignore the physical infrastructure underpinning the development of seemingly intangible products, explains Professor Bingchun Meng , Department of Media and Communications at LSE.
In May 2021, Apple Inc.
started the operation of its first Chinese data centre for the storage of all the user data originated in China, which was jointly built by Apple and Guizhou-Cloud Big Data (GCBD) in the southwestern city of Guiyang in the Guizhou province.
Guizhou has often been ranked near the bottom of China’s 31 administrative regions and provinces in terms of gross domestic product (GDP).
Developing data industries in Guizhou is part of a government-led long-term plan aiming for economic growth.
In July 2017, the Chinese State Council set out its ambition to position China by 2030 as the world’s preeminent expert on both research into and applications of artificial intelligence.
In a recent book chapter , Professor Meng notes that Chinese AI companies have been very successful at raising funds from both domestic and overseas investors, resulting in increasing numbers of so-called "unicorns" (privately held start-ups with a valuation of over $1 billion).
A recent sensational example is SenseTime, a Chinese company specialising in AI and facial recognition.
SenseTime was able to raise $1.2 billion in the first six months of 2018, and is now valued at more than $6.2 billion.
As Professor Meng observes, “a seemingly productive alliance is shaping up between venture capitalists, technology companies and the Chinese government, inscribing layer upon layer of significance onto AI as the key technology of the future.”
The physical space for data centres and the abundance of cheap energy supply are some of the hidden material requirements of the shiny end products we think of as ‘‘AI’’ that Professor Meng wants to draw attention to.
Cloud computing, networked machines and artificial intelligence all require the storing and analysing of huge amounts of data.
Surrounded by mountains and forests, making it unsuitable for developing agriculture in the past, Guizhou’s plentiful supply of hydropower and wind energy and its cool “Nordic” climate have made it an ideal location for large-scale data centres that benefit from cheap electricity and natural cooling environments.
Since 2013, the provincial government in Guizhou has made data and cloud computing the strategic priority for economic growth and development.
GCBD was set up in 2014 as the flagship enterprise, first to aggregate and manage data for delivering e-government services, before evolving into a platform for coordinating data trading and cloud computing activities at the provincial level.
Major technology companies, such as Foxconn, Huawei, Tencent, Intel, Microsoft and Alibaba, have all set up data and computing centres in Guizhou.
The Chinese tech giant Tencent’s data centre design was inspired by mountain caves.
Covering 470,000 square metres, it accommodates 300,000 servers, one sixth of which sit inside its five tunnel caves .
“I use the concept of social imaginaries [the set of values, institutions, laws, and symbols through which people imagine their social whole] .
And if we probe into some of the mainstream social imaginaries about AI, there seems to be this fantasy about the ‘cloud’ – it’s clean, it’s ethereal, and it’s somewhere out there doing wonderful things.
But what is visible to the general public about AI is really the tip of the iceberg.
Actually there’s a whole production line starting from lower-level data processing jobs, a materiality to AI that remains largely hidden.”
If we really want to compare the sustainability and viability of AI-related industries, or data industries, in [USA and China], we probably want to look at a longer value chain and production line.
It’s there that you will find that China actually has some advantage.
Professor Meng highlights the importance of the huge material infrastructure and human labour that is overlooked in general discourse about AI.
Discussions about the rivalry between the US and China for AI supremacy, for example, often focus on the end products.
“Think about the shock wave that DeepSeek sent through the world when it released its chatbot.
Everyone was focusing on the (in)effectiveness of US sanctions against China on cutting-edge semiconductor chips.
But actually, if we really want to compare the sustainability and viability of AI-related industries, or data industries, in these two countries, we probably want to look at a longer value chain and production line.
It’s there that you will find that China actually has some advantage.”
In Professor Meng’s research in Guizhou, she observed the substantial effort and resources that were being put into the less visible parts of the AI production line.
“Big Data in Guizhou was conceived from the beginning as a public utility, heavily subsidised by the state.”
Local government officials are aware that they cannot compete in attracting top talents and innovating at the commercial application end, “but they also know that they have a place to occupy on this value chain and they have their own advantage ...
they are necessary to sustain the innovation in Shenzhen and Beijing.”
The Guizhou provincial government has been actively incentivising companies like Huawei and Tencent to build their infrastructure in the province, with cheap leases on land, for example, but also access to cheap labour.
“There is a lot of discussion about automation replacing human labour, but there isn’t nearly enough discussion about how much human labour will need to be invested in the first place to train AI, to train the algorithms.”
Since 2021, Guiyang and the Guian New Area (a 1,795 sq km suburb created in 2014 to attract major technology companies) have created over 150,000 new urban jobs annually The main site where Professor Meng and her team did their fieldwork was a vocational school, Shenghua Vocational College, affiliated with a data processing company, which trains students in the skills needed to work in data processing centres.
Around 200 students in each cohort go on to do a placement in the affiliated company.
These students don’t have the grades to attend university, and the school is heavily subsidised offering significant financial support, so students Professor Meng spoke to were grateful for the opportunity to build these skills and enter the workforce.
“They also felt there is some kind of ‘aura’ associated with the industry – of working in what they call a data processing workshop, rather than on an assembly line.”
To sustain the development of AI, it requires a kind of co-evolution of human labour and technology.
Although the training opportunity is welcomed, these jobs are low-paid and very vulnerable in a rapidly changing industry.
“Those workers we had focus group discussions with [from the affiliated data processing company], they are eventually working towards having themselves replaced.”
Ten years ago, many workers started with the simple task of training algorithms for autonomous driving.
This was very monotonous work looking at hundreds of pictures of traffic scenarios and drawing frames around traffic lights, vehicles, pedestrians crossing the street, etc.
This type of work no longer exists as that training is complete, and this is a tension that Professor Meng sensed in the school and amongst local officials.
“Everything changes so fast in this sector there is an anxiety and constant need to upskill.
That’s even reflected in the changing of the company name from data labelling to data processing.”
But it’s too simplistic to say that these jobs will completely disappear.
It is clear that in the deployment of AI human interaction will still be needed, and Professor Meng sees a continuing demand also at the development end.
“To sustain the development of AI, it requires a kind of co-evolution of human labour and technology.” But, she acknowledges, “that is often a challenge for the labour force that is on the lower end of this value chain .”
The risk of investment in a rapidly changing technology was also apparent to the government officials who spoke with Professor Meng.
The original vision of Guizhou processing all the data from the wealthier coastal cities is collapsing as those coastal areas start to develop their own data centres.
“The province is also very anxious about how they can co-evolve with the technology, and how to move up the value chain.”
AI is now hailed by national governments around the world as the key sector for future economic growth, with investment in AI, machine learning and robotic process automation technology set to reach $232 billion this year .
But the public understanding of how AI is built remains limited, with a disconnect between the digital end product and the physical infrastructure and labour that lies behind it.
Professor Meng believes that a better understanding of these hidden material costs and requirements is essential when discussing the role of AI in our future.
Professor Bingchun Meng was speaking to Loui se Jones, Head of Research Communications and Engagement at LSE.
At LSE our researchers are using technology’s revolutionary power to understand our world better, looking at AI and technology’s potential to do good, and limiting its potential to do harm.
Browse upcoming events, short films, articles and blogs on AI, technology and society on our dedicated hub.
Join us on campus or online wherever you are in the world for LSE Festival: Visions of the Future , a week of special events 16-21 June 2025, free and open to all.
The London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE) is a world-leading university, specialising in social sciences and named University of the Year by the Good University Guide 2025.
Sign up to receive our newsletter: a bi-monthly digest of the latest social science research articles, podcasts and videos from LSE.
Professor, Department of Media and Communications, LSE
Bingchun Meng is Professor in the Department of Media and Communications at LSE and co-Director of the LSE-Fudan Global Public Policy Research Centre.
Her research interests include gender and the media, political economy of media industries, communication governance, and comparative media studies.
27 May 2025 • 7 min read
28 May 2025 • 9 min read
27 May 2025 • 6 min read

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/lse-player/what-if-ai-is-already-conscious-sentience-explained:
Could artificial intelligence already be conscious?
Are today’s AI systems truly aware — or are we just projecting human qualities onto machines?
We speak to Professor Jonathan Birch to explore the science and ethics of AI sentience.
As machine learning systems like ChatGPT become more advanced, questions about consciousness in AI are becoming impossible to ignore.
From unexplained emergent behaviours to the possibility of strange new forms of awareness, could we be facing a moral blind spot?

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/events/how-ai-is-helping-and-harming-animals:
Learn more about the Jeremy Coller Centre for Animal Sentience, a new LSE initiative committed to making sure technological change works for - rather than against - the interests of other species.
Would you trust a device that claimed to translate your dog or cat's emotions into English?
Would you be OK with completely automated, human-free farming?
What if you had a driverless car that was indifferent to hitting birds and foxes?
AI is transforming the lives of animals at speed, but these huge impacts are going unnoticed and unregulated.
Some of the changes could transform our relationships with our fellow creatures for the better, whereas others could make existing animal welfare problems much worse and even more deeply entrenched.
How can we curb the risks and take the opportunities?
Kristin Andrews ( @KristinAndrewz ) is Professor of Philosophy at the CUNY Graduate Center, York Research Chair in Animal Minds and Professor of Philosophy at York University (Toronto), and CIFAR Fellow in the Future Flourishing program.
She is on the board of directors of the Borneo Orangutan Society Canada, a member of the College of the Royal Society of Canada, and the author of several books on social minds, animal minds, and ethics.
Jonathan Birch ( @birchlse ) is Professor of Philosophy and Director of the new Jeremy Coller Centre for Animal Sentience at LSE.
In 2021, he led a "Review of the Evidence of Sentience in Cephalopod Molluscs and Decapod Crustaceans" that led to invertebrate animals including octopuses, crabs and lobsters being included in the UK government's Animal Welfare (Sentience) Act.
In 2024, he published The Edge of Sentience: risk and precaution in humans, other animals, and AI , an Open Access book.
Leonie Bossert works on Environmental, Animal, AI, and Conservation Ethics at the University of Vienna.
Leonie's research focuses on the intersection of technology and environmental ethics, the ethics of life science, theories of interspecies and intergenerational justice, as the ethics of sustainable development, including research on sustainable AI.
Jane Lawton is Managing Director of the Earth Species Project, an initiative to decode animal communication using AI.
She has more than 30 years of international experience working with leading organisations focused on sustainable development and nature conservation.
Jeff Sebo ( @jeffrsebo ) is Associate Professor of Environmental Studies, Director of the Center for Environmental and Animal Protection, Director of the Center for Mind, Ethics, and Policy, and Co-Director of the Wild Animal Welfare Program at New York University.
In 2025, he published The Moral Circle: who matters, what matters, and why .
Roman Frigg is Professor of Philosophy and Head of Department at LSE.
He has won the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation's Friedrich Wilhelm Bessel Research Award and is a permanent visiting professor in the Munich Centre for Mathematical Philosophy of the Ludwig-Maximilians-University Munich.
The Jeremy Coller Centre for Animal Sentience at LSE Philosophy ( @LSEPhilosophy ) is dedicated to improving the lives of non-human animals through interdisciplinary, impact-oriented research across the natural sciences, social sciences and humanities.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/news/latest-news-from-lse/c-march/lse-centre-animal-sentience:
Our understanding of animal feelings, and the impact of human actions, policies and behaviour on them, will be transformed through a new centre being launched at The London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE).
The Jeremy Coller Centre for Animal Sentience , made possible through a multi-year commitment of £4 million from the Jeremy Coller Foundation , will develop new approaches to studying the feelings of other animals scientifically and use the emerging science of animal sentience to design better policies, laws and ways of caring for other animals.
Under the leadership of its inaugural Director, Professor Jonathan Birch , the new centre – launching in autumn 2025 at LSE – will harness LSE’s interdisciplinary expertise, bringing together LSE’s outstanding faculty and students and working with global thought leaders across philosophy, veterinary medicine, evolutionary biology, comparative psychology, neuroscience, behavioural science, computer science, artificial intelligence, economics and law around a shared research agenda and a shared commitment to benefiting other animals.
The Centre will develop guidance for policy makers around how to shift public attitudes and behaviour and conduct research designed to help NGOs in the emerging animal advocacy sector design more successful interventions.
The Centre will also work with stakeholders (in sectors such as science, tech and farming) to explore the ethical use of AI in relation to animals, aiming to develop a code of practice to support the AI industry in ensuring animals and their needs are not forgotten.
Anticipated outcomes of this pathbreaking work could include the adoption of Centre-generated guidance on effecting attitudinal and behavioural change in the day-to-day work of NGOs, the design of more successful interventions around the abolition of inhumane practices affecting animals, and powerful stakeholders (in sectors such as science, tech and farming) declaring that AI must be used ethically in relation to animals.
LSE President and Vice-Chancellor Larry Kramer said: "The Jeremy Coller Centre for Animal Sentience is in perfect keeping with LSE’s tradition of supporting research, teaching, and thoughtful policy on important subjects that don’t always get the attention they deserve.
Research on animals’ needs, feelings and capabilities has important implications for ethics, policy, and law.
I am immensely grateful to the Jeremy Coller Foundation for enabling us to focus on this important area of study."
Professor Jonathan Birch, Department of Philosophy, Logic and Scientific Method at LSE and the Centre’s inaugural Director , commented: "The new Centre, the first of its kind in the world, will be a place for ethical moonshots.
Let's make a world in which all sentient beings are respected, even the smallest ones.
Let's make a world where AI is used to benefit all animals, not to facilitate cruelty.
Let's make a world in which people are empowered to act in accordance with their love of other animals rather than being nudged towards indifference.
Some say these are impossible dreams, but the boundary between the ‘possible’ and the allegedly ‘impossible’ is one we aim to move."
Jeremy Coller commented: "We are a speciesist species - only when we have a better understanding of how other animals feel and communicate will we be able to acknowledge our own shortcomings in how we treat them.
Just as the Rosetta Stone unlocked the secrets of hieroglyphics, I am convinced the power of AI can help us unlock our understanding of how other animals experience their interactions with humans.
We are delighted to partner with the LSE to support Jonathan’s ground-breaking research exploring the intersection between animal sentience, ethics and AI."

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/news/latest-news-from-lse/b-february-25/lse-launches-global-school-of-sustainability:
LSE has launched the , a centre of expertise which supports the global efforts to shape a brighter future for all that is sustainable, resilient, hopeful, prosperous and inclusive.
The Global School of Sustainability convenes world-leading experts across the social sciences and beyond to inform policy on the economic growth, social inclusion and environmental protections crucial to ensuring a sustainable future.
It provides training and development to future leaders through scholarship support, and pioneers research through innovative projects and the Global Sustainability Research Fund.
The new School benefits from LSE’s inclusive and collaborative interdisciplinary approach that draws from our faculty’s expertise across the social sciences.
It builds on and complements further the pathbreaking work of the Grantham Research Institute for Climate Change and the Environment and the existing outstanding contributions from academic departments and researchers across LSE.
Describing the importance of the School when it was announced last year, the Global School of Sustainability's inaugural Chair, Professor Lord Nicholas Stern, said: "The world is on an unsustainable path of growth and development.
There is a real urgency to act to avoid the immense risks we face and there are great opportunities in a new and different path.
But the challenges of creating that new way are difficult and deep.
The obstacles lie in large measure in the economics, the politics, and society.
They are also inescapably international.
Thus, LSE is surely the right place for the crucial academic work and policy analysis to take place."
LSE is surely the right place for the crucial academic work and policy analysis to take place

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/news/latest-news-from-lse/d-april/lse-partners-with-anthropic-to-shape-the-future-of-ai-in-education:
LSE has announced a new partnership with leading Artificial Intelligence (AI) safety and research company Anthropic , to provide all LSE students with access to its Claude AI technology .
From next month, LSE students will have free access to Anthropic’s Claude for Education, a version of their state-of-the-art AI assistant designed for higher education use, which helps students by guiding their reasoning process, rather than simply providing answers.
The new partnership will widen technological access across the entire LSE student community.
It will also help to advance critical discussions about the responsible development of AI in education, with an additional 900 licenses available for academic staff working in this area
This initiative, piloted for 12-months, further strengthens the School’s prominent role in considering the implications of AI in higher education, society, and the world.
LSE is one of only a small group of universities initially working with Anthropic as it develops frameworks for AI in education and understanding its wider societal implications.
The partnership also comes shortly after LSE’s announcement of the new AI and Education Fellowship, funded by Visiting Senior Fellow Reid Hoffman.
These fellowships enable academics to explore innovative approaches to integrating AI into teaching while maintaining the School's emphasis on rigorous intellectual inquiry.
Other notable developments include the upcoming ‘Global Approaches to Generative AI in Higher Education’ conference, co-hosted with Peking University, and LSE’s 2025 Festival, Visions for the Future , which asks how AI, new technologies and innovation will shape our societies.
Commenting on the new partnership, Professor Larry Kramer, LSE President and Vice Chancellor said: "Since our founding, LSE has been at the forefront of understanding social change and seeking solutions to real world challenges.
This new partnership is part of that mission.
As social scientists, we are in a unique position to understand and shape how AI can positively transform education and society.
"Student scholars are also central to this, and I look forward to seeing how this partnership benefits our community, enables innovation in education and supports broader School ambitions to build world-class, AI-enhanced infrastructure and skills development at LSE."
More information about Claude at LSE can be found on this webpage: Claude for Education

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/news/latest-news-from-lse/b-february-25/lse-generate-top-uk-university-start-up-hub-2025:
LSE Generate has been recognised as the top university start-up hub in the UK in the latest rankings by the Financial Times, Statista, and Sifted.
The 2025 edition of Europe’s Leading Start-up Hubs places LSE Generate among the continent’s most influential entrepreneurial ecosystems, reinforcing its reputation as a driving force for innovation and impact-driven business.
The ranking, which evaluates 150 start-up hubs across Europe based on insights from alumni, investors, entrepreneurs, and academics, highlights LSE Generate’s role in fostering high-potential ventures.
The UK leads the list with 29 hubs featured, demonstrating London’s strong position in the European start-up landscape.
A Hub for Impactful Entrepreneurship
LSE Generate has consistently championed entrepreneurship with purpose, supporting students and alumni in launching ventures that drive social, environmental, and economic progress.
Through its incubator, accelerator programmes, funding initiatives, and global network, LSE Generate has cultivated a thriving ecosystem for founders at all stages of their entrepreneurial journey.
This recognition underscores the strength of LSE Generate’s community-led approach, blending academic excellence with practical business support.
With a strong presence in London and international connections spanning Europe, Asia, and Africa, the initiative has propelled numerous start-ups to success.
Sustaining Momentum in 2025 and Beyond
As LSE Generate continues to expand its offerings—through partnerships with OakNorth and LSE’s new Global School of Sustainability as well as a range of investors, policymakers, and corporate partners—it remains committed to equipping founders with the resources needed to build resilient, high-impact businesses.
LSE Generate’s ranking in the FT, Statista, and Sifted list is a testament to the entrepreneurial spirit of LSE’s students and alumni and the University’s vision for shaping the future of business.
LJ Silverman, Head of LSE Generate, emphasised the importance of collaboration beyond traditional start-up circles.
She said:
"Entrepreneurship cannot exist in a silo - its strength lies in collaboration.
At LSE Generate, we go the extra mile, not just for our founders but for the wider entrepreneurial ecosystem.
We work internationally with our alumni founders, we engage with secondary schools up and down the country, and we are deeply embedded in our local community.
The impact of entrepreneurship extends far beyond individual ventures; it is about fostering a mindset of innovation that creates ripple effects across industries, societies, and borders."
At LSE Generate, we go the extra mile, not just for our founders but for the wider entrepreneurial ecosystem

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/news/latest-news-from-lse/a-january-25/recent-lse-graduate-selected-for-prestigious-fellowship:
LSE graduate Shaun Ho has been selected for one of the world’s most prestigious graduate fellowships, located at Schwarzman College in Tsinghua University, Beijing.
Shaun is one of 150 scholars selected from a pool of nearly 5,000 applicants worldwide to be part of the Schwarzman Scholars Class of 2025-26, a one-year fully funded master’s programme.
Applicants are selected in recognition of their exceptional academic and personal achievements and work to be a positive force for change.
As part of the programme, Shaun will study for a year at Tsinghua University where the core curriculum will focus on leadership, China and global affairs.
In addition, he will be provided with a variety of career development opportunities enabling him to establish a network of professional relationships through internships, mentorship programmes and high-profile speakers.
Having graduated in 2023 with a master’s degree in European and International Public Policy from LSE’s European Institute , Shaun now works at Wallbrook, a due diligence and ESG consultancy firm.
He applied to the scheme as he aspires to raise mutual understanding between China and the rest of the world, in particular Europe.
"As a dual Chinese-Portuguese citizen from Macau, I wish to not only share my international experiences with my fellow scholars — I have previously lived in China, the US, France, the UK and Israel — but also learn about the experiences of other scholars, who come from 38 countries worldwide," he says.
Shaun believes his experiences at LSE have prepared him well for the scholarship.
"I will not only contribute my expertise in EU politics and policy to the cohort but also bring with me the research and policy analysis skills that I gained at LSE.
I will also be able to connect the wide professional network that I developed at LSE with the network that I will develop with other Schwarzman scholars in Beijing."
During the scholarship, Shaun looks forward to meeting the other scholars, travelling to different parts of China and gaining a better understanding of the country through first-hand experiences.
To read more on this story, please visit the news page for the International Strategy and Academic Partnerships team.
I wish to not only share my international experiences with my fellow scholars but also learn about the experiences of other scholars.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/about-lse/lse-newsletters:
Find out about social science in action, events, blogs and more
Keep up to date with the latest social science research news, commentary and public events with a choice of free email newsletters from the London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE).
Follow LSE on LinkedIn and subscribe to Social Science in Action , a newsletter for the LSE LinkedIn community with a different current affairs theme each month.
Subscribe to the LSE Blogs newsletter to receive the best research-led analysis and commentary every fortnight in your inbox, with a round-up of picks from across our leading university blog platform , covering politics, economics, business, tech, climate change, higher education, and international affairs.
You can also explore specialist content from some of our LSE blog family:
Looking for free events in London ?
Join us in-person or online through the academic year to hear from world leaders, Nobel Prize winners, international academics and industry experts on today's pressing issues.
Head to the LSE Events sign up to choose between regular email updates about our public events and our LSE Arts programme of concerts and exhibitions - or both!
Research for the World is the online social science magazine featuring the latest research articles, videos and podcasts from LSE academics.
Immerse yourself in innovation, insight and impact.
Sign up to the bi-monthly email newsletter to be notified when a new edition is released.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/about-lse/lse-at-a-glance:
Please see LSE's financial statements .

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/about-lse/sustainability:
LSE is home to world-leading sustainability research which has global impact, a passionate community acting to make change, a green campus, and education programmes preparing students for future challenges.
All of this is core to our strategic mission to shape a sustainable world.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/Research/researcher-profiles/Diana-Desola-Olaleye:
Diana Desola Olaleye
I am researching the social life of an overlooked archive of mass-market literature: racialised and feminised self-help books, written by and for black women in Britain.
From the late 2010s through the early 2020s, these books surfaced against the backdrop of social turbulence.
Being a location of black women’s frustrations and hopes about life in modern Britain, these books offer advice about various aspects of life: careers, motherhood, personal finance, mental health, and navigating university.
Through in-depth interviews, I explore the motivations driving these books, the publishing experiences of the black women authors, and the everyday uses of the books—how black women readers make sense of the texts.
In 2022 it dawned on me that a growing number of black women in Britain were being invited, by a majority white publishing industry, to write non-fiction texts that were packaged and marketed as self-help literature for black women.
It seemed important that black women were extending a helping hand to other black women through literature, but I became curious about life beyond the text, outside the text.
Given the wider social context in which the books emerged, I wondered: what is the cultural work of these books and how have these texts shaped the lives of the black women writing and reading them?
I couldn’t find existing research on this, so I decided to look into it.
The self-help book is among the most disparaged media forms.
It is also a highly profitable genre—one trusted to feed publishers’ pockets.
My research demonstrates the value of adjourning judgment to understand the actual uses and felt consequences of self-help books, while also interrogating existing diversity practices in the creative and cultural industries.
I contribute to important debates about how we can safely balance self and society, and I treat Britain’s trade publishing sector as a site for digging up answers to Sara Ahmed’s simple yet critical question: “What does diversity do?” I join Ahmed in asking who diversity serves and who is left wounded through its rehearsals.
I hope to stir, through my research, productive discussion about this.
Interviewing black women readers of self-help texts has been rewarding.
They have approached our interviews with grace, openness, and a stunning ability to impart complex assessments of the texts with care and empathy.
They have troubled established conceptions of the self-help genre in ways that have pushed me to think more deeply about the understated uses and possibilities of the genre.
Accessing producers of the texts for interviews has been more challenging than I predicted, but this experience has been informative.
I don’t think I can underline one most effective approach.
What has worked for me is reading widely and being attentive to how other people have done research.
It can feel daunting to launch a study with the aim of “filling a gap” in existing scholarship, but there are clues in other people’s work that can be useful for figuring out the nuts and bolts of a new project.
On keeping stress levels down: exercise works wonders—Pilates and incline walking have left me feeling sane in awfully busy periods.
The people, especially professional services staff.
I am grateful to the LSE Garrick catering team for always putting a smile on my face at lunchtime, and for playing Afrobeats in the serving area—this lifts my spirit on long, hard days.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/lse-information/secure/report-a-page.aspx:
We are always looking to improve the LSE website.
If you have a comment, spotted an error that needs correcting, or have any suggestions to improve the website, please fill in the form below.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/lse-information/cookies.aspx:
The Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) defines a cookie as “a small file of letters and numbers that is downloaded on to your computer when you visit a website.
Cookies are used by many websites and can do a number of things, e.g.
remembering your preferences, recording what you have put in your shopping basket, and counting the number of people looking at a website.”
Website operators are required by law, specifically the PECR – Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC Directive) (Amendment) Regulations 2011 (UK Regulations) – to provide clear and comprehensive information about the use of cookies, and ensure that users have consented to this use.
Under the PECR , the relevant provisions that relate to cookies policies are Regulation 6 which requires that website operators provide clear and comprehensive information about the purposes of cookies, and Regulation 7, which requires that website operators obtain the user's consent before using cookies.
Under the GDPR, the relevant articles that relate to cookies policies are Article 12, which requires that information provided to data subjects be concise, transparent, intelligible and easily accessible, and Article 7, which requires that data subjects give their consent to the processing of their personal data.
The LSE website is a large and complex service comprising various sub-sites.
Various cookies are in use across the LSE website, with the cookies in use subject to changes as the website develops.
With the exception of “Strictly Necessary” cookies, you will be able to “accept” or “reject” all cookies or adjust your settings to accept certain categories of cookies.
Session cookie
These are created temporarily in your browser’s subfolder while you are visiting the website.
Session cookies allow you to proceed from webpage to webpage quickly and easily so you don’t get asked for the same information you’ve already given to the site.
The cookie is then automatically deleted when you leave the website.
Persistent cookie
These remain in your browser’s subfolder and are activated again when you re-visit the website.
It helps us to remember your information and settings when you visit the website again, resulting in a faster online experience for you.
Strictly necessary cookie
These are technically essential to the provision of the LSE website.
For example, some cookies are used to enable secure login to restricted areas.
Functional cookie
These enable additional functionality to improve your experience on the website.
For example, recording settings for future visits so as to save users having to repeat making the same choices.
Performance cookie
These monitor and assess the LSE website and its use.
For example, recording visits to reveal how a website is used and which parts are most popular.
Targeting cookies
These use an identification number to monitor personal preferences for the purposes of personalising pages and gathering further information.
For example, presenting adverts or promotions for products similar to those previously viewed or purchased.
Sharing information via social media platforms
LSE websites and applications may have links embedded into pages on various social media platforms.
Cookies generated by those sites are outside of the School’s control and may change without notice.
When you share a page or link those sites may set cookies on your device or browser and may also make information about you publicly available or stored elsewhere.
For more information about privacy and the cookies used by these services, as well as information on how to opt-out, please visit the respective social media platforms.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/lse-information/terms-of-use.aspx:
1.1 These terms and conditions of use ('Terms of use') refer to the official website of The London School of Economics and Political Science ('LSE', 'our', 'we' or 'us'), which is accessible via the address http://www.lse.ac.uk and its variations ('Website').
By using, or contributing to, the Website you ('User' or 'you') agree to these Terms of use.
In particular, we draw your attention to clause 2 (Disclaimer and limitation of liability), clause 3 (Copyright and intellectual property rights) and clause 4 (Contributing to our Website).
You may print and keep a copy of these Terms of use.
1.2 Together these Terms of use, About this page and About this site sections, and any web page-specific terms and conditions that may be shown on the Website from time to time, form the entire agreement between you and us ('Agreement').
If you do not agree to be legally bound by this Agreement please leave the Website immediately.
Your continued access and use of the Website will amount to acceptance of these Terms of use.
1.3 LSE reserves a right to change the Agreement at any time and will post a 'highlight' to the About this site section if changes are made.
You should review these Terms of use on a regular basis to ensure that you are aware of any changes made as you will be legally bound by any amended terms if you continue to use the Website after the changes.
2.1 LSE does its best to ensure that all information on the Website is accurate.
If you find any inaccurate information on the Website please let LSE know by sending an email to Web Services at lsewebsite@lse.ac.uk and we will correct it, where we agree, as soon as practicable.
2.2 LSE gives no warranty or assurance about the content of the Website.
As the Website is under constant development its contents may be incorrect or out-of-date and are subject to change without notice.
While LSE makes every effort to ensure that the content of the Website is accurate, LSE cannot accept liability for the accuracy of all content at any given point in time.
2.3 LSE makes every effort to ensure that its computer infrastructure is error- and virus-free but does not warrant that any material available for downloading from the Website will be free from infection, viruses and/ or other code that has contaminating or destructive properties.
You are responsible for implementing sufficient procedures and virus checks (including anti-virus and other security checks) to satisfy your particular requirements for the accuracy of data input and output.
2.4 Neither LSE nor any of its agents, employees and sub-contractors shall be liable to you or any other party for any claim, loss, demand or damages whatsoever (whether such claims, loss, demands or damages were foreseeable, known or otherwise) arising out of or in connection with the use of the Website or information, content or materials included on the Website.
2.5 In no event shall LSE or any of its agents, employees or sub-contractors be liable to you for any indirect or consequential loss or damage including, without limitation, any;
2.5.1 loss of actual or anticipated profits (including loss of profits on contracts);
2.5.2 loss of revenue;
2.5.3 loss of business;
2.5.4 loss of opportunity;
2.5.5 loss of anticipated savings;
2.5.6 loss of good will;
2.5.7 loss of reputation;
2.5.8 loss or damage to or corruption of data;
2.5.9 loss of use of money or otherwise,
and whether or not advised of the possibility of such claim, loss, demand or damages and arising in tort (including negligence), contract or otherwise, to the fullest extent permitted by law.
2.6 The Website provides hypertext links to other sites operated by other people.
Using such a link means you are leaving the Website.
LSE takes no responsibility for, and gives no warranties, endorsements, guarantees or representations in respect of, linked sites.
LSE is not responsible for the privacy practices, nor do we accept any liability in connection with the content of, such websites, including those of our group entities, which will in some cases have their own privacy policies tailored for the particular business practices and educational sectors in which they operate.
Any concerns regarding any external link should be directed to its website administrator or web master.
2.7 We are a distributor (and not a publisher) of content supplied by third parties and users of the internet.
Any opinions, advice, statements, services, offers, or other information or content expressed or made available by third parties, including information providers, or users, are those of the authors or distributors and not of us.
We do not necessarily endorse nor are we responsible for the accuracy or reliability of any opinion, advice or statement made on the Website.
2.8 The information on the Website is not intended to address your particular requirements.
Such information does not constitute any form of advice or recommendation by us and is not intended to be relied upon by you in making (or refraining from making) any specific educational, or other, decisions.
You should take your own advice and/ or make specific enquiries and independently verify any information before relying upon it.
2.9 If you make an arrangement with anyone named in or connected with the Website this is at your sole risk.
2.10 Nothing in this Agreement excludes or limits LSE's liability for:
2.10.1 death or personal injury caused by LSE's negligence; or
2.10.2 fraud or fraudulent misrepresentation; or
2.10.3 the tort of deceit; or
2.10.4 any other liability which may not be limited or excluded by law.
3.1 The Website contains copyright material, trade names and marks and other proprietary information, including, but not limited to, text, software, photos and graphics, and may in future include video, graphics, music and sound ('Content').
The Content is protected by copyright law, registered and unregistered trade marks, database rights and other intellectual property rights.
3.2 LSE, its licensors, or authorised contributors own the copyright, database right and other intellectual property rights in the selection, coordination, arrangement and enhancement of such Content, as well as in the Content original to it.
You may not modify, publish, transmit, participate in the transfer or sale of, create derivative works from, or in any way exploit, any of the Content, in whole or in part except as provided in these Terms of use.
3.3 You may download information from the Website for your own personal use only.
Except as otherwise expressly permitted under copyright law, no copying, redistribution, retransmission, publication or commercial exploitation of downloaded material will be permitted without our express permission or that of the copyright owner.
In the event of any permitted copying, redistribution or publication of copyright material, no changes in or deletion of author attribution, trademark legend or copyright notice shall be made.
You acknowledge that you do not acquire any ownership rights by downloading copyright material.
4.1 Where you elect, or are invited, to submit any contribution or material to the Website (including any text, message board content, photographs, graphics, video, audio or logo) ('Contribution') or otherwise consent to the use of the Contribution, then by submitting the Contribution or consenting to its use, you grant LSE a perpetual, royalty-free, non-exclusive license to use, reproduce, modify, adapt, publish, translate, create derivative works from, distribute, perform, play, make available to the public, and exercise all copyright and publicity rights with respect to your Contribution worldwide and/ or to incorporate your Contribution in other works in any media now known or later developed for the full term of any rights that may exist in your Contribution.
If you do not want to grant to LSE the rights set out above, please do not submit your Contribution to the Website.
The LSE shall have no liability to you for any misuse by any third party of any Contribution that is distributed by us through the Website or in respect of any infringement of the intellectual property rights in any Contribution by any third party.
4.2 By submitting your Contribution to the Website, you:
4.2.1 warrant and represent that your Contribution:
(a) is your own original work and that you have the right to make it available to LSE for all the purposes specified above and that it does not breach or infringe anyone else's rights such as copyright or in is in any way illegal;
(b) is not defamatory, libellous, obscene, menacing, threatening, offensive, abusive, fraudulent or criminal;
(c) will not and does not contravene any relevant local, national or international law or incite or encourage the contravention of any such law;
(d) is not related to the conduct of a business;
(e) does not advertise or market anything in any way; and
(f) is not otherwise offensive;
4.2.2 agree at all times to follow our message board rules of posting, which will be shown next to the message board;
4.2.3 agree to indemnify and keep LSE indemnified on demand against all legal fees, damages and other expenses that may be incurred by LSE as a result of your breach of the above warranty; and
4.2.4 agree to waive any moral rights in your Contribution for the purposes of its submission to and publication on the Website and the purposes specified above to the fullest extent permitted by law.
4.3 We reserve the right to identify you in response to a court order or threat of legal action.
4.4 If you see any information on the Website that breaches your or anyone else's rights or may be illegal, defamatory or otherwise should be removed, let us know immediately by e-mailing Web Services at lsewebsite@lse.ac.uk and, where we agree, we shall do our best to remove it as soon as possible.
4.5 We reserve the right to remove any Contribution from the Website (including any text, message board content, photographs, graphics, video, audio or logo) at any time and without notice and shall not be obliged to give a reason for doing so.
In the event that we remove any Contribution from the Website we shall in no way be liable for any loss, liability, cost or expense suffered by you as a result (whether direct or indirect) of such removal.
4.6 We reserve the right to edit, remove postings to message boards, delete or use electronic methods to block or filter any Contribution left on or sent to the Website at our discretion, including without limitation any message that contravenes any of these Terms of use, but we do not have an obligation to do so.
4.7 You must indemnify (pay) us, and keep us indemnified, on demand for any losses we suffer if you breach this provision or any other provision of these Terms of use or the message board rules of posting.
4.8 We expect many of those contributing to our message boards to have strong views about the matters discussed, but the Website is subject to the laws of libel and you and we could be sued if you are not careful in what you say.
You should not make libellous postings or any postings that are illegal or breach copyright, database or other related rights.
It is your responsibility to check this.
We do not accept any liability in this respect.
4.9 You must not misuse the Website by knowingly introducing viruses, trojans, worms, logic bombs or other material which is malicious or technologically harmful.
You must not attempt to gain unauthorised access to the Website, the server on which the Website is stored or any server, computer or database connected to the Website.
You must not attack the Website via a denial-of-service attack or a distributed denial-of service attack.
By breaching this provision, you would commit a criminal offence under the Computer Misuse Act 1990.
We reserve the right to report any such breach to the relevant law enforcement authorities and in such an event we will co-operate with those authorities by disclosing your identity to them.
In the event of such a breach, your right to use the Website will cease immediately.We will not be liable for any loss or damage caused by a distributed denial-of-service attack, viruses or other technologically harmful material that may infect your computer equipment, computer programs, data or other proprietary material due to your use of the Website or to your downloading of any material posted on it, or on any website linked to it.
4.10 Where we create a link from our Website to any website operated by you, we shall have the right to remove such link at any time without obtaining your prior consent.
In the event that we do remove a link from our Website to any website operated by you, we shall in no way be liable for any loss, liability, cost or expense suffered by you as a result (whether direct or indirect) of such removal, including, without limitation to the foregoing generality, where such loss, liability, cost or expense results from a loss of search engine positioning, ranking, placement or optimisation.
5.1 Your right to privacy is important to us.
The following terms are provided to explain how we collect and use information about you so that you can make an informed choice about using the Website.
5.2.1 LSE is keen to strike a fair balance between your personal privacy and ensuring that you obtain full value from the products and services it provides, while ensuring that it complies with all protection the Data Protection Act 2018 ('the Act') and the General Data Protection Regulation (‘GDPR’) affords to you.
LSE will hold your personal data securely in accordance with the Act, under which it is fully registered and the GDPR.
5.2.2 The main purpose of the Act and GDPR is to contain the possible threat to individuals from the misuse of personal data relating to them held in manual records or on computing equipment.
LSE complies with all requirements of the law on protection of personal data held on computer or in manual records.
The same requirements apply to any records held by individual students about identifiable living individuals.
5.3.1 Personal data is not stored nor captured through the Website without the prior knowledge and consent of Users.
Where personal information is captured (eg through web-based forms for feedback, registration, requests, etc), the User will be informed as to what personal information is being collected, who will use it, and for what purpose(s) it will be used.
5.3.2 Any personal data that you give us will be treated with the utmost care and security.
We will hold your personal information on our systems for as long as it is still used for the purpose stated when originally requested.
5.3.3 LSE is keen to strike a fair balance between your personal privacy and ensuring that you obtain full value from the products and services it provides, while ensuring that it complies with all protection the Act and GDPR affords to you.
LSE will hold your personal data securely in accordance with the Act, under which it is fully registered.
5.3.4 Should you request that we amend or suppress records containing your personal data, we will endeavour to do so as promptly as practical.
However, you may receive communications for a transitional period while we process your records.
5.3.5 The Act and GDPR gives you the right to see the personal information LSE holds on you.
Please see Data protection for more information, including information on specific privacy policies.
5.4.1 This Website uses cookies - a small piece of information stored on your computer in the form of a file - where strictly necessary for the purposes of making the Website work, for monitoring performance or facilitating functionality.
5.4.2 You may refuse the use of cookies by adjusting the settings of your web browser, however please note that if you do this you may not be able to use the full functionality of this Website.
5.4.3 By using this Website, you consent to the use of cookies and use of the data they provide.
5.4.4 For more information, see Cookies .
5.5.1 Continuous logs are kept of requests received by the Website's web servers as it is accessed.
These logs are used to analyse usage of the Website.
5.5.2 Each log entry includes the internet protocol (IP) address of the client used (typically, though not necessarily, the IP address of the personal computer (PC) used), the type of client used (typically, though not necessarily, the type and version of web browser used), the URL of the page (or object) requested, the URL of the previous page (or object) requested (known as the 'referrer' and could relate to this Website or another), and the reference number stored in a cookie created by the Website (if one exists).
LSE logs additionally contain the username used to access restricted areas of the Website.
This username is not collected by nor shared with Nedstat or Google Inc.
5.5.3 LSE is only able to link log entries to individuals where it holds personal data that can be associated with log entries using IP address, username, or reference number from cookies.
This is only possible in relation to Users connected directly to the LSE network (ie using an LSE IP address) and Users using an LSE account (ie using an LSE username).
We will only use this information to identify you where we are required to by law or where we suspect that there has been a breach of the law or of these Terms of use.
6.1 You are solely responsible in all respects for all use of and for protecting the confidentiality of any username and passwords that may be given to you or selected by you for use on our Website.
You may not share these with or transfer them to any third parties.
6.2 You must notify us immediately of any unauthorised use of them or any other breach of security regarding our Website that comes to your attention.
7.1 LSE seeks to ensure that people are treated equally regardless of age, disability, race, nationality, ethnic or national origin, gender, religion, sexual orientation or personal circumstances.
LSE does its best to ensure that the Website is accessible to all its users and potential users, including but not limited to users with disabilities (eg visual impairments, cognitive impairments, motor impairments etc); users for whom English is a second language; users of various software; or any other users who may need to use the Website.
7.2 If you need any advice on making your web content and services accessible, please contact the Web Services Team lsewebsite@lse.ac.uk .
7.3 Access to our Website is permitted on a temporary basis, and we reserve the right to withdraw or amend the service we provide on the Website without notice (see below).
We will not be liable if for any reason the Website is unavailable at any time or for any period.
7.4 From time to time, we may restrict access to some parts of the Website, or the entire Website, to users who are (as the case may be) students, LSE employees or who have registered with us.
8.1 The Agreement forms the whole agreement between you and us.
You acknowledge that you have not entered into this Agreement in reliance upon any warranty or representation made by us or any other person and you waive any rights to damages/ rescission you may have for misrepresentation (other than a fraudulent misrepresentation) that is not contained in this Agreement.
8.2 If any provision or term of these Terms of use shall become or be declared illegal, invalid or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever, such term or provision shall be divisible from the other terms and conditions and shall be deemed to be deleted from them.
8.3 Failure by either party to exercise any right or remedy under this Agreement does not constitute a waiver of that right or remedy.
8.4 Any formal legal notices should be sent to us at the address at the end of these Terms of use by email confirmed by post.
8.5 Failure by us to enforce a right does not result in waiver of such right
8.6 You may not assign or transfer your rights under this Agreement.
8.7 We reserve the right to bar Users from the Website and/ or specific web pages, on a permanent or temporary basis at our discretion.
Any such User shall be notified and must not then attempt to use the Website under any other name or through any other User.
9.1 You may link your website to the home page of the Website at http://www.lse.ac.uk/ , provided you do so in a way that is fair and legal and does not damage our reputation or take advantage of it, but you must not establish a link in such a way as to suggest any form of association, approval or endorsement on our part where none exists.
LSE reserves the right on demand, as it in its discretion thinks fit, to direct you to remove any links to the Website from your website and you shall promptly comply with any such direction or any other lawful direction that we may give to you in relation to the placing of any such link on your website.
9.2 You must not establish a link from any website that is not owned by you.
9.3 Our Website (or any part of its or content on it) must not be framed on any other site, nor may you create a link to any part of the Website other than the home page.
We reserve the right to withdraw linking permission without notice.
The website from which you are linking must comply in all respects with the content standards set out in paragraph 4 above.
10.1 "LSE" and "LSE Enterprise" are UK registered trade marks of The London School of Economics and Political Science.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/lse-information/privacy-policy:
To review the full terms of use of the website, visit Terms of Use .
5.3.3 LSE is keen to strike a fair balance between your personal privacy and ensuring that you obtain full value from the products and services it provides, while ensuring that it complies with all protection the Act and GDPR affords to you.
5.4.1 This Website uses cookies.
The Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) defines a cookie as “a small text file that is downloaded onto ‘terminal equipment’ (e.g.
a computer or smartphone) when the user accesses a website.
It allows the website to recognise that user’s device and store some information about the user’s preferences or past actions.”
5.4.2 With the exception of “Strictly Necessary” cookies, you may refuse the use of cookies by either rejecting the use of cookies when accessing the Website or by adjusting the settings of your web browser, however, please note that if you do this you may not be able to use the full functionality of this Website.
5.4.3 When you access this Website, you will be asked whether you consent to the use of cookies and use of the data they provide.
We advise that you refer to the Cookie policy prior to accepting or rejecting the use of different categories of cookies.
5.4.4 For more information about cookies and how to manage or disable cookies, please refer to our Cookie policy .
5.5.3 When video and audio recordings hosted on the LSE website are downloaded, log entries will track the time of download, number of downloads and the geographical location of all Users .
LSE is only able to link log entries to individuals where it holds personal data that can be associated with log entries using IP address, username, or reference number from cookies.
We will only use this information to identify you where we are required to by law or where we suspect that there has been a breach of the law or of the Terms of use .

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/lse-information/accessibility-statement/home.aspx:
This accessibility statement applies to www.lse.ac.uk and info.lse.ac.uk .
This website is run by LSE.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
For example, that means you should be able to:
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.
We know some parts of this website are not fully accessible:
If you need information on this website in a different format, you can email LSE’s Digital Communications Team .
We’ll get back to your request in 5 to 10 working days.
We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, contact the Digital Communications Team .
If you have reported a problem with our website, or asked for an alternative format, but you are not happy with our response, you can contact our Equity Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) team to register your difficulty.
This helps us improve our service.
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
LSE is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 AA standard , due to the non-compliances listed below.
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons.
Some of our PDFs and Word documents are essential to providing our services.
For example, we have PDFs with information on how users can access our services, and forms published as Word documents.
The accessibility regulations do not require us to fix PDFs or other documents published before 23 September 2018 if they’re not essential to providing our services.
For example, we do not plan to fix this PDF of a programme for a conference in 2016 .
We do not plan to add captions to live video streams because live video is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations .
This statement was prepared on 10 August 2022.
It was last reviewed on 16 August 2022 .
This website was last tested on 15 August 2022 .
The test was carried out by the Cabinet Office.
The test sampled a sampling of pages across the lse.ac.uk and info.lse.ac.uk websites.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/alumni-friends-and-partners/alumni-profiles:
Our alumni community is filled with dynamic thinkers, change makers and influencers.
Find out about our graduates' life experiences and their profound contributions to society.
If you would like your alumni story featured, please email us at alumni@lse.ac.uk.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/alumni-friends-and-partners/LSE-alumni-shaping-the-world:
LSE alumni have been shaping the world since the School’s inception in 1895.
These pages provide a snapshot of LSE alumni across decades, industries, geographies and globally-significant themes, and invite you to reflect on the incredible power of people who enact change in our world.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/alumni-friends-and-partners/lse-research-and-education-foundation-india:
LSE's commitment to creating new generations of thought leaders draws on the School’s world-leading expertise in the social sciences.
Expanding our provision for academic support and providing more experiential learning is an integral part of our strategy.
Established in 2021, the LSE Research and Education Foundation India reinforces the School’s presence in India and advances our commitment to transformative education in the world’s most populous nation.
LSE maintains deep and long-running ties with India.
The architect of the Constitution of India, Dr B.
R.
Ambedkar, studied for his PhD here, and several LSE faculty members – most notably Professor Harold Laski – were among the strongest supporters of the Indian independence movement in London from the 1920s onward.
The LSE Research and Education Foundation India builds on this longstanding and enduring association through three key areas of work:
Mike Ferguson is Co-Director of the LSE Foundation India and LSE’s Chief Financial Officer.
He spearheads strategic planning and resource management for the Foundation.
He also has a lead responsibility for the School’s overall financial strategy and planning, financial operations and compliance.
He is a chartered accountant with over 30 years’ experience working in higher education.
Abhilash Puljal , Co-Director of the LSE Foundation India, is an alumnus of the School and directs LSE’s Indian operations, including fundraising, governance, programme development, alumni relations and community engagement.
He is a strategy advisor with more than 20 years' experience, delivering sustainable projects for public and private sector clients globally.
75 Constitution of India 24 March 2025
In collaboration with LSE South Asia Centre.
Meeting with Professor Larry Kramer, President and Vice Chancellor of the LSE and Gopal Sankaranarayanan, Senior Advocate, Supreme Court of India, and Nasser Munjee, Chair, Senior Advisory Board, LSE South Asia Centre.
INDIA: The Eastern Front 05 March 2025 A discussion with Sreeradha Datta, Dr Md Shariful Islam, Khin Zaw Win, and Dr Avinash Paliwal, author of India’s Near East: A New History.
Co-chaired by Abhilash Puljal and Dr Nilanjan Sarkar, Deputy Director, LSE South Asia Centre.
Tech x Policy: Driving Inclusion in India 31 January 2025
In association with Women in Tech and the LSE Alumni Association of Mumbai and Western India.
A panel discussion and networking event with Divya Pinge, Neha Awasthi, Nikita Kwatra, Sonya Misquita and Abhilash Puljal.
The LSE Research and Education Foundation India is registered as a Charity under Section 8 of the Companies Act 2013.
With CIN : U80904MH2021NPL352932.
Company limited by guarantee.
PAN : AAECL4719Q | 12AB : AAECL4719Q24MB01 | 80G : AAECL4719Q24MB02 The LSE Research and Education Foundation India The Capital, Level 7, Plot C-70, G Block Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra East Mumbai, 400051 India Email: a.puljal@lse.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/alumni-friends-and-partners/recent-graduates:
Congratulations on your graduation!
Welcome to our dedicated programme of support for recent graduates.
Wherever you are in the world, you can find bespoke opportunities to create professional connections and maximise your potential.
See what LSE alumni have published recently
From postgraduate programmes to online courses, access alumni discounts at LSE
What's on at LSE

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/graduate/prospective-students/how-to-apply:
Please read carefully the information in this section and follow the instructions given sensibly; this will help to ensure that everything runs quickly and smoothly.
You will be able to track the progress of your application online.
Most delays and confusion are caused when applicants do not follow our instructions.
You must apply early, as competition for programmes at LSE is intense.
Your application will not be considered until we have received all your supporting documents.
Wherever possible you should submit all of your documents with your online application.
You should expect to wait an average of 8 weeks for a decision when applying for a taught programme; decisions for a research programme may take longer than this.
Important:  LSE expects all applicants to complete their application materials without the use of paid agents or other paid professional assistance.
The use of such services may lead to the rejection of application materials, the revocation of an admissions offer, cancellation of admission, or involuntary withdrawal from the University.
Unscrupulous agents have been known to charge large sums to applicants, and then to submit fraudulent transcripts and references.
They have refused to allow applicants access to their own records on our Graduate Applicant Portal Applicants have been left unable to attend LSE and having to sue the agent for financial redress.
Agents who claim to 'guarantee' entry to LSE are lying.
All applications are considered on their own merits and all applicants can and should submit their own information.
NOTICE: Please be aware of an issue that has come to our attention regarding email junk/spam filters.
Some email software is filtering LSE emails to the spam/junk or ‘Deleted Items/Bin’ folder so please make sure to check there for important information regarding your application.
If you do find any of our emails in any of these folders, please make sure to add the domain @lse.ac.uk to your ‘Safe Senders’ or ‘Never Block’ list .
Emails will be sent to you automatically from our database system once you have begun your online application and as your application progresses through each step in the process (application created; application submitted; application downloaded for processing).
We will then send you a further email each time there is an update to the status of your application, including any requests for further information and the programme selectors’ decision on your application .
It is essential that you ensure you can successfully receive our emails as soon as you begin your application.
You will need to create an account in the online application system using your email address.
You should use the same email address for your application and any enquiries to us.
You do not need to complete the online application form at one sitting; you can return to your partially completed application by logging back into the system using the email address and password you create at the start of the process.
You may submit an application via the online application system only ONCE within the application cycle (October 2024 to September 2025), so before submitting your application you should ensure that you have included all of the information you would like the selectors to review.
Any further changes after your application has been submitted must be requested via the Graduate Applicant Portal and will be subject to our current processing times .
You must upload all of your supporting documents and nominate two referees via the online application system.
The online application allows you to submit your complete application securely and quickly.
Your submitted application will not be processed and considered until we have received all the required supporting documents, including a reference from each of the referees you nominate on your online application.
If you encounter any technical issues while completing your application, please use the “technical support” link located in the bottom-left corner of the application portal to contact us.
If you begin a further new application you will not be able to transfer any information, documents, or references between them.
When completing your initial online application, you may choose up to two programmes in order of preference.
If you are applying for two programmes, please submit a separate statement of academic purpose for each programme .
Your choices will be considered in sequence, and it is only possible to hold one offer of a place, so if you are offered a place on your first-choice programme you will not be considered for your second-choice unless you specifically request it.
If you receive an offer on your first choice, and wish us to send your second choice to be considered too, please use the Add/Amend programmes form on the Graduate Applicant Portal, selecting your current second choice programme as the programme you wish to be considered for.
If you are unsuccessful in your application to both of your initially chosen programmes and you wish to be considered for further, additional choices, you may do this by submitting the Add/Amend programmes via the Graduate Applicant Portal and paying an additional administrative fee of £105.
You should not use this form to add choices 3 and 4 before receiving a decision on each of your original programme choices, unless you wish to withdraw your initial programme choices.
Please note that changing your programme choices after you have submitted your online application may cause significant delays to your application being considered.
You are not permitted to submit an application using the online application system more than ONCE in the same admissions cycle.
If you submit a second online application within the same admissions cycle, it will not be considered.
To apply to further programmes after you have submitted your initial online application, you must use the process above.
All applications must be accompanied by supporting documents.
Some of these are required by all applicants, others are only needed for specific programmes.
Details of specific requirements are given on the programme pages .
Please consult our guide to supporting documents for full information about what you will need.
Please do not send supporting documents directly to departments as this will delay your application.
Please remember that it is your responsibility to ensure that your application is complete, including both references, your statement of academic purpose and CV, your transcript(s), the application assessment fee, and, where applicable, GRE/GMAT scores, your research proposal and/or your sample of written work.
LSE has developed a number of programmes which are administered jointly with other institutions such as Peking University in China and University of Southern California in the USA.
Any additional requirements for these programmes will be listed on their individual programme pages.
Selectors from both institutions consider your application, and this means that it may take a bit longer for a decision to be made on these programmes than on the single centre programmes, however we do expect the decision to be communicated to you within the 8 week turnaround window.
We will advise you of the decision as soon as possible.
To apply as a visiting research student, you apply in the same way as for our MPhil/MRes/PhD programmes, with the same entry criteria.
We welcome applications for research programmes that complement the academic interests of our staff at LSE.
For this reason, we recommend that you take a look at our staff research interests before applying.
We carefully consider each application and take into account all the information included on your form, such as your:
See further information on supporting documents .
You may need to provide evidence of your English language proficiency.
See our English language requirements .
We take active steps to scrutinise and verify documents received during the application process.
If we are unable to verify independently the accuracy of information supplied, your application may be cancelled and any offer withdrawn.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Graduate/Applicants/Tracking-your-application:
We give you access to the Graduate Applicant Portal as soon as we have processed your submitted application.
We aim to ensure this is no more than 10 working days from when we received your submitted application complete with both references.
Once we have processed your submitted application, we will send you an acknowledgement email containing your unique application ID number and instructions about accessing the Graduate Applicant Portal (GAP).
You will receive this acknowledgement email only once the following has happened:
If you do not receive the “LSE Application Processed” email within five working days of receiving the “Application Downloaded” email, please inform us by submitting this webform and selecting the “I cannot locate the link to activate my LFY account” option.
Make sure you check your spam/junk folder for this email, and add lse.ac.uk to your safe senders list.
If you receive an offer you will need to access the Graduate Applicant Portal.
To access the GAP, you first need to set up a Public Account.
The instructions are in the email.
Once you have set up your public account, you can use those credentials to access the GAP at any time.
If you have any difficulty setting up your public account, or accessing the Graduate Applicant Portal, you can watch this video for further guidance.
Please note, if you have previously set up a public account, you can go straight to using your log in credentials to access the portal.
The Portal allows you to view up-to-date information regarding the status of your application.
The Portal is dynamically linked to our own internal database, reflecting any change or decision on your application as soon as it happens.
We also notify you by email as soon as we have processed any further information in relation to your application and once a decision has been made on your application.
If your contact details have changed since you submitted your application, please let us know by updating your details in the portal.
Via the portal you will also be able to submit your Graduate Financial Support Application .
Later in the admission process, you will also be able to use the portal to accept or decline your offer and submit the Financial Undertaking Form.
You will also be able to make other changes to your application using forms within the portal, such as supplying us with extra information we have requested, or requesting a change of mode of study.
You will need to do this before you can use the Graduate Applicant Portal for the first time.
After your application has been submitted, we have received both of your references, and your application has been processed, we will send you an email detailing how to activate your public account and access the Graduate Applicant Portal to track your application online.
The same email will contain your unique application ID number.
The email will contain a unique URL.
Use this link and follow the instructions to set up your public account.
The URL will expire after approximately four weeks (the exact date is given in the email), so make sure you complete this task promptly.
If you fail to activate your account before the link expires, we will send you a new one.
If you have any difficulty in completing the steps above, you may find this video showing the process to be helpful.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/graduate/fees-and-funding/phd-studentships:
For 2025 entry, LSE will be offering studentships to new PhD students in the form of LSE PhD Studentships, LSE DTP ESRC Studentships and London Arts and Humanities Partnership (LAHP) Studentships.
The awards are open to high calibre students of all nationalities studying across all research areas at the School.
LSE PhD Studentships are tenable for four years and cover full fees and an annual stipend, which for 2024 entry was £21,237.
They are available for UK and international students undertaking research in any LSE discipline, with annual renewal subject to satisfactory academic performance.
Academic departments nominate students for consideration by a School panel for all PhD funding opportunities they may be eligible for.
There is no separate application for any of these studentships.
Refer to the individual programme page for the relevant deadline information.
Find your graduate programme .
Find out about ESRC Studentships .
More information on how to apply for a place on a PhD programme .
"I received an LSE PhD Studentship, which covers both my tuition and living expenses.
It was a huge honour to receive funding from such a prestigious institution and without this support it would have been impossible for me to pursue my PhD."
Katherine Furman East London, South Africa MPhil/PhD Philosophy LSE PhD Studentship

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/online-learning/insights/the-top-10-most-in-demand-tech-careers-for-2025:
10 min read
At the end of 2023, the UK tech sector achieved a remarkable milestone, reaching a combined market valuation of $1.1 trillion , reaffirming its position as the largest tech ecosystem in Europe and the third largest globally .
Characterised by robust investment, continuous innovation, and expansive growth, the UK tech landscape continues to offer exciting and dynamic career opportunities​.
But the fast pace of technology means the roles are similarly evolving quicker than ever before.
We’re entering the age of artificial intelligence (AI), and this year’s list of the top 10 most in-demand tech careers has a distinct AI skills trend.
The UK's leadership in AI investment ( 16% of all UK venture capital funding in 2023 was directed towards AI startups ) underscores the importance of AI-related skills in the evolving job market.
To provide an accurate and comprehensive picture of the most in-demand tech roles for 2025, we analysed data from leading reports and industry insights.
These careers are transformative and fast-paced, requiring a commitment to upskilling and reskilling .
For every job on the list, AI isn’t going to take away your career in the years to come, but rather redefine what’s achievable in your work.
This list highlights careers in AI, data, development, cloud computing, machine learning, cybersecurity, blockchain, and UX design – roles that are integral to the UK’s thriving digital economy.
We also considered the availability of roles, core job functions, job satisfaction, and annual earning potential.*
*Tech salaries remain competitive, with wage growth outpacing other sectors in 2024.
While cities like London offer the highest average salaries, remote work continues to level the playing field across the country​.
Each salary listed can vary based on factors such as location, industry, and individual expertise.
Demand: AI and machine learning continue to transform industries, creating growing demand for engineers who can develop intelligent algorithms and models.
These professionals are key drivers of innovation in automation, predictive analytics, and more.
Job Satisfaction: This role allows engineers to work on cutting-edge projects with the potential to shape the future, making it highly rewarding.
Salary: Starting salaries are around £45,000 per annum, with experienced professionals earning up to £120,000.
In London, the median advertised salary for an AI Engineer is £87,500 , which is 17% above the UK average.
Despite being a highly-skilled, technical career, the job pathway may be more accessible than you think.
If you’re looking to enter the AI space, the LSE Data Analytics Career Accelerator has a dedicated AI and Data Analytics Learning Track , offering live, expert-led Masterclasses with the latest GenAI insights and practical skills.
Designed to adapt as technology evolves, this Learning Track gives you access to the latest tips and techniques to help you apply AI to your data analytics work.
Demand : Data professionals analyse large data sets to uncover patterns and insights, driving business decisions.
One of the main differences between data analysts and scientists is the tools and methodologies they use.
Both roles are highly in demand due to the exponential growth of data and the importance of data-driven strategies​.
Both careers are set to be one of the best jobs to have in the digital era far beyond 2024.
Job Satisfaction : Data analysts and scientists lead rewarding careers that focus on solving complex problems with the potential to have significant business impact.
The career pathway offers many opportunities for progression and specialisation, in almost every industry.
Salary : Data analyst salaries in the UK typically range from approximately £30,000 to £60,000 per year, depending on experience and industry.
Data scientists, who often possess more advanced technical skills, can earn between £45,000 and £85,000 annually.
The growing importance of data in decision-making processes underscores the indispensable role of data scientists and analysts in today's business landscape.
If you’re looking to fast-track your path to a data analyst career, the LSE Data Analytics Career Accelerator will give you the technical skills and practical experience you need.
Learn high-demand programming languages and tools like SQL, Python and Tableau, and get dedicated career support to help you get results as a highly sought after data analyst.
Read this blog post to see what career results look like for LSE Career Accelerator learners (and potentially you, too).
If you’re looking for practical guidance on how to move into a data career (from those who’ve already done it) watch the webinar below:
https://youtu.be/Q82jRuGXHxU
Demand: Over the past five years, approximately 52% of UK businesses have experienced at least one cyber-attack, underscoring the critical need for cybersecurity professionals.
Job Satisfaction: This role offers a strong sense of purpose and job security, as analysts actively protect organisations from cyber threats, making it a fulfilling career path.
Salary: In the UK, cybersecurity analysts earn an average annual salary of £45,000 , with entry-level positions starting around £35,000 and experienced professionals earning up to £62,500.
Demand: The UK's tech sector is thriving, with cloud computing at the forefront.
Notably, 89% of major UK firms have integrated at least one cloud service into their operations, underscoring the critical role of cloud engineers in this landscape.
Job Satisfaction: Engaging with cutting-edge technologies and facilitating innovation and scalability provides cloud engineers with a high level of job satisfaction.
The dynamic nature of the field offers continuous learning opportunities and the chance to make significant contributions to business success.
Salary: In the UK, cloud engineers earn an average salary of £54,286 per year , with entry-level positions starting around £38,095 and experienced professionals earning up to £144,552 annually .
The growing reliance on cloud technologies highlights the essential role of cloud engineers in modern business operations.
Demand: DevOps engineers bridge the gap between development and operations, streamlining workflows and boosting productivity.
Demand for this role continues to outpace supply, with over 74% of global businesses adopting DevOps practices, highlighting a critical need for skilled professionals.
Job Satisfaction: This role combines technical expertise with interpersonal skills, creating a dynamic and collaborative work environment that fosters innovation and impact.
Salary: Starting salaries for DevOps engineers in the UK typically begin at £50,000 per annum, with experienced professionals earning up to £85,000 .
Demand: Full stack developers' versatility in handling both front-end and back-end development makes them indispensable in the digital economy.
The demand for these professionals grew by 35% year-on-year from 2015 to 2020 , reflecting their critical role in enabling seamless digital experiences.
Job Satisfaction: Full stack developers enjoy working on diverse projects and often have opportunities for remote work, providing flexibility and career growth
Salary: Salaries range from £40,000 to £80,000 annually , depending on experience and location.
Demand: Blockchain technology's applications extend beyond cryptocurrency, driving demand for engineers who can develop secure, decentralised systems.
Blockchain technology is forecast to increase to nearly $1,000 trillion by 2032 , underscoring the need for talent in this field.
Job Satisfaction: Blockchain engineers are at the forefront of innovative solutions, offering a unique chance to solve complex problems and contribute to transformative technologies.
Salary: Entry-level positions start at £65,000 per annum, with experienced professionals earning up to £90,000 .
Demand: As businesses prioritise customer experience, UX and UI designers play a critical role in creating engaging, user-friendly digital products.
Demand for these roles is expected to grow by 8% between 2023 and 2033 – faster than average.
Job Satisfaction: The creative and impactful nature of this work makes it highly fulfilling, with significant opportunities for specialisation and career progression.
Salary: Salaries for UX/UI designers start at £35,000 per annum, with experienced professionals earning up to £70,000 .
Demand: Product managers oversee the development and delivery of tech products, ensuring alignment between business goals and user needs.
They play a pivotal role in a business's success, and McKinsey research shows that product management capabilities are among the top two drivers of business performance for companies across industries.
Job Satisfaction: This role offers strategic involvement and the chance to lead innovative projects, making it highly collaborative and rewarding.
Salary: Starting salaries are around £45,000 per annum, with experienced professionals earning up to £85,000 .
Demand: Network and systems administrators ensure the smooth operation of IT infrastructures, vital for modern business functions.
With an increasing shift to hybrid work environments, the demand for professionals in this field remains robust.
Job Satisfaction: The stability and critical nature of this role make it a secure and fulfilling career choice.
Salary: Salaries range from £35,000 to £65,000 per annum , depending on experience and industry.
As the tech sector continues its rapid growth, the demand for skilled professionals remains higher than ever.
However, the digital skills gap persists.
Research shows that without access to the right quality of talent, businesses are unlikely to achieve their key strategic deliverables.
We found that 54% struggle to find good candidates for entry-level digital economy roles, and 53% said they’d pay whatever it takes to acquire the digital skills they need.
To address this pressing issue, LSE has partnered with top tech companies to deliver Career Accelerators – online programmes designed to equip you with the in-demand skills, hands-on experience, and career support needed to thrive in today’s competitive market.
These programmes bridge the gap between industry needs and talent, ensuring learners are well-prepared for high-growth roles in areas like data, AI, digital marketing and more .
Learn more about Career Accelerators and start your journey into the tech industry today.
Developed in collaboration with leading technology companies, the Data Analytics Career Accelerator prepares you to accelerate your career as a Data Analyst in the digital economy.
Get the latest articles and testimonials from LSE Executive Education

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/Research/REF-2021:
Professor Susana Mourato, Pro Director for Research
LSE’s outstanding contribution to social science research has once again been recognised by the 2021 Research Excellence Framework (REF) .
LSE is shown as the top university (of multiple submissions) in the UK based on the proportion of ‘world-leading’ (4*) research produced.
LSE is also the joint second ranking university in the UK overall, when considering research outputs, research impact and research environment.
58 per cent of LSE’s research was judged to be world-leading (4*) and 35 per cent was deemed to be internationally excellent (3*).
A number of LSE departments did particularly well, with their Units of Assessment coming top overall.
These are the departments of Economics, Anthropology, Social Policy, Health Policy and Media and Communications.
Academics from the Departments of Gender Studies, Methodology and Psychological and Behavioural Science also contributed to these top scoring Units of Assessments.
Institutional percentages show weighted averages for 4* and 3* and weighted GPA.
View full REF results (REF UK) View LSE's full results (LSE only, Tableau access required)
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) is the system by which the UK’s higher education funding bodies assess the quality of research in publicly funded UK higher education institutions (HEIs).
REF 2021 comprised three elements:
academic outputs, comprising a portfolio based on the FTE of REF-eligible staff submitted;
research impact, submitted as a number of impact case studies (ICSs) in proportion to the total FTE of REF-eligible staff submitted;
research environment, comprising the total number of research degrees awarded between 2014 and 2020, total research income received over the same time period, and an environment statement detailing how the submitting unit(s) supported research and impact over the period.
Outputs, impact and environment were weighted 60:25:15 respectively.
All three elements were graded on a scale from 0 (unclassified) to 4* (world leading) and the results were published as quality profiles showing the percentage of outputs, impact and environment considered to meet each of the starred levels.
Submissions were invited to 34 Units of Assessment (UoAs); LSE made 15 submissions to 13 UoAs across the SHAPE subjects.
For REF2021, HEIs were required to submit research outputs by all eligible members of staff.
Each submitted member of staff could submit between one and five outputs, with the total number of outputs per UoA calculated as total FTE of staff multiplied by 2.5.
Staff were eligible for REF2021 where they were on a teaching-and-research or research-only contract of at least 0.2 FTE on 31 July 2020 and had a substantive connection to the submitting HEI.
Research-only staff also had to be classified as independent researchers.
HEIs were also required to identify which eligible staff had significant responsibility for research.
LSE submitted 100% of its staff meeting these definitions, but other HEIs had eligible staff who did not have significant responsibility for research and hence had a submission rate of less than 100%.
View a full glossary of REF terminology .

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/2030:
LSE Director Minouche Shafik
Our strategy lays out the guiding principles and commitments that will help us shape the world’s future, and achieve our ambition of being the leading social science institution with the greatest global impact.
LSE opened its doors in 1895 with three rooms and 200 students.
Today more than 11,000 students study for degrees at our central London campus, while more than 40,000 more learn on campus or remotely.
But while much has changed, one thing remains constant: our commitment to the original vision of LSE, as ‘a community of people and ideas, founded to know the causes of things, for the betterment of society’.
As we look to the future, we do it as an internationally renowned institution, with a reputation for excellence in teaching, research and public engagement in the social sciences.
What happens at the School has the potential to be world-changing – and in these turbulent times, the social sciences are needed more than ever.
As a proud LSE alumna, I am incredibly honoured to have the responsibility of leading the School and helping to shape its future.
I relish the opportunity for LSE to lead by example through the coming years, and to use our unique strengths to actively contribute to positive change in the world.
LSE President, 2017 - 2023
Our strategy is articulated through three overarching priorities each of which identifies initiatives to deliver an ambitious vision for our future.
Priority 1: Educate for Impact
We commit to working with students to provide a life-long learning opportunity, based on an enquiry-led approach to education and research.
By creating a strong sense of belonging and ensuring we provide holistic support, we will equip our students with the skills, knowledge and confidence to be critical investigators, confident entrepreneurs and culturally aware agents of change.
Priority 2: Research for the World
Building on our leading position in the social sciences, we will broaden our real-world impact by forming a new generation of thought leaders, advocating for the value of the social sciences and becoming the global convenor of influential debate on critical issues.
We will achieve this also by reviewing current and future partnerships, fostering collaboration internally and externally, all whilst ensuring that sustainable funding supports our research.
Research for the World strategy
Priority 3: Developing LSE for Everyone
We will establish LSE as a strong community by supporting staff, recognising and developing talent, and engaging our alumni, friends and partners so they can remain involved with the School and its mission.
We will ensure we can attract and retain the best academics, researchers and professional service staff by embedding equity, diversity, inclusion and sustainability across all our processes and procedures.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/supporting-lse/legacy-giving:
In a world of economic uncertainty, political divisions, social transformations, and anti-intellectual sentiment, the need for greater social understanding and change remains as important today as when the School was founded in 1895.
A gift in your Will can help us continue to educate and train future generations to become critical thinkers, able to investigate the world and shape it for the better.
If you are considering supporting LSE in this way, thank you.
Your legal adviser may find the following information helpful: Name and address
The London School of Economics and Political Science, Houghton Street, London, WC2A 2AE UK Our charity status: The London School of Economics and Political Science (“the LSE”) is recognised as a charity by the Inland Revenue and pays no tax on gifts it receives.
LSE’s reference number with HM Revenue & Customs is X2401.
If you intend for your legacy to be for a specific purpose as opposed to the general charitable purposes of the School, please contact us to discuss how best to meet your specific wishes.
If you intend for your legacy to be for a specific purpose, please contact us to discuss how LSE can best meet your specific wishes.
Thank you for investing in the power of education, and for sharing in our vision to expand the frontiers of human knowledge to make a positive difference in the world.
To learn more about what motivates our alumni and friends to support LSE with a gift in their Will, please click on the video below.
For all legacy enquiries please contact:
Viet-Anh Hua – Legacies Manager
Tel: +44 (0)20 7852 3654 Email: legacy@lse.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/supporting-lse/our-supporters/benefactors:
The names below are listed on our Benefactors’ Board, situated in the lobby entrance of the Old Building.
This recognises those recent benefactors who have provided transformational gifts to LSE, and whose level of generosity has defined the tradition of philanthropy at the School.
Past, current and future generations of LSE students and staff are indebted to these individuals and organisations whose contributions have significantly shaped its development and progress.
ClimateWorks Foundation The Cyrus Poonawalla Group Energy Foundation Gnanalingam Family
Jeremy Coller Foundation
The Laidlaw Foundation OakNorth Rishi Khosla, OBE (MSc Accounting and Finance 1997)
Hermes H K Li (BSc Economics 2004) Mr Adar Poonawalla and Mrs Natasha Poonawalla (MSc Social Psychology 2004) The William and Flora Hewlett Foundation
Athanasios C.
Laskiridis Charitable Foundation David Beecken (MSc Economics 1970) & Kathryn Beecken
AKO Foundation Carnegie Corporation of New York Ms Marianna Latsis (BSc Economics 1977) Sequoia Climate Foundation UBS Optimus Foundation Z Zurich Foundation
Alison Rankin Frost (BA International History 1987) and Tim Frost (BSc Government 1987)
Dr Jakob Horder (PhD Economics 1997)
LSEG Foundation
Luksic Scholars Foundation
Stuart Roden (BSc Economics 1984)
Sir John Sparrow (BSc Accounting and Finance 1954)
Manuel Stotz (BSc Economics 2008)
The African Conservation Development Group
Bloomberg Philanthropies Duncan Clark OBE (BSc Economic History 1990)
Jules Green (BSc Management Sciences 1985) and Susan Green Richard Nesbitt (MSC Accounting & Finance 1986) and Lucy Lawlor John C Phelan Templeton Religion Trust
HS Chau Foundation Chenning Zhao (MSc Accounting & Finance 1997) Cato Stonex (BSc International Relations 1986) Lance Uggla (MSc Accounting & Finance 1986)
Argidius Foundation Kuok (Singapore) Limited James Anderson Garfield Weston Foundation Richard L Oram (MSc Planning Studies 1977)
Dr Frederik Paulsen Foundation Kadas Family Charitable Foundation
Gates Foundation
The Atlantic Philanthropies
Santander Universities UK
The Sutton Trust
Sir Paul Marshall
AXA Research Fund
Margot Lachmann, in memory of Ludwig M Lachmann
Standard Bank Group
The Lees Charitable Foundation
Stiftung Mercator
The William Simpson Legacy
Richard Karl Goeltz (General Course 1963)
Bill Bottriell (BSc Economics 1978)
Professor Saw Swee Hock (PhD Statistics 1963)
Emmanuel Roman
Firoz Lalji (BSc Economics 1969) and Najma Lalji
The Peter E.I.
Lee Legacy
National Bank of Greece
Paulson Family Foundation
The Professor Bob and Dilys Rawson Legacy
John Templeton Foundation
The Emirates Foundation for Philanthropy
The Grantham Foundation for the Protection of the Environment
Dr Paul Woolley
Kuwait Foundation for the Advancement of Sciences (KFAS)
An anonymous donor
Vincent Kin Yuen Cheng (BSc Economics 1993)
Ford Foundation
Open Society Foundations
Reserve Bank of India
Joseph Rowntree Foundation
State Bank of India
Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou (BSc Economics 1987)
Alfred Herrhausen Gesellschaft, the international Forum of Deutsche Bank
Nuffield Foundation
Davina Francescotti (BSc Economics 1981) and Mario Francescotti (BSc Economics 1981) An anonymous donor
Standard Chartered Bank
Wolfson Foundation
Victor Phillip Dahdaleh Charitable Foundation
Deutsche Bank An anonymous donor
The Leverhulme Trust
Wellcome Trust
Heritage Lottery Fund
Michael Peacock Charitable Foundation
Sir Ratan Tata
BP
Society for the Promotion of Contemporary Hellenic Studies Abroad
Rockefeller Family Foundations
Suntory Holdings Ltd
Toyota Motor Corporation

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/alumni-friends-and-partners/alumni-profiles/2024-2025/A-sense-of-belonging:
Dirk Roberston, BSc Sociology 1987
This June we celebrated twenty years of the LSE Alumni Association.
While there had been some local alumni groups around the world, before 2005 there was nothing in place to enable alumni to fully discuss their needs.
The concept of the Alumni Association was developed by David Kingsley OBE, who worked with LSE staff and alumni to start it up.
Today the Alumni Association consists of more than 130 professional and inclusion networks, as well as local country groups.
To mark the achievements of the last twenty years, we spoke to our long-term alumni volunteers about their memories of the Alumni Association’s founding.
"Before the setting up of the Alumni Association, many alumni lost touch with the School after graduation.
There was no formal mechanism for our existing groups to interact with LSE or each other, and for the School, it was challenging to maintain relationships with those far away from London.
I can’t recall exactly who first proposed creating a formal structure to link the international alumni body and LSE, but David Kingsley stands out as a passionate advocate.
David lobbied School officials, and once he received a green light, the idea gained momentum.
We hoped to establish a stronger, more structured relationship between the School and its global alumni network.
Meeting fellow alumni leaders from all over the world during the Forum meetings in London has been great.
Before the Alumni Association, most of us didn’t know each other.
We had graduated in different years, pursued different courses and degrees — yet there was an immediate sense of connection through our shared LSE spirit.
I hope the Alumni Association will thrive for another 20 years — and that the School will continue to recognise just how unique and valuable its alumni community truly is."
"I first became involved with the LSE alumni community in 1989 when I helped found our local alumni group in Calcutta (Kolkata).
When we began to explore the idea of an Alumni Association, the hope was that it would help us improve the connection between alumni and the School and coordinate more faculty visits to our countries.
One of the most wonderful things that has come out of the Alumni Association is the global friendship it promotes.
It’s wonderful when visiting other countries to know there’s a friend who can meet you for a coffee.
The Alumni Association has also really helped to connect alumni through events such as Welcome to the City and Global Networking Night .
These allow us to mentor recent graduates and help those new to the area, building cross-generational connections.
For me, this is the biggest achievement – developing a continued sense of belonging to the LSE family."
"I began attending the biennial LSE Alumni Leaders Forum in the early 2000s when David Kingsley asked if I would join a group called the Alumni Relations Team.
I’m from New York and many US alumni associations are vibrant organisations that can be fun and helpful for both students and alumni.
Given the global nature of LSE, not having an alumni association was a void that I wanted to fill.
The group consisted of me, David, Dirk Robertson from Scotland, Pablo Halpern from Chile and Christoph Roescher from Germany.
We met in London each quarter to set up a framework and constitution for the Alumni Association.
Finally, in 2005, LSE agreed to the formation of the Alumni Association and at that year’s Forum, we approved the constitution and elected David as the first Chair.
What I enjoy most is meeting alumni from across the globe.
You have a shared LSE experience, but I also get to learn interesting things about different people and cultures.
As an alumni leader, you sometimes go to interesting events and meet famous people.
At one alumni event, my wife was seated next to Paul Volcker, former Chair of the Federal Reserve!
My wife worked in the corporate offices of a luxury department store.
On the face of it, they had nothing in common, but they conversed all night on women’s luxury shoe sales and how they could be considered a leading economic indicator."
"David Kingsley was the driving force behind the whole initiative and the glue that held everything together.
The meetings we had with LSE staff were not just number-crunching exercises but robust and meaningful exchanges of strongly held views.
David brought the whole thing to life.
To me, the great achievement of the last twenty years has been the quality that our alumni have brought to the proceedings.
The Alumni Association has contributed to people’s personal and professional development and growth, ensuring the door they stepped through at LSE is always open.
I have learnt so much from our alumni volunteers and remain very proud of having been part of it all.
Gaining my degree from the School is, and always will be, the single most fantastic thing I have done in my life.
I want that magic to live on, in and for other people."
David Kingsley was a passionate advocate for the School and ultimately the one who lobbied for the creation of the Alumni Association.
David’s relationship with the School over his life was multi-faceted – in addition to being a student he was also President of the Students’ Union in 1952, while in 1965 he was elected as the youngest-ever Governor of LSE.
When David was successful in setting up the LSE Alumni Association, he was then it’s first Chair, using the role to build better relationships between alumni and the School.
David was a person who brought everything and everyone together.
His leadership, discretion, and deep loyalty to the School has shaped the Alumni Association into what it is today.
Despite passing away in 2014, David’s legacy is alive today in the work of our alumni volunteers who continue to advocate for alumni and for LSE.
Thank you to our Alumni Association founders and long-term volunteers for shaping a better world at LSE and around the world.
Find out more on how you can get involved as LSE alumni

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/alumni-friends-and-partners/obituaries/2020-2029/obituaries-2025:
We are sad to report the passing of LSE alumni and staff in 2025.
Alumni are listed in alphabetical order in the decade they received their first degree at LSE.
Where available, we have included a link to online obituaries.
Roger F G Alford, BSc Economics 1952 Brian Binns, BSc Economic History 1952 Arthur Butler, BSc International Relations 1952 David I Caddick, BSc Government 1955, MSc Economics 1966 Professor David H Childs, BSc Eonomics 1956, PhD 1962 Mabel L Geeson, CSSA 1949 Margaret Harry, BSC Sociology 1959 Enid D Hepner, BSc Economics 1953 John Hipkin, BSc Economic History 1957, Obituary Anthony R Jollye, BSc 1957 Carol C F Lee, BSc Economics 1958 Ken Leedale, BSc Economics 1950 Margaret Makin, CSSA Social Policy and Admin 1956 Edith D Mansfield, BA 1947 Dorothy M Myers, BA Geography 1958 Sammy Wainwright CBE, BSc Economics 1952, MSc Economics 1954 Margaret Wastie, BSc Economics 1959 Dr Janet Waymark, BSc Economics 1958 Tom White, CASS Social Policy and Admin 1958, Obituary
Anthony S D Cannon, BSc Accounting and Finance 1967 E Cleary, MSc Economics 1965 Navin Chawla, DSA Social Policy and Admin 1968 Morris Cohen, 1967 Leonard T Doyal, MSc Philosophy 1968, Obituary Dr Pascal G Dozie, BSc Economics 1966, Obituary George G Dorin, MSc Accounting and Finance 1987, Obituary David D Driscoll, PhD 1969 Professor Stanley Fischer, BSc Economics 1965, MSc Economics 1966, Obituary Stephen A Grossman, LLM Law 1966 Honourable Dallas S Holmes, MSc Law 1964, Obituary Dr Edward H Hunt, BSc Economic History 1964, PhD Economic History 1971, Obituary Dr Trevor D Kennea, PhD Geography 1969 Leonard H Leigh, PhD Law 1966, Obituary George Peter McNeal, BSc Sociology 1969, RFEE Social Policy and Admin 1969 Ruth E Moher, DSA Social Policy and Admin Z David Patterson, CF 1962 Barr M Rosenberg, MSc Economics 1965, Obituary Dr Constantine Simitis, RFEE Law 1963, Obituary Martin R Stead, BSc International Relations 1966 Keith Young MBE, BSc Economicw 1968, Obituary Dr John Whyman, BSc Economic History 1961, DPM Management 1962
Courtenay M Griffiths KC, LLB Law 1979, Obituary Mark C Humphreys, BSc Social Policy & Admin, 1978 Justice John J L Hunter, MSc International Relations 1972, Obituary Claire H Horsley, BSc Geography 1974, MSc Geography 1977 Nicholas T Michaelides, BSc Statistics and Maths 1972 Alison Oldham, MSc Philosophy 1970, Obituary Sarmad J Osmany, LLM Law 1978 Richard E Vines, BSc Sociology 1977, Obituary
Terence J Beck, MSc Statistic and Maths 1984 Douglas T Dean, Accounting and Finance 1985 Richard M Reingold, General Course 1986 Dr Martin Wright, PhD Sociology 1989
The Honorable Dr Edward O Boamah, MSc Health Policy 2018, Obituary Devika Patel, LLB Law 2013
Sir John Ashworth Professor Lord Meghnad Desai, Obituary

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/uolip/home.aspx:
Earn a University of London qualification with academic direction by LSE in Economics, Management, Finance and the Social Sciences.
Learn online or with support from a global teaching centre.
Telephone 020 7862 8000
Email uolip.vle@lse.ac.uk
LSE Office for University of London Programmes, 95 Aldwych, The London School of Economics and Political Science, Houghton Street, London WC2A 2AE

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/refugees-forced-migrants-displaced-students:
LSE provides support and guidance for refugees, forced migrants and displaced students who are looking to study at the School and throughout their time with us.
LSE provides support to forced migrants and refugees who are looking to apply for a place on one of our undergraduate or graduate programmes.
Applications for undergraduate programmes for 2025 entry will close on 29 January 2025 on the UCAS system.
However, if you are a refugee or forced migrant please do get in touch with us at admissions.forced.migrants@lse.ac.uk to discuss how we might support your application.
Applications for graduate programmes for 2025 entry will open from 9 October 2024.
Please take a look at the information on our graduate admissions website for details of how we can support you through the application process or email us at admissions.forced.migrants@lse.ac.uk .
LSE offers a number of scholarships specifically for forced migrant students at undergraduate and graduate level.
The awards vary in value but can provide funds to cover tuition fees, living costs and accommodation for some students.
Please check out the links on our website for information on how to apply or email us at financial-support@lse.ac.uk .
For students who are already enrolled with us, we have In-course financial support available for those who are facing unexpected financial difficulties.
If you receive an offer of a place to study with us you will also receive information on how to apply for a place in LSE accommodation .
We have a range of accommodation available to suit students at all levels of study and you will receive support and guidance to book the space that is right for you.
The UK Visas and Immigration Service (UKVI) has introduced concessions for Ukrainian nationals applying under temporary, points-based routes.
These are similar to the previous concession for Syrian students, and the current Afghan concessions.
They allow UKVI to apply discretion to switching, and documentary evidence requirements to applications made on the Student and Child Student routes (and economic migration routes).
They also apply a temporary waiver to the requirement to obtain a TB test when applying overseas on the Student route.
Further guidance on these concessions, concessions on family routes, and information on both the Ukraine Family Scheme and the Homes for Ukraine Scheme can all be found on gov.uk pages.
The Student Advice and Engagement Team can also provide more information on applying for a student visa.
LSESU offers a range of services for our student community.
Societies
The LSESU societies are groups of students who share a common interest and provide opportunities to meet new people, pick up skills for later life, provide support and community and have fun while you do it.
Many of our societies are based on national and cultural interests.
Advice Service
The LSESU Advice Service provides free advice and support to LSE students on a range of academic and housing issues.
LSE Student Action for Refugees
LSESU Student Action for Refugees (STAR) seeks to empower and improve the lives of refugees and asylum seekers in the UK and abroad with their fundraising, campaigning and volunteering efforts.
Updated 3 October 2023

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/study-abroad/go-lse/inbound-ug/advice-for-inbound-students:
New students should follow the link below to visit the GO LSE student homepage.
You will need to have complete pre-enrolment and set up your LSE network account in order to access the page.
Click here to visit the student homepage
Congratulations on your offer to study on a GO LSE exchange programme.
We can't wait to welcome you to campus soon!
The information below outlines some of the key things you'll need to do next, as well as what you can expect in the lead up to your arrival.
You should accept or decline your offer to study with us online via your LSE Public Account .
We must receive the form to officially record your acceptance of our offer.
We strongly recommend that you familiarise yourself with a number of key sources of information.
In your offer email we may have let you know that we need additional or official copies of certain documents.
It is essential that you provide these as soon as possible as you won't be able to register as an LSE student until we have received and approved them.
All GO LSE students participating in a year-long exchange who have accepted their offer and made their accommodation booking by the deadline of 9 June 2025 are guaranteed a place in LSE or University of London accommodation (subject to availability).
Bookings continue to be accepted after 9 June whilst rooms remain available so offer holders are encouraged to make their booking as soon as possible.
GO LSE students can also opt to find housing in the private sector.
Students on the GO LSE exchange programme pay no tuition fee to LSE.
However, GO LSE students from some institutions will still have to complete parts of the Financial Undertaking Form (FUF).
If you have any questions, please contact ard.exchanges@lse.ac.uk .
The GO LSE team is not legally permitted to give you advice on obtaining a visa to enter the UK.
Visit the LSE Student Advice and Engagement Team webpages for information about visas.
If you have any questions regarding visas then please contact the team by completing their online enquiry form .
Receiving a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) number is essential before you can complete your visa application.
In order to be able to receive your CAS by the earliest possible issue date, ensure that you meet the following criteria:
To help us better plan for the coming academic session, we require all GO LSE exchange students to confirm their course preferences prior to the formal course registration period in September.
You are eligible for National Health Service (NHS) treatment once you have paid the compulsory immigration health surcharge.
Even if you are entitled to free NHS healthcare during your time in the UK, you may like to take out private health insurance.
Private health services are often able to offer treatment faster than if you went through the NHS.
There are many companies who provide private healthcare insurance, but LSE is unable to make recommendations about the best provider for your needs.
Before you arrive, we'll be hosting informal sessions to help answer your questions and give you the opportunity to meet other GO LSE exchange students.
Our annual series of Destination LSE events will take place in June and July.
You can catch up on previous events on the Destination LSE resources page .
This short video covers everything you need to have done before arriving at LSE.
Watch the 2025/26 video here .

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/meet-visit-and-discover-LSE/experience-lse/experience-lse-from-home:
Explore our blogs, vlogs, videos and more, to get to know LSE remotely.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/meet-visit-and-discover-LSE/visit-lse/campus-tours-and-individual-visits:
Drop-in consultations for prospective students Staff from the Student Recruitment and Study Abroad (SRSA) team will offer brief drop-in consultations for prospective LSE undergraduate, graduate and study abroad students from 11am-12pm every Monday to Friday (excluding public holidays and School closure days ) in the Student Services Centre on the ground floor of the Old Building .
Consultations are offered on a first-come first-served basis and provide those interested in studying at the School with the opportunity to ask questions that aren’t answered on our website .
Consultations may be limited to 10 minutes at busy times.
Please be aware, drop-in consultations will not be available on:
We apologise for any inconvenience caused.
The SRSA team can also be contacted through Live Chat .
Visitors wishing to tour LSE’s campus are welcome to do so using the LSExplorer guide.
Details of guided campus tours are provided below.
Self-guided campus tours
Take a self-guided tour of the campus, using our LSExplorer .
This self-guided tour has been designed to allow you to explore and discover LSE’s compact campus at your leisure, leading you around the streets and external public spaces that surround our buildings.
Our guided campus tours are a great opportunity to visit some of LSE’s key facilities and get a feel for what it’s like to be a student at LSE.
Guided campus tours are led by current LSE students and last for approximately 40 minutes.
For an introductory presentation about the range of study options at LSE, student life and the application process, please register for an online Discovery Session .
Guided campus tours usually take place weekly on Wednesday during LSE term-time .
Places are limited and advance booking is essential.
Guided campus tours are for individuals, or groups smaller than 10 to book only.
If you would like to visit LSE as part of a larger school or college group, please see booking information here .
Bookings are now closed for our June campus tours and our next available campus tours will take place at the start of LSE’s Autumn Term in October 2025.
Bookings will open in September 2025.
You are welcome to Visit LSE at any other times and take a self-guided tour at your leisure using our LSExplorer .

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/meet-visit-and-discover-LSE/visit-lse/contact-student-marketing-and-recruitment:
If you have any questions about applying to or studying at LSE, you're welcome to get in touch with LSE's Student Recruitment and Study Abroad (SRSA) team.
Contact us on Live Chat
If you can't make it to our Live Chat hours, you can also use our Undergraduate or Graduate Admissions Knowledge Base.
You can also attend our drop-in consultations with a member of the Student Recruitment and Study Abroad team.
More information on our drop-in consultations, campus tours and other opportunities to visit the campus.
Alternatively, you're welcome to get in touch with us using the following details:
Student Recruitment and Study Abroad Pankhurst House (formerly Tower One), Seventh Floor London School of Economics and Political Science London, WC2A 2AE Tel: +44 (0)20 7955 6613
Further details about LSE Student Recruitment and Study Abroad staff can be found on our Who's who page.
Data Protection Statement:
By chatting with us on Live Chat you agree to us collecting your data and the details you provide will be stored on a secure database.
The data on the form will also be used for monitoring purposes and to track future applications.
LSE will not give or sell your details to any other third party organisation.
Your data is subject to the LSE website terms and conditions and our Data Protection Policy .
Follow them for a year of their studies at LSE

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Undergraduate/widening-participation:
LSE is enriched by a diverse student body.
As a specialist social science institution and a leading global university we want to ensure that the widest range of perspectives and experiences are present in our classrooms.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Undergraduate/Teachers-schools-parents:
LSE offers advice to prospective students, their parents or guardians and their teachers, counsellors and advisers on all aspects of the admissions process and studying at LSE.
Find out how you can best support your child, dependant or students interested in studying at LSE.
We aim to recruit students with the very best academic merit and potential
The personal statement is an important part of the application, particularly at LSE

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Undergraduate/Prospective-Students:
If you enjoy being challenged - intellectually, socially, and personally - and are interested in living in a lively capital city, then LSE is for you.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Undergraduate/Applicants:
You've submitted an application for undergraduate study - find out what you can expect next.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Undergraduate/Offer-Holder:
Congratulations on receiving an offer!
Find details about your offer, including any outstanding conditions or official documents that are required, in your offer letter.
Find out what you need to do now to meet any conditions and prepare for your arrival on campus.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Undergraduate/Prospective-Students/Virtual-undergraduate-open-day/virtual-undergraduate-open-day:
Explore the Virtual Undergraduate Open Day pages below to find out what it is like to be #PartofLSE :

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Undergraduate/Prospective-Students/How-to-Apply:
LSE receives all applications via UCAS.
We do not consider applications made directly to the School.
Before you apply you should read the information and guidance on these pages and on the degree programme pages .
You should read through our information on your consumer rights as a student before making your application.
Applications for undergraduate study should be made online via UCAS .
Applicants should contact UCAS for any technical questions about the application process or for guidance on the UCAS procedures.
Please note – LSE does not participate in UCAS Extra or Clearing.
If you are looking for programmes to study in UCAS Extra or Clearing, we would advise you to check the UCAS website .
A section by section guide to completing the application form, including advice on writing your personal statement and information for teachers/referees, is given on the Completing the Application Form page.
How to apply - watch the video
Applications for deferred entry should be made online via UCAS .
UCAS opened for applications for deferred entry (starting in September 2026) in September 2024.
The last date for the receipt of applications to LSE to qualify for full and equal consideration is 29 January 2025, 18.00 (GMT).
The UCAS application procedure allows international students to apply at any time between September and 30 June.
However, given the competition for places at LSE, ALL applicants are strongly advised to submit their applications to UCAS by 29 January 2025 (for 2025 and deferred 2026 entry) .
We will only consider applications submitted after the UCAS deadline if there are places still available on the relevant degree programme.
It is rare that places are available on our programmes after the UCAS deadline.
All applicants, including international applicants, are therefore strongly advised to apply by the January UCAS deadline.
Please note – LSE does not usually participate in UCAS Extra or Clearing.
Visit our Virtual Undergraduate Open Day pages to access more information for prospective undergraduate students.
Applications are considered by Academic Selectors, who are responsible for decision-making.
Applicants are expected to ensure that their UCAS application is complete before submitting it to the School.
We reserve the right to ask applicants to provide further information relating to any aspect of their application in order to make a final decision.
For example, information concerning entry qualifications, fee status or criminal convictions.
If additional information is not provided when requested there may be a delay in the consideration of your application.
You are asked to contact Undergraduate Admissions should the details or circumstances of your application change in any way, for instance, if you decide to change the A level or equivalent subjects you stated on your UCAS form.
Similarly, if there are any extenuating circumstances which have an impact on your course of study eg, illness, family circumstances or disruption to the delivery of your course at school, you should contact the Undergraduate Admissions team with the relevant details.
Please note: As stated in our admissions policy , the responsibility for providing accurate information regarding qualifications (grades and/or levels) and other details in relation to their application lies with the applicant and their place(s) of education.
The School cannot accept responsibility or compensate for incorrect information submitted through UCAS by the applicant, unless it is advised of such errors before it has made its decision.
We do not interview applicants for any of our programmes at LSE.
It is not possible for applicants to request an interview with the Admissions Selector.
Direct entry to the second year of a programme at LSE on the basis of first year undergraduate study at another university is extremely rare, and is only permitted in exceptional circumstances.
Third year entry is not permitted under any circumstances.
In order to be eligible for consideration, applicants applying for second year must meet the following requirements
Students currently enrolled at another university wishing to gain admission to LSE in the second year should apply via UCAS, and should do so by the UCAS January deadline.
Please ensure you select ‘2’ as your point of entry when applying.
Due to the intense level of competition for places at LSE, we are unable to guarantee entry, even where applicants have met all of our requirements.
The following departments will consider second year entry.
Unfortunately, all other departments are unable to consider second year entry.
Please note – the Accounting, Economics, and Mathematics departments do consider second year entry for applicants who have studied on the University of London International Programme .
It is recommended that you contact Undergraduate Admissions for advice on specific programme requirements before applying.
LSE does not engage education agents or consultants to recruit undergraduate students on its behalf.
The School’s Student Marketing and Recruitment team provide free and comprehensive support to all prospective students, their families and their teachers or advisors.
This support includes advice on subject selection at school, the study opportunities available at LSE, the UCAS application process and the personal statement, and living and studying in London.
LSE discourages prospective undergraduate students and their families or advisors from using education agents and/or consultants to assist with applications for study at the School.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Undergraduate/Applicants/Secure/Contact-UG-Admissions:
If you have not yet submitted your application, and have a question about a programme at LSE, you should contact Student Recruitment and Study Abroad .
If you have applied via UCAS or hold an offer of a place at the School, you can contact us using the contact details given below.
Data Protection
We can only correspond with applicants or their UCAS Nominated Contacts.
In order to comply with Data Protection legislation, please quote the following in all correspondence:
▪ Full name
▪ UCAS Personal ID or LSE student number
▪ Date of birth
▪ Programme applied for
Please ensure that you include your name, date of birth, UCAS ID and programme in any correspondence.
Contact us by phone
Our phone number is +44 (0)20 7955 7160
Our phone service is currently open 10am - 4pm, Monday to Friday.
Contact us via the Undergraduate Admissions Knowledge Base:
Undergraduate Admissions Knowledge Base
If an application has already been sent to the School, please refer to our policy here before submitting a query via the Knowledge base.
Note for current applicants:
Guidance on our decision timeframe can be found in your application acknowledgement email and on our admissions calendar .
Unfortunately, we are unable to provide applicants with a specific date beyond these published details and will be unable to respond to queries regarding this.
All decisions will be published on your UCAS Hub account in the first instance.
Contact us via Live Chat (available for Offer Holders only)
Live Chat for offer holders is available Mon-Fri between 10am and midday.
By chatting with us you agree to us collecting your data and the details you provide will be stored on a secure database.
Reporting Extenuating Circumstances
If circumstances beyond your control have had an adverse effect on your studies; for example illness or bereavement in your family, a natural disaster or political unrest in your country, please let us know.
If you have submitted an application to the School, the Admissions Selector can take these details into consideration, before a decision is made.
Please use this form to submit the details of your extenuating circumstances.
Please note that we are unable to guarantee that disclosed extenuating circumstances will result in a more favourable decision on an application.
Deadlines :
For applicants: Please submit within two weeks of the application submission acknowledgement email from us.
We cannot guarantee to overturn an adverse decision if this form is received after this point.
For offers holders: Submit as soon as possible after the onset of the circumstances and always by the deadline below:
For offer holders studying the International Baccalaureate: 30 June 2025 For offer holders studying A levels or any other qualification: 31 July 2025

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Undergraduate/Prospective-Students/OfS-Transparency-Return:
The figures published here present LSE degree outcomes data for the academic year 2021-22.
Going forward, we will publish similar datasets annually which will show the progress we are making to widen access and support the success of students from underrepresented groups across the UK.
The new LSE 2030 strategy articulates an ambitious programme of work which places equality and diversity at the heart of our campus community.
Through our Access and Participation Plan we have committed to increasing the participation and on-course success of students from key groups underrepresented in higher education.
The APP sets out our five-year plan to achieve these goals, encompassing the whole student journey, from enrolment to securing graduate employment.
The information on these pages shows:
The number of students who attained a particular degree or other academic award, or a particular level of such an award, on completion of their course with us.
It also shows these numbers by reference to:
The gender of the individuals to which they relate
Their ethnicity
Their socio-economic background.
Table 1a: Percentage of first degrees at grade 2:1 or above by characteristic for 2021-22 qualifiers
Glossary of terms
EIMD – English Index of Multiple Deprivation.
This is a postcode-based measure which the Office for Students uses as a proxy for socioeconomic background rather than a direct measure.
EIMD 1 – quintile of highest deprivation
EIMD 5 – quintile of lowest deprivation
The full dataset can be downloaded here .

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Graduate/Applying-for-Graduate-research-programme:
Step 1: Explore our research programmes and deadlines
Choosing the right research programme for you is key.
You can begin your search by exploring LSE’s research programmes on our available Graduate programmes page to understand the research areas for each department.
Spend time deciding which department and programme best matches your research interests.
Research programmes usually start in September and deadlines vary so check the deadline date for your chosen programme on the relevant programme page.
Many scholarships also have early deadlines.
Applications received or completed after the deadline will not be considered for LSE research scholarships.
See individual programme pages and the fees and funding page for details of particular deadlines.
Not sure which programme to apply to or about life as a PhD student at LSE?
Attend one of our Virtual Graduate Open Events .
You need to check you meet the minimum academic and English language entry requirements for the programme.
Entry requirements are clearly listed on each programme page .
You may also need to submit GRE or GMAT scores if required by your programme.
Some individual programmes and departments may have specific requirements and certain criteria for writing statements or research proposals.
For this reason, we advise that you visit the departmental website for your chosen programme to ensure you meet all the requirements before applying.
Supervision arrangements vary by department at LSE.
You can find further details on our Departments and Institutes pages .
While some departments encourage you to reach out to a potential supervisor early to discuss your proposal, others prefer to assign supervisors based on an applicant’s research fit after submission.
Be sure to review your department’s guidance on supervisor contact.
To find the right supervisor, identify an academic or a research group whose research your academic interests relate to.
You can find academic staff profiles with details of their research on our LSE People pages and PhD contact details for each department can be found here .
At the heart of your application is your research proposal, where you’ll outline your planned research objectives, methodology, and anticipated contributions to the field.
Take time to ensure your proposal is clear and well-structured.
Your proposal should be approximately 1,500 words in length but some departments have differing word count requirements so check LSE’s guidance on research proposals.
Your application should include your research proposal, transcript, a statement of academic purpose, a CV, a sample of written work and strong academic references.
Early preparation is crucial—reach out to potential referees well in advance to ensure they can write thorough and supportive recommendations, highlighting your academic potential.
When you’re ready, submit your application and supporting documents through LSE’s Graduate Applicant Portal , ensuring you check the available programmes page before applying.
You can also see the LSE selection process for graduate research to find out more information about how applications for graduate research are considered at LSE.
If shortlisted, you will be invited to attend an interview to help the department gain further information about your motivation, commitment, and potential for study at the doctoral level.
It also provides you with the opportunity to convey your interest in and enthusiasm for your chosen topic, and your overall approach to academic work.
For more information about the interview process, please view this page .
If you are from a minority ethnic background, you may wish to apply under the ACE PGR initiative.
See Attaining Comprehensive Equality in Postgraduate Research Initiative for details.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Graduate/Prospective-students:
LSE offers a unique opportunity to further your studies in a university with a worldwide academic reputation.
Academic requirements, English language levels and GRE/GMAT tests

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Graduate/Applicants:
Whether you've started an application and want to ensure you get it right before submitting, or you've submitted an application and need to know what happens now, the information in this section will help you
What you see on the portal is a real time reflection of what the admissions team can see

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Graduate/Contact-Graduate-Admissions:
If you have submitted an application, or hold an offer of a place at the school, you can contact us using the information in the accordions below.
To speak directly to a member of the admissions team, you can use Zoom or Livechat (for offer holders only), or to email us, you can use the knowledge base, or the forms on the Graduate Applicant Portal.
The website and knowledge base are the quickest way to receive answers to any questions you may have.
Please explore the site before contacting us.
If your question cannot be answered by reference to the online resources, you can submit an email enquiry using the Knowledge Base - at the bottom of any Knowledge Base article, you can select whether the article has helped you.
If it has not helped you, click No, and you will be offered some further assistance.
You may be offered further answers within the Knowledge Base, but if your query is still unanswered, click "I still need help".
You will then be able to submit an email query (using an online form) or access other services, such as Live chat, where appropriate.
We have a telephone triage service, which can direct you to answers on the website and across other resources.
The telephone triage operators can provide general guidance , and direct you to other teams across the school where appropriate.
If you require specific advice relating to your application, you will need to send us a query via the Knowledgebase, use the specific option in the GAP, or use our Zoom or Livechat services.
If you are contacting us to chase up a response or an email (such as your CAS) please check your spam/junk folder first .
You can access the triage service during our core hours of 10:00am to 4:00pm on +44 (0) 2079557160.
Our phone triage line will be unavailable on Tuesday 10th and Thursday 12th June owing to staff training.
We answer all queries in the order they are received.
Please check our current processing times and do not repeat your query.
We will respond as quickly as we can.
If you wish to make changes to your application (including contact details) or to inform us of a decision (such as wishing to defer your offer), then you should use the forms on the Graduate Applicant Portal.
Please ensure that our domain name - lse.ac.uk - is added to your safe senders list.
Many of our email responses are database driven and may end up being mis-directed into your junk mail folder.
If you have a Gmail account, please follow these instructions:
We now offer bookable Zoom sessions with members of the Graduate Admissions team.
Follow this link to book a session.
Please ensure you have viewed our guidance before booking - most queries can be answered on our webpages, or our knowledge base .
Zoom slots are released 3 days in advance.
If the booking page is showing no slots for the month, check back the next day when more slots will be released.
Applicants to the Department of Management can book specialist Zoom sessions here: Prospective student Zoom session , Offer holder Zoom session .
Applicants to Executive Programmes can book specialist Zoom sessions here.
Applicants to the School of Public Policy can also book specialist Zoom sessions: Prospective students here and Offer holders here .
Please ensure you keep track of the Current Processing times page .
There are many resources available to you to keep up to date with your application, and to keep abreast of any updates.
Application Tracker
Knowledge Base
Graduate Admissions News
Offer Holder Newsletters
Current Processing Times
Some of you are booking sessions to ask about non Admissions related queries.
For these, we would ask that you liaise directly with the relevant team as they will be able to provide you with the necessary information:
Accommodation
ISVAT (Visas and Immigration)
Fees
Financial Support
Departmental queries
Live chat will usually be available to graduate offer holders at the following times:
Monday: 12pm-1pm (London, UK time)
Tuesday: 1pm-2pm (London, UK time)
Wednesday: 2pm-3pm (London, UK time)
Thursday: 3pm-4pm (London, UK time)
To access Livechat you will need to be logged in to the Knowledgebase, and use the Livechat option.
Outside of these hours, please submit an enquiry via the Knowledgebase and we'll get back to you by email as soon as we can.
The Knowledge Base is a regularly updated resource covering all aspects of the admissions process.
We answer common, and less common, queries, regarding applying to LSE, meeting conditions, supplying your documents, and much much more.
The Knowledge base is searchable, and will suggest answers related to your search terms, or you can navigate it by clicking through the links at the top of each section.
If you cannot find your answer on the knowledge base, you will also be given options to get in touch with the relevant team at LSE, including submitting an email enquiry to the Graduate Admissions team - but the vast majority of queries do have an answer within the knowledge base.
When the Admissions Office is closed you can view our FAQ's in the knowledge base or submit a query, and use the forms within the Graduate Applicant Portal.
We will deal with your queries in the order they are received once we are back in the office.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/careers:
Get the latest careers education tips and event info.
Find alumni insights, top tips, and event recaps.
Browse upcoming events, book an appointment, or search for a job.
Student and general enquiries 020 7955 7135
Employer enquiries 020 7107 5293
Student and general enquiries careers@lse.ac.uk
Employer enquiries careers.employers@lse.ac.uk
London School of Economics and Political Science, Houghton Street, Holborn, London, WC2A 2AE
Cookie Settings
Cookie-policy

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/intranet/students/LSE-Life/lseLIFE.aspx:
So many opportunities, so many choices, so much to explore.
Think of us as your personal guide to LSE - helping you find the skills, experiences, and opportunities that are right for you during your time here.
We're here for you online and on the Ground Floor of the Library.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Graduate/News:
Last updated: 9 May 2025
Graduate Application for 2025/6
The graduate application for the new academic cycle is now available.
If you are applying for an executive or visiting research programme falling into the 2024/25 academic year (starting in November 2024 or early 2025), you can still apply using the new application form.
Graduate Applicant Portal - You can access the portal to see your application status, to send us documents and to request changes to your application.
You need to set up a public account on LSE for You, which gives you the right credentials.
Follow the instructions on your invitation email to set up your account and access the portal.
Don't forget that you need to use the portal to apply for LSE funding and to respond to any offer!
Please see the latest COVID-19 FAQ published by NHS England which answers questions related to student COVID-19 vaccinations in England.
New applicants should follow the advice in our Prospective students section, and look out for the Admissions Vlogs - new videos coming soon!
We have a new page to cover the most common queries we have recieved this week.
Check it out here at Top Ten Topics of the Week .
We will then send you a further email each time there is an update to the status of your application, including any requests for further information and the programme selectors’ decision on your application.
For advice about later stages in the cycle, please read the following advice:
The Graduate Admissions team is working via a blended model.
All of our systems are online, so we prefer not to receive paper documents, unless that is your only option for supplying independently verifiable official copies, and you must seek permission to send your documents via post.
The best way for you to meet any requirements set out in your offer letter is for you to either:
Share your document with us via an online verification service, such as Digitary, CHESICC (for degrees studied in P.R.
China) or eScrip-Safe.
Send a secure, digitally signed PDF.
Share your test scores with us by supplying your TRF number (IELTS) or appointment number (TOEFL, GMAT, GRE), or by sharing your Duolingo results with graduate.documents@lse.ac.uk
Ask your institution/referee to email your documents to us directly at graduate.documents@lse.ac.uk
Please do not send documents via multiple routes; duplication causes delay.
Other things to note
If you have recently shared official test results via ETS or GMAC, please self report these using the Graduate Applicant Portal.
We can then verify your results.
For TOEFL results we require you to provide your name , a ppointment number and date of birth .
For GRE results, we require you to provide your name , date of birth and registration number.
We send all decisions out as emails only.
All of the information you need is in your offer email, and the offer pack is available online (to everyone) at lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Graduate/Offer-holders .
The email is official notification of your offer.
There have been a few changes to the 2025/26 Table of Fees , specifically as follows:
We understand that there may be additional barriers to providing documents or funding studies for those of you domiciled in Ukraine, Gaza or other conflict zones.
We would like to make you aware of our Access to Education scholarships, for asylum seekers and refugees.
Further details can be found here .
If you struggle to obtain documents while completing your application, we can accept screenshots of your grades (from an online portal).
We may also be able to make allowances for those struggling to obtain references or copies of their documentation to meet conditions - please complete the extenuating circumstances form on the Graduate Applicant Portal and we will respond to you as soon as possible.
How we support our students - what you should know:
In exceptional circumstances if you are unable to take one of our preferred tests, it may be possible for you to take an alternative test such as Duolingo or IELTS Indicator and supplement your score by taking the LSE Language Centre Assessment.
To request this option, you should complete the extenuating circumstances form on the GAP, giving the reasons why you are unable to take one of the tests below.
Appointments for the LSE LCA are limited and we cannot accommodate people who simply prefer to take this route, or who have had difficulty achieving the required score.
LSE does not allow deferrals from one academic year to the next unless in exceptional circumstances due to unexpected medical or global events.
If you decide that you do not wish to take up your place, you should instead reinstate your application for consideration in the following year.
As someone who was previously offered a place it is very likely that you will again be made an offer, but it is fairer to be considered alongside the cohort for entry in the year you actually intend to study.
Please note that for technical reasons it is not possible to reinstate your application more than once.
If you wish to be considered for a third cycle, you need then to apply from scratch in that year.
LSE continues to be the top-rated university in London, according to the latest Complete University Guide .
Find out more here .
If circumstances beyond your control are having an adverse effect on making your application or meeting your offer conditions, you can let us know using the extenuating circumstances form on the GAP.
We will offer what practical advice and help we can.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/global-programmes/study-locally:
LSE partners with over 30 University of London Recognised Teaching Centres across the globe, which provide tuition and support for students.
This option is ideal for students who prefer the structured support and in-person peer network of a traditional learning environment.
Some institutions offer these programmes in parallel with their own degrees, meaning that students graduate with a local degree and a University of London degree.
There are three distinct Global Programme pathways that Recognised Teaching Centres can offer their students when they partner with us.
The Bachelor of Science degree is a full degree programme leading to a BSc qualification awarded by the University of London.
Centres can also offer Graduate Diplomas and a Certificate of Higher Education in Social Sciences (CHESS).
Please refer to your local teaching centre to confirm which programmes they offer.
Bachelor’s degrees are based on LSE’s internal undergraduate programmes taught on campus.
There are 12 degrees to choose from, spanning LSE’s specialisms across the social sciences.
The BSc programmes are offered via two study routes:
The Standard Route is for students embarking on their first undergraduate degree.
Students on this route can complete their degree within three to six years.
The Graduate Route is for students who already have an undergraduate degree.
This route provides a fast-track opportunity to earn a degree in just two years and is of particular interest to students who wish to take their study or career in a different direction to their first degree.
Students on this route can complete their degree within two to six years.
The CHESS is a standalone one-year qualification that also serves as an entry route to the bachelor’s degrees for students who do not meet the direct entry requirements.
The CHESS is a Level 4 CertHE qualification and is equivalent to the first year of a bachelor’s degree.
Students on CHESS can complete within one to three years.
On successful completion, it enables students to progress onto the second year of their chosen degree, meaning that students can earn a BSc in the same amount of time as students who start a BSc in their first year.
These undergraduate-level diplomas are designed for graduates seeking additional education in a different subject area without pursuing a full second degree.
They are roughly equivalent to the final year of the bachelor’s degree, and students earn a Level 6 Graduate Diploma.
Students on Graduate Diplomas can complete within one to five years.
The diplomas are of particular interest to those looking to upskill, enhance their career prospects, or change professions.
Independent Learners are provided with the same comprehensive online study materials that are available to students enrolled at Recognised Teaching Centres.
This ensures that all learners have access to high-quality educational resources, regardless of their learning path.
However, unlike their counterparts at Recognised Teaching Centres, Independent Learners engage in self-directed study.
Independent Learners do not receive direct tuition or instructional support from the faculty at Recognised Teaching Centres.
Instead, they must rely on their own initiative and discipline to navigate the course content, manage their study schedules, and seek out additional resources or assistance as needed.
Examinations are taken online in a live remote proctored environment.
This approach offers greater flexibility and autonomy, allowing learners to tailor their education to their personal schedules and learning preferences.
Students who would like the flexibility of this mode but would like to benefit from live online sessions and direct support from Class Teachers, should explore our online degrees .

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/global-programmes/study-online:
The online taught mode offers students the flexibility to pursue their studies from any location, making it an ideal option for those who need to balance their education with other commitments.
This mode combines the benefits of live online sessions, where class teachers deliver interactive and engaging lessons, with the freedom of independent, self-paced study.
During the live sessions, students can participate in real-time discussions, ask questions, and receive immediate feedback from their instructors, fostering a collaborative learning environment.
Outside of these scheduled sessions, students have the opportunity to delve deeper into the course material at their own pace, allowing them to review and absorb the content thoroughly.
This blended approach ensures that students receive structured guidance and support while also developing the skills necessary for self-directed learning.
There are four annual intakes for online taught programmes:
We encourage you to submit your application by the priority deadline for your preferred programme, or as soon as it is ready.
Our admissions panel reviews applications on a rolling basis, so we're ready to assess your application when you're ready to submit it.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/global-programmes/find-a-programme:
To find out more about our different study modes, visit our study locally and study online pages.
Showing 1-12 results of 28

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/global-programmes/about-global-programmes:
LSE is a proud member of the University of London (UoL), a unique federation of 17 of some of the world’s most prestigious universities and institutions.
Established by Royal Charter in 1836, the University of London was the first university to admit students regardless of their gender, race or religion, with a diverse, global alumni community that includes multiple Nobel prize winners.
The University of London is also a global pioneer in transnational distance learning, delivering world-class education to students around the world since 1865.
As one of the world's foremost social science universities, LSE has partnered with UoL to provide academic direction for online or in-country credit-bearing undergraduate degrees, diplomas and certificates in the disciplines of Economics, Management, Finance and Social Sciences.
LSE faculty are responsible for:
Students who study these programmes join a long-established tradition of academic excellence.
They gain access to world-class content and resources that harness the full expertise of LSE faculty.
Through LSE’s curriculum they gain cutting-edge knowledge, global perspectives and interdisciplinary insights, for transformational impact.
LSE brings a research expertise honed over more than 100 years to educate for global impact.
Our Global Programmes give access to world-class higher education to a community of over 9,000 learners in more than 25 countries worldwide.
Our Global Programmes are overseen by LSE’s world-leading faculty who design and manage the content and assessment of each course to ensure alignment with our on-campus offerings in London.
Each course has an LSE faculty convenor, and each programme is overseen by full-time LSE faculty who serve as programme coordinators.
Academic Director of Global Programmes, and Assistant Professor of Economics at LSE
Dr Nava’s research interests include economic theory, social networks, and industrial organisation.
At LSE, he teaches courses such as Economic Theory and its Applications, and Microeconomics.
He holds a PhD in Economics from the University of Chicago.
Associate Academic Director Global Programmes, and Associate Professor in Statistics at LSE
Dr Abdey gained his PhD from LSE and teaches undergraduate courses in mathematical statistics and quantitative methods, as well as courses in market research at LSE.
His research interests include market research techniques and forensic statistics - the interplay of statistics and the law.
Dr Abdey has played a significant role in developing the UoL BSc Data Science and Business Analytics (DSBA) programme.
Associate Professor of Management at LSE
Dr Rothe specialises in economics of strategy and competition, managerial economics, industrial economics, and game theory.
He studied economics and management at the Universities of Regensburg and Bonn in Germany and holds both an MSc and a PhD in Economics from LSE.
Associate Professor of Economics at LSE
Dr Schafgans specialises in theoretical and applied microeconometrics, with a focus on semiparametric and nonparametric estimation techniques.
Her research interests also include spatial econometrics and development economics.
Dr Schafgans earned her PhD in Economics from Yale University.
Associate Professor in International Relations at LSE
Dr Sedelmeier has held various fellowships and visiting professorships at institutions such as the European University Institute in Florence and the University of Copenhagen.
His research focuses on the domestic impact of international institutions and the compliance of member states with these institutions.
He obtained his MA and PhD from the University of Sussex.
Professor of Finance at LSE
Professor Cuñat’s research interests include corporate finance, corporate governance, banking, applied theory, applied econometrics, industrial organization, and labour and personnel economics.
He earned his PhD in Economics from the London School of Economics and Political Science.
Professor of Statistics at LSE
Professor Moustaki’s work focuses on the development of statistical methodology for analysing large and complex data sets.
She has co-authored books on latent variable models and multivariate data analysis and is co-founder of the Psychometric Lab in the Department of Statistics.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/global-programmes/faqs:
Below are answers to some of the most common questions we get asked.
If you still can’t find the answers you need, please contact:
To apply for one of our online programmes you should follow these steps:
If you have any questions on applying to study online,
please email admissions@onlinecourses.london.ac.uk .
Follow these steps to apply for your chosen degree, diploma or certificate at a local teaching centre:
If you have any further questions on the study local application process, please contact the University of London admissions team .
Requirements will depend on the programme you choose and can
be found on each programme page via the University of London programme finder .
Exact documentation needed will depend on your own personal situation, but generally we will require:
Yes, but you might need to provide further evidence to confirm your proficiency.
The following awards satisfy our English language requirements for all undergraduate courses (Postgraduate language requirements differ by course):
For a full list of acceptable awards and proficiency tests,
please view the full English requirements .
Your fees will depend on which course you choose and the mode of study.
Below are some indicative costs for both our online and locally
taught study modes.
A more detailed breakdown of costs is available via each programme
page ( Find your programme ).
Study Locally
There is a non-refundable application fee of £65 for all locally taught applications.
Students are also expected to pay a fee to their local teaching centre.
* Graduates are required to take 9 modules instead of the standard 12, in recognition of prior learning.
Study Online
The indicative total programme fees reflect average annual fee increases and assume you complete your programme within the minimum time, without resits.
There is no application fee for online study modes.
Yes, there is a wide range of financial support available depending on your mode of study.
For students studying at a local teaching centre, please refer to their webpages for more information.
There are other options available for students who require financial assistance, including:
For further information please visit the University of London Funding your Study page.
LSE provides academic direction for the University of London’s undergraduate-level programmes in the disciplines of Economics, Management, Finance and Social Sciences (EMFSS).
This means LSE designs the curriculum, sets and marks exams, and ensures academic rigour—though it does not teach students directly.
These programmes are delivered online or through local teaching centres worldwide.
Students graduate with a University of London degree, with LSE’s academic direction noted on the diploma.
This model enables learners globally to access a world-class education shaped by LSE’s expertise, without the need to study on-campus in London.
All students will be given access to a Virtual Learning Environment (VLE), where you can access your study materials after you have received your offer and completed your online registration.
You can find your local teaching centres here .
You will become a student of University of London and your local Recognised Teaching Centre.
Academic direction is by LSE (‘academic direction’ includes the design of the programme, programme materials and the content and marking of your assessments).
When you complete your programme, you will receive a qualification and certificate from the University of London, which states the role of the LSE, and you will be an alumna/alumnus of the University of London.
The final diploma will indicate that you were awarded a University of London degree and include the name of the federation member (LSE) that conducted the examinations.
The University of London logo and signature of the Vice-Chancellor are incorporated.
You will also receive a Diploma Supplement, which describes the nature, level and content of the programme you completed.
It includes a transcript of courses taken, the marks achieved and the overall classification.
It also provides further information about the role of LSE and the method of study.
There are several ways you can make the most of your programme’s affiliation with LSE and the University of London during your studies.
Global Programmes students can attend LSE Summer School to experience life on campus and earn credits towards their
University of London qualification.
Global Programmes students are entitled to
claim exclusive discounts on their Summer School fees – 40% off two courses, or
15% off one course.
Students who have completed the equivalent of at least four
full courses on their Global Programme are also able to apply for admission to
the LSE General Course , which allows students to spend a full academic year at LSE
and transfer credit to the University of London programme.
Global Programmes students are welcome to apply to the
second year of entry of a relevant degree at LSE.
Students should bear in mind
that transfer is not automatic and is highly competitive, given that LSE is
restricted to numbers for both first and second year entries.
Further information on second year entry can be found here .
Find out more about pathways to LSE .
Every year, LSE welcomes alumni of the programmes to pursue postgraduate studies.
They join a diverse, challenging and intellectually stimulating community on campus and participate in projects, discussions and events with fellow students, academics, and key contributors from a diverse range of disciplines, enjoying full exposure to some of the most cutting-edge and exciting thinking and research in social science.
Around 25 graduates pursue a master’s degree at LSE every year, and merit-based scholarships exclusive to Global Programmes Alumni are available.
Yes, students who are awarded a qualification will be invited to the annual University of London graduation ceremony in London.
An email invitation will be sent with instructions on how to register and secure guest tickets.
Find out more about previous graduation ceremonies, and see
images and videos from the day, on the University of London website .
If you have recently completed your studies, but not received an invite, please contact universityevents@london.ac.uk .
Graduates are also invited to attend a graduation reception at LSE, where they and their families can celebrate their achievement with fellow graduates and senior LSE academics.
Many teaching centres offer the programmes as single awards, meaning that students graduate with one degree from the University of London, that is examined and assessed by LSE.
Our undergraduate degrees lead to a Bachelor of Science qualification from the University of London.
A parallel degree award, also referred to as a ‘double degree’ or ‘dual degree’, is a flexible academic pathway that enables students to earn two separate degrees simultaneously—one from the University of London and another from their home institution.
This model involves aligning the curricula of both institutions, and students typically need to complete two sets of assessments to fulfil the requirements for each degree independently.
Please note, not all local teaching centres offer a parallel degree award.
Further information can be found on their respective websites or by contacting the teaching centres directly.
Distance education (also known as distance learning) is a mode of study where students and instructors are not physically present in the same location.
Instead, learning takes place remotely, using the Virtual Learning Environment.
The online taught mode of the University of London’s Global Programme is classed as distance education.
TNE stands for Transnational Education.
TNE refers to educational programmes delivered in a country other than the one where the awarding institution is based.
For example, the University of London’s Global Programme is a TNE programme because it is offered globally through local teaching centres and distance learning, but the degree is awarded by the University of London, with academic direction from LSE.
EMFSS stands for Economics, Management, Finance and the Social Sciences.
It refers to the suite of undergraduate programmes offered by the University of London, with academic direction from the London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE).
A Recognised Teaching Centre (RTC) is a partner institution that has been formally approved to support students studying University of London programmes.
These institutions provide face-to-face tuition, teaching the academic content produced by LSE.
To become recognised, an institution must meet a rigorous set of quality criteria including standards for teaching quality, staffing, student experience, academic management and facilities.
RTCs are monitored to ensure they maintain high standards and provide students with a world-class teaching and learning experience.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/global-programmes/pathways-to-lse:
As a Global Programmes student, you will be able to take advantage of further opportunities to learn with LSE, both on campus in London or online, in addition to studying at another Recognised Teaching Centre within our global network.
Explore the opportunities to learn from world-leading LSE academics and scholarship opportunities exclusively for you.
The Global Programmes Summer Session is your chance to complete part of your degree at LSE.
Spending six weeks in London at LSE Summer School, you will:
Global Programmes students receive a 40 percent discount on tuition fees for two Summer School courses.
Completing these courses can earn you 30 credits towards your Global Programmes degree.
Summer School runs between June and August each year.
Students who have completed at least four full courses on their University of London Global Programmes degree programme are also able to apply for admission to the LSE General Course, which allows students from across the world to spend a full academic year at LSE and claim credit for the successful completion of relevant courses.
Before applying, you should pay close attention to the start date of your Global Programmes programme and the dates at which you will receive your course results, and how this aligns with the LSE General Course start date (or year of entry).
Global Programmes students are welcome to apply to the 2nd year of entry of a relevant undergraduate degree at LSE.
Please bear in mind that transfer is not automatic and admission is highly competitive, as a limited number of places are available for both first and second year entries.
To pursue this option, you should ensure to select courses on your Global Programme carefully.
Your courses should match the content of the first year of the LSE internal degree you wish to transfer to, as closely as possible.
You should also pay close attention to the start date of your programme and the dates at which you will receive your course results, and how this aligns with the application deadline and start date of the LSE programme you wish to transfer to.
You would then apply through UCAS in the normal way, stating that you wish to apply for second year entry.
Please note: It is NOT possible to transfer into the second year of the following programmes:
This also applies to LLB programmes and the third year of any LSE programme.
A number of Global Programmes graduates choose to continue their studies at LSE by applying to complete a postgraduate qualification.
As an LSE postgraduate student, you would be exposed to state-of-the-art social sciences research, and have the opportunity to learn from the academics at the forefront of that research.
By undertaking a postgraduate qualification at LSE, you will be able to pursue your interests in an intellectually stimulating and challenging environment while contributing to the LSE community’s daily intellectual life - participating in projects, discussions and events with fellow students, academics, and key contributors from across disciplines.
Global Programmes students who have been accepted onto a master’s degree at LSE can apply for a partial scholarship, which is awarded on the basis of academic merit and contributes towards tuition fees.
Two scholarships are awarded each year to Global Programmes graduates who are accepted onto a postgraduate course at LSE.
To apply, please email the Global Programmes office at LSE: uolip@lse.ac.uk .
As part of the Global Programmes degree, students may have the opportunity to spend a year abroad at another institution within our international network.
This enriching experience allows you to explore a new country while earning academic credit towards your degree.
Please note that this option is not available at all of our Recognised Teaching Centres, so we recommend speaking with your local institution to find out more.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/global-programmes/find-your-local-teaching-centre:
If you prefer in-person learning, our Recognised Teaching Centres offer a supportive and engaging learning environment.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/global-programmes/study-locally/how-to-become-a-recognised-teaching-centre:
Institutions that partner with LSE and the University of London join an elite, vibrant and fast-growing global community of academic excellence that is committed to accelerating access to education of the very highest calibre.
Our programmes will complement your own portfolio, providing choice, opportunity and an international qualification for your students.
Becoming a Recognised Teaching Centre (RTC) carries a raft of benefits both for institutions and the student communities that they serve:
Our collaboration with the University of London and LSE on double degree bachelor programmes has significantly elevated the educational standards at our school and in Serbia in general.
These programmes offer students exceptional opportunities to study world-class curricula in Belgrade and obtain prestigious degrees.
Many graduates have advanced to pursue master’s studies at top global universities or embarked on successful careers with esteemed companies both in Serbia and abroad.
At LSE we work closely with prospective partners to conduct rigorous quality checks, assess viability and set you up for success as a programme partner.
We’d be delighted to connect with you to discuss partnership opportunities.
Erika Gallacher e.gallacher@lse.ac.uk South Asia, Latin America and Middle East
Miles Davies m.j.davies@lse.ac.uk Africa, East Asia, Central Asia and Türkiye
Rob Igglesden r.igglesden@lse.ac.uk Europe, Pakistan, Southeast Asia

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/executive-education/programmes:
Change view:
8 weeks
Next application deadline: 29 Jul 2025
6 Aug 2025
Online
1 week, full-time
Next application deadline: 25 Aug 2025
8 Sept 2025
On campus
3 weeks
Next application deadline: 26 Aug 2025
1 Sept 2025
6 weeks
Next application deadline: 9 Sept 2025
17 Sept 2025
Next application deadline: 16 Sept 2025
22 Sept 2025
6 months
Next application deadline: 13 Oct 2025
20 Oct 2025
Applications are closed
16 weeks
Fully booked
8 Sept 2025 & 1 Jun 2026
8 Sept 2025 &
3 Sept 2025
Next application deadline: 2 Sept 2025
10 Sept 2025
10 weeks
24 Sept 2025

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/executive-education/business-management-and-leadership:
Whether it's honing strategic leadership capabilities, mastering innovative management techniques, or fostering a deep understanding of global business trends, our programmes are tailored to empower executives with the tools needed to navigate complex challenges and drive sustainable growth.
LSE's Business, Management and Leadership Executive Education programmes are designed to equip professionals with the knowledge and skills required to excel in today's dynamic and competitive business landscape.
Led by our world-class faculty, renowned for their expertise and real-world experience, our programmes offer a transformative learning experience with lasting impact.
Through interactive sessions, case studies and experiential learning opportunities, participants gain practical skills, strategic acumen, and a global perspective that enhances their leadership capabilities.
Build the skills, strategy and credibility to lead AI transformation
Understand today what it takes to lead tomorrow.
Next application deadline: 1 Aug 2025
Leverage new techniques and frameworks to tell the story of your brand
Next application deadline: 20 Oct 2025
Harness the benefits of diversity for organisational success.
Next application deadline: 4 May 2026
Spot entrepreneurial opportunities, master the start-up process, learn to raise capital and to realise your goals as an entrepreneur
Create lasting and positive change for your organisation
Gain the expert insights and the strategic, leadership and entrepreneurial tools to create economic value while driving meaningful social impact.
Build the understanding, competencies and resilience to not only manage risk in your organisation, but to lead it.
Next application deadline: 18 May 2026
Build world-class negotiation skills and optimise business outcomes for all stakeholders
Build the skills and knowledge to navigate the road ahead with confidence and clarity.
Navigate the science behind inclusivity.
Use data-driven, evidence-based methods to create a culture of collaboration and engagement in your organisation.
Grow as an authentic and transformational leader, equipped with the practical skills to guide an organisation and its employees through times of change.
Develop essential people management skills to manage, motivate, and drive the engagement of talent and teams.
Next application deadline: 4 Nov 2025
Gain holistic business and leadership skills to become a better manager, with this essential toolkit for the contemporary business environment.
Maximise your negotiation skills for business and career success in this six-week online course.
Next application deadline: 7 Oct 2025
Develop strategies to better prepare your organisation for the future, with an interdisciplinary perspective on risk and crisis management.
Develop your strategic communications skill set to become a leader for change in your organisation
Next application deadline: 14 Oct 2025
Develop practical tools and approaches to help navigate the complexities, challenges, and opportunities involved in communicating about sustainability.
Explore a multidisciplinary approach to sustainability and develop practical strategies towards a more sustainable future.
Gain the entrepreneurial skills, tools and knowledge to drive positive change and measure your social impact.
Navigate the psychology and impact of AI for your organisation.
Developed in collaboration with leading tech companies, this programme prepares you to accelerate your career with industry-relevant data skills and a portfolio of work to showcase your expertise.
Gain the skills, confidence and credentials to lead data-driven digital marketing strategies that drive real business results.
Enhance your understanding of data and technology within the HR department and take your organisation to the next level.
Next application deadline: 30 Sept 2025
Professor Alex Gillespie
Professor of Psychological and Behavioural Science
Professor Amitav Chakravarti
Professor of Marketing
Dr Aurelie Cnop-Nielsen
LSE Fellow
Dr Barbara Fasolo
Associate Professor of Behavioural Science
Brittany Jones
Dr Christian Krekel
Assistant Professor
Professor Connson Locke
Professor (Education) of Management | Deputy Head of Department (Teaching and Learning)
Professor Daniela Lup
Associate Professor of Human Relations and Organisational Behaviour at ESCP Europe
Dr Dario Krpan
Associate Professor
Dr Emma Soane
Assistant Professor of Management
Dr Grace Lordan
Dr Jonathan E.
Booth
Associate Professor of Organisational Behaviour and Human Resource Management
Professor Jonathan Roberts
Teaching Director and Senior Lecturer in Practice
Dr Julia Morley
Assistant Professor of Accounting
Kerryn Krige
Senior Lecturer in Practice
Dr Kristóf Madarász
Associate Professor in Managerial Economics and Strategy
Dr Laura Giurge
Professor Lourdes Sosa
Professor Martin Lodge
Professor of Political Science and Public Policy
Professor Mike Power
Professor of Accounting at LSE and Fellow of the British Academy.
Professor Paul Willman
Emeritus Professor of Management
Professor Sir Julian Le Grand
Professor of Social Policy
Professor Stephan Chambers
Director and Professor in Practice LSE Department of Management
Dr Susanna Khavul
Leverhulme Trust Visiting Professor
Dr Tom Reader
Dr Umar Taj
Associate Professor in Behavioural Science
Professor Lee Edwards
Professor of Strategic Communications and Public Engagement
Dr Claire Forbes
Guest Teacher in the Department of Media and Communications
Dr Marion Dumas
Assistant Professorial Research Fellow
Hear Dr Laura Giurge from our ‘Creating Inclusive Organisations’ programme provide a brief overview of her research into simple adjustments we can make to our hiring process to reduce gender bias.
" It was such a fantastic experience for me.
It was planned and delivered incredibly well: the combination of learning and the social aspect made it a stand-out week.
"
Amy Nicholson , Marcom Manager, Microsoft
" I would recommend the programme to any leader looking to cut through the noise and the soundbites and lead the future with assurance and purpose.
Barry Johnston , Global Brand Communications Director, Adidas
" LSE has an outstanding reputation and I wanted to ensure that I attended a course with high-calibre teaching.
Taking time out of the day job is a big decision and so for me it had to be with an organisation with a solid academic reputation and LSE was the perfect fit.
Gemma Burton‑Connolly , Company Secretary (Interim Executive Director), Abri
" There were people attending the course that had thirty years’ experience and they were still learning new skills every day.
It doesn’t matter what level you are at, there is definitely value for you on this programme.
Karl Murray , Senior Strategic Account Executive, Salesforce
Sign up to get more information

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/executive-education/data-and-technology:
As data becomes increasingly essential in today's business landscape, the disparity between data reliance and professionals' proficiency in utilising it effectively widens.
Ensuring your teams can leverage data to guide strategic decisions and communicate impactful business insights is imperative to future proof your organisation.
At LSE, our Data and Technology Executive Education programmes are at the forefront of empowering professionals with the knowledge and skills needed to thrive in an increasingly data-driven and technologically advanced business environment.
Our distinguished faculty, renowned for their expertise and cutting edge research, deliver insights that directly impacts participants' professional growth and organisational success.
Whether it's understanding the intricacies of big data analytics, mastering the application of artificial intelligence in business, or navigating the complexities of cyber security, our programmes are tailored to equip participants with the latest tools and strategies essential to succeed in the modern digital landscape.
Discover how to use data science and AI to make more intelligent decisions
Master the knowledge, analytics and tactics to lead the competition
Develop in-demand data visualisation and analysis skills to elevate your career in a data-driven world.
Explore the policy strategies driving AI governance.
Build the skills, strategy and credibility to lead AI transformation — no technical background required
Develop the skills you need to analyse, interpret and communicate data with confidence and impact within your organisation.
Gain the skills to navigate and critically analyse the changing legal environment that is shaping data, law and policy.
Develop the tools and skills to practise ethical reasoning and manage the diverse impacts of AI on individuals and society.
Explore machine learning techniques to optimise your data analyses for informed business decision-making.
Navigating the psychology and impact of AI
Find out both how to transform businesses with AI as well as the associated risks
In 2019, the world changed.
But the pandemic wasn't the only tectonic shift in human experience and enterprise that year.
Out of the immediate spotlight, another major transformation was taking place.
Professor Edgar Whitley
Professor of Information Systems, Department of Management
Professor Kenneth Benoit
Professor of Computational Social Science and Director of the LSE Data Science Institute
Professor Om Narasimhan
Dr James Abdey
Associate Professor (Education)
Dr Christine Yuen
Assistant Professorial Lecturer in Statistics
Dr Milena Tsvetkova
Associate Professor of Computational Social Science
Dr Blake Miller
Assistant Professor of Computational Social Science
Dr Kostas Kalogeropoulos
Associate Professor and MSc Statistics Programme Director
Dr Yining Chen
Dr Xinghao Qiao
Associate Professor of Statistics
Dr Edgar Whitley gives an overview of some of the ethical considerations we should be aware of when implementing AI tools in business.
" Six months on from the programme, it’s already had a big impact on my work.
I’m speaking the language of a quantitative analyst and I can’t put a price on the confidence that’s given me in my conversations.
Muzz Adams , Head of Performance, Investec Asset Management

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/executive-education/finance-accounting-and-economics:
LSE enjoys a global reputation for the quality of its teaching and research in the fields of Economics, Finance and Accounting.
Staying on top of rapidly evolving industry trends, regulation and financial technologies is key for financial professionals to maintain their competitive edge and effectively navigate the complexities of today's economic landscape.
At LSE, our Finance, Accounting and Economics Executive Education programmes stand at the forefront of global excellence, offering a transformative learning experience for executives seeking to advance their expertise in these critical fields.
Our expert faculty, renowned for their ground-breaking research and real-world insights, deliver cutting-edge knowledge that directly impacts participants' professional growth and organisational success.
Whether it is Finance, Economics or Accounting, our programmes are meticulously designed to provide practical skills, strategic thinking and a deep understanding of the latest industry trends.
enabling participants to update their knowledge and navigate the evolving, complex financial landscape.
Whether mastering financial strategies, fine-tuning accounting practices, or analysing economic trends, LSE’s Finance, Accounting and Economics Executive Education programmes empower executives to excel in their respective fields and drive impactful change within their organisation
Re-imagine the future of finance and investment
Uncover the psychology that drives human decision-making and make better decisions of your own.
You emerge with the insights, tools and frameworks to accelerate your own decision-making.
Leverage the tools of finance, capital structure and valuation to accelerate your strategic decision-making.
Accelerate your career in the investment management industry with this highly interactive course.
Build the understanding, master the frameworks and learn to speak the language of finance
Next application deadline: 15 Feb 2026
Leverage financial statement data to make better investment decisions
Successfully navigate today’s fixed income markets with the clarity and confidence to drive competitive advantage.
Understand the events, the key players, the economic complexities and the risks that will shape the world economy.
Learn to maximise opportunities and mitigate risk stemming from global events with expert commentary and insights from LSE thought-leaders.
Navigate the realities of securing funding for your venture as you follow a business’s evolution from start-up to exit strategy.
Develop a financial and managerial accounting toolkit to inform business decision-making and enhance organisational performance.
Develop an understanding of the crucial frameworks and tools of modern corporate finance to make better managerial and investment decisions.
Gain the theoretical knowledge and practical skills to make more informed real estate investment decisions.
Professor Ricardo Reis
Arthur Williams Phillips Professor of Economics
Professor Dirk Jenter
Professor of Finance
Professor Daniel Ferreira
Professor of Finance | Head of Department
Professor Paul De Grauwe
John Paulson Chair in European Political Economy
Dr Richard Perkins
Associate Professor of Environmental Geography
Brunello Rosa
Visiting Professor, Course Coordinator
Dr Stefano Cascino
Associate Professor of Accounting
Dr Maria Correia
Dr Ashwini Agrawal
Associate Professor of Finance
Dr Vicente Cuñat
Professor Martin Oehmke
Dr Ethan Ilzetzki
Professor Christopher Polk
Professor Jean-Paul Faguet
Professor of the Political Economy of Development
Dr Victoria Paniagua
Assistant Professor in International Political Economy
Dr Christine Côté
Associate Professor (Education) of International Business
Dr Juanita Gonzalez-Uribe
Saipriya Kamath
Associate Professor (Education) - BSc Programme Director
Hear Professor Martin Oehmke give a brief overview of his latest research into Socially Responsible Investing.
As one of the biggest trends in finance over the last decade, Martin assesses whether approaches taken to date are having enough of an impact, and whether businesses need to be willing to sacrifice more of their financial return to have an impact.
" I was able to apply the course theory and practicalities instantly in my everyday work.
A good kick-starter.
Okke Loman , Venture Builder, ING
" The wide variety of people, companies and issues represented within the cohort means that different participants present with an interesting range of investment strategies "
Henning Prigge , Henning Prigge is the Head of Acquisition & Asset Management, InvestInvent AG (Germany)

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/executive-education/health:
LSE's Health Executive Education programmes are designed to equip professionals in the healthcare industry with the expertise and skills necessary to navigate the rapidly evolving landscape of healthcare delivery, policy, and management.
Led by our renowned faculty members, recognized for their research and practical insights, our programmes provide a comprehensive learning experience that directly impacts participants’ professional development and organizational success in the healthcare sector.
Through interactive sessions, case studies, and experiential learning opportunities, participants gain practical skills, strategic thinking abilities, and a deep understanding of the latest developments in the healthcare sector.
By engaging with a diverse group of peers from around the world, participants also benefit from valuable networking opportunities and gain insights into global healthcare practices.
Learn how to design, analyse, and interpret cost-effectiveness models in healthcare.
Gain the knowledge and strategies for successful pharmaceutical market access
Next application deadline: 8 Aug 2025
Gain a comprehensive overview of the issues facing the healthcare industry through the lens of economics, and learn how policy can be used to address contemporary global healthcare challenges.
Next application deadline: 23 Sept 2025
Professor Alistair McGuire
Professor of Health Economics at LSE Health and the Chair of LSE Health
Professor Allan Hackshaw
Professor of Epidemiology and Medical Statistics, CR UK & UCL Cancer Trials Centre
Dr Panos Kanavos
Deputy Director of LSE Health
Professor Elias Mossialos
Director LSE Health
Dr Ranjeeta Thomas
Associate Professor of Health Economics
Hear Dr Panos Kanavos give a brief overview of the themes and benefits of the Executive Education programme 'Market Access Academy'.
" I would certainly recommend this programme to colleagues.
It would be particularly valuable for colleagues who may not work in a policy or government affairs role, but who want to understand how they can contribute to positively shaping the external policy environment to increase access to medicines.
Alexander Best , Director, Regional Market Access Policy, Asia-Pacific, Janssen Inc.
" During my career so far, I have been working on established products and the products in my portfolio have already been on the market for many years.
This programme helped me to look to the future regarding new assets and new portfolios.
Pieter Mackaaij , Global Market Access & Pricing Lead, Sanofi
" I was looking for a rounded understanding of the opportunities in the field.
I left with a better view of the whole access universe.
Pablo Morales , Health Systems Strategy Lead, Roche
" The best thing about the programme was the way we were able to look at market access out of isolation.
We really put it into the context of how healthcare systems work, and in that way could really examine what the challenges are "
Ulrike Jacobi , External Affairs Lead, Amgen

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/executive-education/public-policy-law-and-government:
Whether it’s mastering the intricacies of public policy formulation, understanding the nuances of legal frameworks, or enhancing governance and leadership competencies, our programmes are tailored to equip participants with the tools needed to drive meaningful change within the public sector and related domains.
Led by our esteemed faculty, renowned for their expertise and industry influence, our programmes offer a transformative learning experience.
Through immersive learning experiences, interactive sessions, and case studies, participants gain practical skills, strategic acumen, and a deep understanding of the latest industry trends.
By engaging with a diverse cohort of global professionals, participants also benefit from unique networking opportunities and gain perspectives that transcend borders.
Critically analyse climate politics and investigate policy interventions and political strategies to accelerate sustainability transitions.
Explore the challenges and the solutions that will drive socially, economically and environmentally sustainable cities in the future.
Next application deadline: 25 May 2026
Explore the challenges, navigate the risks and unlock the opportunities that climate change represents for your organisation
Gain a multidisciplinary understanding of policy successes and challenges of developing countries, and learn to formulate solutions for sustainable growth.
Gain a foundational understanding of key economic frameworks, theories, and models to effectively design and analyse public policy.
Explore the policy challenges and solutions facing developing countries aiming to achieve inclusive and sustainable growth.
Gain practical skills and analytical frameworks for analysing, evaluating, and communicating public policy.
Explore public policy innovations and technology, and the strategies for transforming and addressing the challenges in policy making.
Explore the critical issues, challenges, strategies and techniques in regulation.
Consider regulation from a practical and multidisciplinary perspective as you gain the tools to critically assess the changing regulatory environment.
Gain a holistic overview of the key concepts, drivers, and frameworks of corporate transactions.
David Stainforth
Professorial Research Fellow
Professor Declan Conway
Professorial Research Follow
Professor Fran Tonkiss
Head of Department
Professor Jenny Pearce
Research Professor
Kath Scanlon
Distinguished Policy Fellow
Luca Taschini
Associate Professorial Research Fellow
Dr Philipp Rode
Executive Director of LSE Cities
Professor Ricky Burdett
Professor of Urban Studies, Director of LSE Cities and Urban Age
Professor Robert Baldwin
Emeritus Professor of Law
Dr Robert Falkner
Associate Professor of International Relations
Dr Savvas Verdis
Senior Research Fellow | Deputy Director, Executive Masters in Cities
Professor Simon Dietz
Professor of Environmental Policy
Dr Swenja Surminski
Head of Adaptation Research
Professor Andrew Murray
Professor of Law
Professor Alexander Evans OBE FRHistS
Associate Dean (Strategic Development), MPA in Data Science for Public Policy Programme Director
Dr Ayse Gizem Yasar de France
Assistant Professor (Education)
Professor Daniel Berliner
Professor Tony Travers
Professor in Practice
Dr Ryan Jablonski
Associate Professor of Political Science
Professor Robert Baldwin discusses his research into regulation and how moving to a more positive approach to regulation allows you target your regulatory strategies more precisely, which can allow regulatory outcomes to be met at lower costs.
" Networking is one of the most important keys to success in this field of regulation and attending the Regulation programme at LSE provided valuable networking opportunities.
André Luiz Zacarias Machado , Regulatory Affairs & Strategic Planning Manager, Brazil
" In three words, the programme was informative, engaging and fun.
The mix of people from all over the world, doing different jobs, in different structures and contexts is very interesting "
David Pilling , Head of Lobbying and Policy, Ombudsman Services
" It was an excellent experience studying at LSE.
It was not only the professional exchange that contributed to the success of this programme, but also the cultural exchange that led to a mutual understanding of the multi-faceted issues in the field of regulation.
I recommend this course to anyone who deals with regulatory issues in an international environment.
Dr Dennis Hampe, LLM , Head of Legal, Medac

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/executive-education/individual-solutions:
Our Individual Solutions are designed to cater to the specific needs and aspirations of professionals seeking to enhance their skills and knowledge independently.
Whether you're looking to deepen your expertise in a particular field, develop new competencies, or gain insights from world-renowned faculty, our tailored programmes offer the flexibility and personalised approach you need to achieve your goals.
Explore our diverse range of courses and discover how LSE Executive Education can empower you to lead with confidence and drive impactful change in your organisation.
Join us and take the next step in your professional development with the support of one of the world's leading institutions.
As you complete eligible programmes, you’ll also be working towards LSE Executive Education Associate status — gaining formal recognition, exclusive benefits, and access to a vibrant global network of professionals committed to lifelong learning.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/executive-education/business-solutions:
At LSE, we deliver transformational, world-class Executive Education programmes to companies and organisations looking to develop their talent and their competitive advantage with one of the world’s leading universities.
Our business solutions allow you to enjoy impact at scale.
We work with you to determine your needs and unlock the full potential of your organisation.
Our programmes are designed to ignite innovation, empower teams and drive growth.
Whether it’s on campus or online, a bespoke presentation or a group booking for our open programmes, we offer flexible solutions that can cascade learning and accelerate development through your organisation.
Shared learning experiences that leverage team dynamics, diversity and collaboration to deliver the knowledge and tools you need to thrive as an organisation.
If you would like to find out more about what we can do for your organisation, please get in touch via our enquiry form below or email us at exec.business@lse.ac.uk
Drive innovation through inclusive leadership
" The world is not arranged neatly into disciplines or subject areas.
Making sense of things means grasping the complex interconnectedness of business, geopolitics and socio-economics.
It’s about broadening your understanding in order to sharpen your focus.
Professor Wim Van der Stede , Dean, LSE Extended Education

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/executive-education/associate-status:
LSE Executive Education Associate status recognises and rewards your commitment to professional growth and lifelong learning at LSE.
By completing qualifying courses, you will gain formal recognition, exclusive benefits, and a lasting connection to the School.
As an associate, you will join a network of ambitious professionals who have deepened their expertise through LSE’s world-class short courses on campus or online.
Whether you're advancing your career, expanding your network, or continuing your learning journey, associate status keeps you engaged with LSE.
Earning LSE Executive Education associate status is simple.
You qualify by completing 3 credits within a 3-year period .
Every course you take earns you credits:
Custom programmes are also eligible.
Attending an in-person course lasting more than three days will gain 2 credits, while shorter programmes will gain 1 credit.
There’s no application process.
Once you earn 3 credits, we will automatically notify you and welcome you as an associate, unlocking your exclusive benefits.
However, if you believe you qualify but haven’t received confirmation, or if you haven’t opted into our communications, get in touch at exec.courses@lse.ac.uk.
Courses completed on or after 1 January 2023 contribute to your associate status.
Once you qualify as an associate, you will receive:
This is your opportunity to stay connected with leading experts, global professionals, and the wider LSE learning community all while continuing to advance your career.
Check out the wide range of eligible courses available and take the next step towards joining our growing professional community.
Whether you are just starting or continuing your learning journey, every course brings you closer associate status.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/executive-education/on-campus-open-programmes:
LSE’s intensive five-day on-campus programmes for leaders and managers deliver the very latest in academic theory, real-world industry insights and action-oriented takeaways.
They are transformative learning experiences that empower you to influence tomorrow by understanding today.
At LSE, we deliver transformational, world-class Executive Education programmes to companies and organisations looking to reshape the way they do business.
Explore our content, including thought leadership from our world-class faculty, participant experiences, our research and more
Find out any questions you may have about studying at LSE Executive Education, including visa specifications and programme information
Faculty Overview | Creating Inclusive Organisations
Faculty Overview | Leading Social Business: Purpose, Profit and Impact
Faculty Overview | Digital Marketing Strategy
We can't afford to wait: why we must adapt to our changing climate now
Joint Venture Negotiation | Inside the Executive Education Experience | LSE Executive Education
Exploring the Impact of Recent Regulatory Changes | Financial Statement Analysis & Equity Valuation
Professor Daniel Ferreira on Measuring Performance
How to detect Earnings Manipulation | Financial Statement Analysis and Equity Valuation
About LSE Executive Education
Sign up to the mailing list for more information.
" The interchange of perspectives with fellow participants, the faculty expertise and the LSE experience itself are immensely powerful in broadening your understanding.
Kumar Jegarasasingam , Credit Risk Manager, Bank for International Settlements

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/executive-education/online-learning/online-career-accelerators:
Our portfolio of Online Career Accelerators combines LSE’s world-leading teaching and research with relevant industry practice to prepare you for long-term career success.
Delivered in collaboration with our education technology partner, FourthRev, over six months, part-time and online, you’ll progress through three courses and an Employer Project, where you'll build a portfolio of evidence to showcase your new skills and competencies.
Each of our Online Career Accelerators expertly combine technical and business knowledge and skills, designed to meet workplace demands
FourthRev partners with world-class universities and global industry leaders to create online Career Accelerators—intensive programmes designed to close the skills gap between higher education and the digital economy.
By combining rigorous academic insight, industry-backed practical experience, and personalised career support, FourthRev empowers professionals to thrive in the careers of the future.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/executive-education/online-learning/online-certificate-courses:
Our Online Certificate Courses provide the expert knowledge and skills you need to enhance your career.
From leadership and management, to finance and economics, to technology, law and public policy, courses take place over 6 to 10 weeks and are taught in weekly modules, in collaboration with our education technology partner, GetSmarter, providing the ultimate flexibility for busy professionals to upskill for success.
Learn the core aspects of business management and develop the tools required to be a business leader, including strategic thinking, negotiation abilities, and people-management skills.
Develop strong data analysis skills to address changing business challenges, make decisions based on data, and use visualisations to clearly present findings and outcomes.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/executive-education/online-learning/self-paced-programmes:
LSE's Self-Paced Programmes offer flexible online learning with no fixed schedules, allowing you to access LSE's world-class teaching at your own pace.
6 weeks, part-time
This self-paced course aims to introduce basic mathematical concepts and maximize your chances of success in undergraduate-level quantitative subjects.
5 weeks, part-time
The first of two courses which help you to master mathematics fundamentals and build your quantitative skillset for progression in high-growth careers, or to use as step towards further study.
The second of two courses which help you to master mathematics fundamentals and build your quantitative skillset for progression in high-growth careers, or to use as step towards further study.
This proctored exam assesses the material in the Maths Essentials course.
First in a series of four which help you master statistics fundamentals and build your quantitative skillset to progress your career, or to use as a step towards further study at undergraduate level.
The second in a series of four courses to help you master statistics fundamentals and build your quantitative skillset for progression in high-growth careers, or use as a step towards further study.
10 weeks, part-time
Participants will delve into the intricacies of cross-cultural interactions, examining how cultural differences impact negotiation strategies, communication styles, and relationship-building.
Part 3 of 4 courses which help you to master statistics fundamentals and build your quantitative skillset for career  progression, or to use as step towards further study at undergraduate level.
The final part in a series which help you to master statistics fundamentals and build your quantitative skillset for progression in high-growth careers, or to use as step towards further study.
This exam assesses all concepts, methods and techniques introduced across the four courses within the LSE MicroBachelors program in Mathematics and Statistics Fundamentals

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/executive-education/online-learning/the-certificate-of-professional-advancement:
The Certificate of Professional Advancement will be awarded to participants who complete any three courses from our Online Certificate Course portfolio over a two-year period.
It provides you with the maximum flexibility to learn from anywhere in the world, in a way that suits your own schedule.
Go deeper with your learning and choose courses that match your professional development and career advancement needs.
You will learn from world-leading faculty and join an exclusive global network of engaged and like-minded professionals committed to lifelong learning.
The Certificate of Professional Advancement allows you to curate a learning path that best suits your career goals.
Not sure which courses to choose?
We've provided a few ideas.
Or simply choose a combination of any three courses from our OCC portfolio .
Earn The LSE Certificate of Professional Advancement (CPA)
Raj Kumar, commercial director at Hanson Wade, has completed four online certificate courses with the London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE), earning him LSE's  Certificate of Professional Advancement (CPA).
Watch as he shares his learning journey.
LSE Online
LSE Online Newsletter

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/executive-masters-degrees/about:
LSE offers a range of executive master's degrees for mid-career to senior level professionals, which cover a wide variety of subject areas and disciplines.
The programmes benefit from the School's exceptional links with the outside world, both within the academic community and with organisations and policy practitioners.
We provide experienced working professionals in any industry with a unique combination of intellectual skills, networks and practical abilities.
Degrees are available in a variety of flexible study options, allowing you to continue working whilst studying and to instantly begin applying your learning into the workplace.
If you are looking to transition to the next step in your career this is an excellent way to do it.
The learning experience on our executive master’s degrees is enriched by the variety of work experience, academic backgrounds and international perspectives our students bring to the classroom, giving you the opportunity for extensive peer learning and collaboration.
Our executive master’s are taught by a variety of world-class, full-time LSE faculty, who lead their field.
This is augmented by senior practitioners and guest speakers bringing real-world application into the classroom.
Our lecturers will engage, challenge and equip you with the latest knowledge and skills.
Each degree also has its own dedicated team of professional support staff to manage the programme.
This dedicated team will support you throughout the degree and ensure that you get the most from your LSE experience.
With LSE’s cosmopolitan campus in the heart of London as your base, you will join the School’s prestigious tradition of academic debate and our thriving student community.
There is always a huge range of activities and events to choose from while you are here, including our high profile public lecture and events series, as well as a taste of London as a global centre for culture, entertainment, history, industry and government.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/executive-masters-degrees/degrees:
LSE offers various different executive master's degrees tailored to suit working professionals who want to take their career to the next level.
Executive MSc Behavioural Science
A unique and dynamic programme that allows professionals to pursue new opportunities within behavioural science.
Executive MSc in Cities
An 18-month degree for urban professionals who want to understand and deliver change in cities.
MSc Finance (part time)
A 21-month programme for working professionals who aspire to high-powered careers in finance.
Executive MSc Health Economics, Policy and Management
Rigorous training in health economics and insights into the policy process as well as the design and analysis of health services.
Executive MSc Health Economics, Outcomes and Management in Clinical Sciences
Offered in collaboration with the European Society of Cardiology, this programme is designed for clinicians, health care professionals, managers, researchers, and management consultants.
Executive MSc Healthcare Decision-Making, in collaboration with NICE
Developed in collaboration with the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE), this programme offers skill-oriented and policy-based courses that will enable a strategic view of healthcare systems.
Executive MSc International Strategy and Diplomacy
Designed to enhance the strategic vision and negotiation skills of professionals working in an international environment.
Executive Master's in Law (LLM)
Flexible extended part-time LLM programme designed for working professionals, taught by leading law academics.
Executive Global MSc Management
Management skills that last a lifetime.
Study in London and internationally on this global management programme.
Executive MSc Social Business and Entrepreneurship
A socially-focused Masters for leaders across sectors, integrating social purpose with cutting edge business training.
The TRIUM Global Executive MBA is one of the world’s leading degree programs for global leaders jointly issued by LSE, NYU Stern School of Business, and HEC Paris School of Management.
With 6 modules across 5 global locations, TRIUM offers a transformational opportunity to develop world-class strategic business skills and maximise your impact as a future-focused and visionary leader.
Executive Master of Public Administration
For professionals seeking new skills for policy-making with study alongside your full-time job.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/executive-masters-degrees/how-to-apply:
All applications for executive master’s degrees should be made via the LSE Online Admissions System.
General information on the application process can be found on our Graduate Admissions pages, however please note some further information specific to executive degrees:
CV / Resume : Work experience plays an important role in many of our executive degrees so please ensure you include a clear, concise CV / resume as part of your application to avoid any unnecessary delays.
References : Two references are required for all executive degree applications and you will be required to provide contact information for each of your referees.
Some programmes will accept two professional references, while others may require one professional and one academic reference if you have recently been in education.
Please check your chosen degree’s requirements before making an application.
LSE will email a reference request directly to your chosen referees, so we recommend you provide an institutional email addresses where possible.
Personal Statement : We determine your suitability for the chosen degree based on past experience and career goals and the personal statement is your opportunity to demonstrate this suitability.
Collaborative and peer learning are an integral part of our executive degrees, so make sure your personal statement also includes details on what you think you will contribute to the classroom learning environment.
Proof of Previous Degree/s : Executive master’s degrees require applicants to be educated to at least undergraduate level.
To demonstrate this, you should include a certificate or transcript from your university documenting your completion of the degree and your overall attainment and marks for individual courses.
Supporting documents will be required for each of the degrees listed in your application.
GMAT / GRE : Some executive master’s degrees require Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or Graduate Management Admissions Test (GMAT) scores as part of the application.
Further information about GRE / GMAT, including a full list of degrees which require these are available on the Graduate Admissions pages.
Our executive master’s degrees have varying start dates and application deadlines.
Please check your chosen degree’s page for further information.
Once you have compiled the supporting documents required for your chosen degree, you can apply via the LSE Online Application System .
Once all compulsory sections of the form have been completed, you will be prompted to pay an application fee.
Your application will not be considered complete until the fee is paid.
LSE will email reference requests to each of your referees.
Both referees will need to respond to their reference requests in order for your application to be passed to the selectors for your chosen degree.
You can check the status of your referee requests by logging back into the LSE Online Application System .
Once your application is completed and both referees have responded to their reference request, it will take the Graduate Admissions team 5 to 10 working days to process your application.
At this point, you will receive an email from LSE prompting you to activate your LSE For You account.
You will then be able to use these details to access the Graduate Application Portal (GAP) which will show the status of your application.
The Graduate Application Portal will show you if a decision has been made on your application and will also indicate whether or not you will need to provide further information in order to allow the programme selectors to make a decision.
If you are made an offer of study for your chosen degree, the Graduate Application Portal will list any conditions or requirements you need to fulfil before commencing study.
If you have any questions about these, please contact your chosen programme’s team directly.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/executive-masters-degrees/funding:
Tuition fees and what they include vary for each executive master’s degree – please check the relevant programme pages for full up-to-date details.
You can find general information about fees at LSE on our Fees Office pages, and graduate funding and scholarship opportunities here .
Some of the information on these pages relates to non-executive degrees so below is some information specific to executive master’s degrees.
Executive master’s degrees are not eligible for LSE’s Graduate Support Scheme as they are designed for working professionals who are earning whilst they study.
Depending on your nationality, certain loans (including US Loans) or scholarship schemes may be available to you.
More information on loans can be found here , and country-based awards here.
Some executive master’s degrees may have programme level scholarships available - please contact the relevant programme team to enquire.
Many executive master’s degrees have instalment plans available for making tuition payments easier - further details are available here .
You may also consider employer sponsorship.
We encourage you to discuss this directly with your employer and make a case for their financial sponsorship if this is appropriate, as they will gain valuable return on their investment in sponsoring you.
Please see our benefits to employers page for more details.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/executive-masters-degrees/benefits-for-employers:
LSE’s portfolio of executive master's degrees is devised to offer exceptional individual professional development as well as outstanding benefits for the students’ employer.
Our executive degrees are designed to study alongside demanding full-time jobs.
This way, both the individual and the organisation benefit from the achievement and application of new cutting-edge skills without the need for potentially disruptive career breaks.
The return on investment for the employer at the end of the programme will be a fully developed employee with a unique skill set, and the talent to drive the organisation to new levels of success.
Each LSE executive degree is unique and offers skills and benefits relevant to specific industry sectors – you can learn more by looking at individual programme curricula .
In addition there are a number of common ways in which LSE executive degrees benefit employer and sponsor organisations.
A history of excellence
Founded in 1895 with the purpose of academic engagement with real world issues, LSE enjoys a reputation as one of the world’s best universities in the social sciences.
Over 120 years LSE has developed an unrivalled global network of leading minds in government, business and academia in 190 countries across the world.
Immediate impact Studying whilst working, students can immediately apply their newly gained knowledge, skills and networks in the workplace, contributing to improved effectiveness in teams and organisations.
LSE’s executive degrees offer an instant return on investment built on research informed teaching delivered by world-leading faculty in programmes that emphasise the practical application of skills.
Developing talent Sponsoring students on LSE’s executive degrees signals a strong interest in developing staff within your organisation.
Such a commitment to nurture talent will increase motivation, loyalty and in turn strengthen the leadership of your organisation.
Relevance for your company All of LSE’s executive degrees offer the opportunity to customise the experience to make it more relevant to the employer’s professional needs.
This is usually by designing assessments in a way that allows students to apply it to a challenge faced by their organisation.
Some programmes also include substantial project elements while others allow students to choose ‘option’ modules from a range of topics to complement required courses in a way that can benefit employers.
Regardless of the specific format there will be frequent opportunities for students to apply their learning to workplace challenges.
Global perspectives and networks LSE has an outstanding global reputation that is reflected in the diversity of its faculty and students.
International cohorts ensure students are exposed to a wide range of professional and regional perspectives which will enhance their employer’s global mobility and reach.
In addition, the School attracts the world’s leading thinkers on a wide range of topics to talk at public and programme specific events .
This means students on our executive degrees will be exposed to the latest thinking on important issues from around the world.
Students gain access to our global alumni network and retain this access for life, enabling their organisation to benefit from an unrivalled senior leadership network.
Sponsoring organisations are often invited to participate in events organised by LSE Careers and can benefit from access to a talented pool of LSE graduates.
Our reputation for rigorous, innovative and intellectually challenging degree programmes is the reason why professionals and senior executives from a diverse range of organisations choose LSE executive degrees.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/executive-masters-degrees/faq-and-contacts:
If you have a question and can’t find the answer below, please check the pages of your chosen degree.
Executive master’s degrees are designed for people who want to continue or resume their education while working full-time.
Unlike a traditional part-time or full-time master’s degree, most content is delivered in several intensive sessions, each usually lasting about a week at a time.
Executive students are not usually expected to be on campus outside of these intensive sessions, allowing you to undertake study without living in London.
Some executive degrees also tend to have a strong practitioner focus, with more time dedicated to practical tasks and case study learning, with the aim of allowing you to apply your new knowledge quickly in your current professional role.
For more information about the different between executive master’s and traditional master’s degrees, please check our About page .
LSE offers a number of executive master’s degrees in management, behavioural science, finance, health policy, international diplomacy, law, public policy, and cities.
Further information is available on each degree’s page .
If you prefer not to commit to a full-length master’s degree, LSE also offers a range of executive short courses.
For further information about these, please visit our Executive Education website .
In addition to executive master’s degrees, LSE also offers a range of executive short courses.
General guidance on the application process is provided on our How to Apply page .
You should also check your chosen degree’s own pages for additional guidance.
Executive master’s degrees at LSE usually require applicants to have completed an undergraduate degree and have some professional experience.
The exact entry requirements differ from degree to degree, so please check your chosen degree’s page for full details.
Yes.
Applications are welcomed from students who are educated to an undergraduate level or higher.
Specific entry requirements can be found on your chosen degree’s page .
Each executive master’s degree has its own application deadline which can be found on your chosen degree's page .
Some degrees have a rolling deadline and close applications when they reach capacity.
It is usually a good a idea to apply as early as possible to avoid disappointment.
There is an ‘application assessment fee’ which you must pay in order to submit an an application for graduate study at LSE.
Please see the Graduate Admissions Office’s Supporting Documents pages for full details.
All teaching on the degree will take place in English, and so you and your fellow students will need to meet LSE’s English language requirements .
Some degrees will expect students to meet the ‘Standard’ requirement, while others will expect the ‘Higher’ requirement.
Please check your chosen degree's page to see which level is required.
If you are required to produce evidence of your English language proficiency, you will not need to include this in your initial application.
However, if you are required to prove this, it will be made a condition of your offer of study and you will need to provide evidence before starting the degree.
Fees vary from degree to degree, so please check your chosen degree’s page for further details.
Fees can be paid by credit/debit card, wire/bank transfer, cheque or bankers draft.
Fee payments are handled by the Fees, Income and Credit Control Office and you can find further information on how to pay fees on their website .
Most executive master’s degrees also offer instalment plans to their students to help spread the cost of tuition.
As executive master’s degrees are designed to enhance professional skills, some students are funded by their employers.
If you are made an offer of a place on an LSE programme, you will be given the opportunity to provide your organisation’s details on your Financial Undertaking Form .
This will inform the School that your organisation will be acting a sponsor.
Once you have started your programme, the School will send an invoice to your organisation for the amount specified on the form.
If you believe your organisation may be interested in acting as a sponsor, please refer them to our Benefits for Employers page .
Please be aware instalment plans are not offered to sponsors.
As our executive master’s degrees are intended for working professionals, they are not eligible for the LSE’s Graduate Support Scheme.
Some programmes offer their own scholarship schemes, so please check our Fees and Funding page for more information.
Applicants who are seeking funding from non-LSE sources are advised that some funding bodies only sponsor degrees lasting under a year in duration.
Please check your chosen degree ’s mode of study and the eligibility criteria of the scheme you plan to apply for.
Please also see our Funding page for further information.
No.
Students are responsible for their accommodation costs.
However, LSE students can benefit from a corporate rate at nearby Club Quarters hotels.
If teaching falls outside of LSE term dates, you may also be able to book accommodation in some LSE Residences via the LSE Vacations service.
You may need a visa depending on your nationality and status in the UK.
More information on your options can be found on the Student Advice and Engagement Team pages.
Executive MSc International Strategy and Diplomacy Contact: Ideas.Strategy@lse.ac.uk Executive MSc Behavioural Science Contact: pbs.emsc@lse.ac.uk Executive MSc in Cities Contact: emc.lsecities@lse.ac.uk Executive MSc Finance (Part-time) Contact: finance.mfinpt@lse.ac.uk Executive Global MSc Management Contact: dom.egmim.admissions@lse.ac.uk Executive MSc Healthcare Decision-making, in collaboration with NICE Contact: healthpolicy.exec@lse.ac.uk Executive MSc Health Economics, Outcomes and Management in Clinical Sciences Contact: healthpolicy.exec@lse.ac.uk Executive MSc Health Economics, Policy and Management Contact: healthpolicy.exec@lse.ac.uk Executive Master of Laws (LLM) Contact: law.ellm@lse.ac.uk Executive Master of Public Administration (EMPA) Contact: Spp.Exec.Admissions@lse.ac.uk Executive MSc Social Business and Entrepreneurship Contact: Marshallinstitute.Emsbeenquiries@lse.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Graduate/Degree-programmes-2020/Executive-MSc-Behavioural-Science:
Designed for full-time professionals across diverse sectors, this programme enables you to gain a graduate qualification in behavioural science and pursue new opportunities within this emerging field.
Taught by world-leading behavioural science experts, the programme combines rigorous academic training with practical insights.
You’ll gain a theoretical understanding of behavioural science whilst learning how to design and test behavioural interventions and influence behaviour change in the real world.
The curriculum covers a broad range of topics, including behavioural decision science, corporate behaviour, research methods, and behavioural science in the age of AI.
The programme is arranged into three two-week intensive teaching sessions at the LSE campus in London.
Outside of these sessions you can continue to work and study flexibly around your career from anywhere in the world.
Following the end of the teaching sessions, you’ll complete a dissertation and apply your learning to your chosen area of interest.
Equipped with this qualification, you’ll have the skills to develop in your current professional role or transition to a new career.
Upper second class honours (2:1) degree or equivalent and three years’ relevant post-graduation work experience.
We do require students to be passionate about studying behavioural science and its applications.
You can tell us about this passion in your statement of academic purpose.
Although we don't require students to have a quantitative background, research methods is a core component of the programme.
This is essential in order for you to be able to conduct rigorous and credible research in behavioural Science.
The training will start at a level that enables all students to participate.
However, if you don't have previous exposure to quantitative methods you may find that you need to invest additional time developing you skills in this area throughout the programme.
Please select your country from the dropdown list below to find out the entry requirements that apply to you.
English language requirements
The English language requirement for this programme is Higher .
Read more about our English language requirements .
Competition for places at LSE is strong.
So, even if you meet the minimum entry requirements, this does not guarantee you an offer of a place.
However, please don’t feel deterred from applying – we want to hear from all suitably qualified students.
Think carefully about how you can put together the strongest possible application to help you stand out.
This 16-month programme normally starts in September and is divided into six half-unit taught courses for the first eight months, followed by a dissertation unit for the remaining eight months.
Teaching sessions usually take place in September, January and April.
Following the taught courses, you'll pursue an independent piece of research within the field of behavioural science.
The dissertation can consist of an empirical analysis of existing data, a collection and analysis of new data, a randomised controlled experiment (lab, field or online) or a systematic review of the literature.
You'll be supervised by a member of academic staff.
Learn more about previous dissertation topics
Teaching dates
For reference, the teaching dates for the 2025/26 academic year are as follows:
For the latest list of courses, please go to the relevant School Calendar page .
A few important points you’ll need to know:
We may need to change, suspend or withdraw a course or programme of study, or change the fees due to unforeseen circumstances.
We’ll always notify you as early as possible and recommend alternatives where we can.
The School is not liable for changes to published information or for changing, suspending or withdrawing a course or programme of study due to events outside our control (including a lack of demand, industrial action, fire, flooding or other damage to premises).
Places are limited on some courses and/or subject to specific entry requirements so we cannot therefore guarantee you a place.
Changes to programmes and courses may be made after you’ve accepted your offer of a place – normally due to global developments in the discipline or student feedback.
We may also make changes to course content, teaching formats or assessment methods but these are always made to improve the learning experience.
For
full details about the availability or content of courses and programmes,
please take a look at the School’s Calendar , or contact
the relevant academic department.
Some
major changes to programmes/courses are posted on our updated graduate course and programme information page .
Discover more about our department and what our graduates have to say about the programme .
The Department of Psychological and Behavioural Science is a growing community of researchers, academics and students who explore the human mind and behaviour in a societal context.
From our early beginnings as a group of researchers studying psychology and society 50 years ago, the department is now home to an interdisciplinary faculty team conducting wide-ranging research.
Today, our research spans:
Our research is connected with what is happening in the world today.
The outputs impact policy, business and society at large.
This focus on real-world issues sets our department, and LSE, apart from other institutions and our students inform and inspire the direction of our work.
We offer various taught programmes and research opportunities, ranging from our BSc in Psychological and Behavioural Science to doctoral training – all with an emphasis on practical, policy-related issues.
By maintaining this focus on real-world issues and societal impact, our department leads the way with innovative research in the field, the lab and everywhere in between.
So, whether you want to study, research or teach, you’ll find a supportive and inspirational community where you can contribute to global debates and change.
Learn more about our programmes and research .
We welcome applications from all suitably qualified prospective students.
At LSE, we want to recruit students with the best academic merit, potential and motivation, irrespective of background.
We carefully consider each application and take into account all the information included on your application form, such as your:
See further information on supporting documents
See our English language requirements
FAQs
Find the answers to some frequently asked questions
Information sessions
Curious about the Executive MSc Behavioural Science?
Join our next information session to learn more about the programme and meet the team.
Registration is essential, please book your place via the link below.
If you have any queries or would like to find out more about the programme, please email us at pbs.emsc@lse.ac.uk .
About our students
Our students come from a wide range of academic and professional backgrounds from all over the world, but one thing binds them together: a passion for behavioural science and a desire to better understand how principles from behavioural science can be applied in their professional (and personal) lives.
The diversity of the class means that students are exposed to a wide range of perspectives, and that they leave LSE with a strong network of of peers from across the globe.
Learn more about our alumni.
Applications for this programme are considered on a rolling basis, meaning the programme will close once it becomes full.
There is no fixed deadline by which you need to apply, but we advise applying early in the admissions cycle in order to increase your chance of being successful.
The table of fees shows the latest tuition fees for all programmes.
You're charged a fee for your programme.
Your tuition fee covers registration and examination fees payable to the School, lectures, classes and individual supervision, lectures given at other colleges under intercollegiate arrangements and, under current arrangements, membership of the Students' Union.
It doesn't cover fieldwork, travel or living costs in London.
Home student fee
The fee above is for 2025/26.
Overseas student fee
For this programme, all students pay the same tuition fees, regardless of their fee status.
Fee reduction
Students who completed undergraduate study at LSE and are beginning Executive MSc study at the School are eligible for a fee reduction of around 10 per cent of the fee.
Scholarships and other funding
This programme is not eligible for LSE financial support.
Government tuition fee loans and external funding
The UK Government offers a postgraduate loan for eligible students studying for a first master’s programme.
This is designed to help with fees and living costs.
Some other governments and organisations also offer tuition fee loan schemes.
Find out more about tuition fee loans .
Learn more
about fees and funding opportunities .
This programme is taught in modular blocks, and you'll come to the LSE campus for three two-week teaching sessions.
Each of the six taught courses consist of a minimum of 22 hours of interactive lectures and seminars.
Teaching takes place Monday to Friday during the teaching weeks.
Your programme directors and teaching staff will be available to provide you with advice and guidance throughout the programme.
Other academic support:at LSE, we offer lots of opportunities to extend your learning outside the classroom.
LSE LIFE is a great place to get advice and practise the skills you’ll need during your studies and beyond.
Through LSE LIFE, you can:
Disability and Mental Health Service: we want all LSE students to achieve their full potential.
Students can access free, confidential advice through our Disability and Mental Health Service .
This is the first point of contact for students.
Between sessions you will complete various assessments, such as essays and take-home exams.
Students should expect to dedicate at least 10-15 hours per week on average on self-study when away from campus.
After the final teaching session, you'll work on your dissertation with support from your supervisor.
The dissertation is an original piece of research that develops ideas and tools learned in the courses.
It's on a topic you select, and falls within your professional or personal research interests.
You'll have clear guidelines shared with other students, and are supervised by a faculty member.
If you wish to pursue a PhD the dissertation may form the basis for your eventual doctoral thesis.
This EMSc will prepare you to seek and/or advance your career in behavioural science in multiple sectors, including international organisations, the private and public sectors, non-governmental organisations, and academia.
Learn more about our alumni and their careers
Further information on graduate destinations for this programme
From CV workshops through to careers fairs, LSE offers lots of information and support to help you make that all-important step from education into work.
Many of the UK’s top employers give careers presentations at the School during the year and there are numerous workshops covering topics such as job hunting, managing interviews, writing a cover letter and using LinkedIn.
See LSE Careers for further details.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/Cities/education/emc:
An 18-month programme for urban professionals in the public, private and third sectors who want to understand and deliver change in cities
Attend an online info session about the programme
Speak to a member of the Academic Team
Learn more about the Programme Faculty
Programme structure, courses, and key themes
+ 44 (0)20 7955 6429
emc.lsecities@lse.ac.uk
LSE Cities, 8th Floor, Fawcett House, Clement's Inn, London, WC2A 2AE, United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Graduate/Degree-programmes-2020/MSc-Finance-part-time:
The MSc Finance (part-time) programme provides a unique opportunity to pursue a graduate degree at a world-leading institution alongside a full-time career.
The programme attracts working professionals who either already hold, or aspire to hold, high-powered careers in finance and wish to acquire a more in-depth and academically rigorous knowledge of the subject.
As the LSE's longest running Executive Master's degree, the programme is specifically tailored to meet the requirements of part-time students in employment with regard to: academic content, structure and timing of teaching, and the academic, pastoral and careers support provided for students throughout the programme.
The academic structure and content in this programme is almost identical to the full-time MSc Finance programme, the primary difference being that teaching is delivered during evening sessions.
Being only a short journey from the City and Canary Wharf, LSE is ideally located for professionals to commute to and from the office for lectures, to study with their classmates or attend events and public lectures.
Have questions about this programme?
Upper second class honours (2:1) degree or equivalent in any discipline and good quantitative skills.
Competition for places at the School is high.
This means that even if you meet the minimum entry requirement, this does not guarantee you an offer of admission.
The mathematics used in the programme includes basic calculus and statistics, so applicants are also required to have studied a minimum of A level Mathematics (or its equivalent).
See information below under "Additional tests".
Two to five years of relevant work experience will be considered a strong advantage.
You may also have to provide evidence of your English proficiency, although you don't need to provide this at the time of your application to LSE.
GRE or GMAT isn't required, but is recommended for applicants whose 
quantitative skills aren't demonstrated by their undergraduate studies 
or work experience, or who don't have the equivalent of a UK first 
class degree (see GRE and GMAT for further information and exceptions)
Find out more about GRE/GMAT
The English language requirement for this programme is Standard .
The MSc Finance (part-time) is a 21-month programme taught over two years.
All teaching takes place on the central LSE campus in Holborn from 6.30pm to 10pm.
In the first year, classes are on Tuesdays and Thursdays.
In the second year, classes are taught Monday-Thursday.
Exact days will vary according to optional course choices.
There is a short break part way through each class where catering is provided in the form of sandwiches, salads, snacks, drinks, tea and coffee.
Teaching will be delivered in Autumn and Winter Terms.
Some optional 
revision sessions will take place in the Spring Term to help prepare 
students for exams.
Optional online Saturday sessions run throughout the
 first year to assist students who wish to revise or catch up on study.
In the first year, students will have two mid-term assessments (30%) at 
the end of Autumn Term and two final assessments (60%) in the Spring 
Term.
In the second year, the assessment structure varies depending on 
the electives chosen.
You can find out more about upcoming term dates on
 the LSE term dates page.
Students complete courses amounting to the total value of four units, with two full-unit compulsory courses in the first year, and then four half-unit optional courses in the second year.
MSc comparison: an overview of all the master’s programmes
Before the course teaching begins, students will attend a series of five pre-sessional classes in September.
These classes cover the revision of and introduction to core quantitative mathematics, statistics and accounting, ensuring all students are able to tackle the material in the first term’s core courses.
The foundation of the programme is built in the first year when you'll study two full-unit compulsory courses.
These courses must be passed in order to progress to the second year.
In the second year, students deepen their knowledge by taking four optional half-unit courses.
Elective topics include financial systems, risk management, portfolio management methods, advanced derivatives and structured financial products, fixed income, advanced corporate finance, and applied financial valuation.
You can choose from a range of evening courses and a limited number of daytime courses.
You're strongly encouraged to choose from the dedicated evening courses as these have been especially designed to cater to the needs of working students.
You may have coursework assignments or presentations, either individual or group work.
This varies between courses.
You'll also be required to submit a 6,000 word structured project for at least one of your courses.
Final exam style assessments take place in the summer.
Revision sessions take place in the Spring Term to help prepare students for exams.
Some courses will have optional Saturday sessions.
You're expected to attend five pre-sessional classes in September before class teaching resumes.
You choose optional courses to the value of two units from the lists below.
Please note that the nine-month and ten-month full time master's programmes are not compliant with the Bologna process, which may affect the extent to which they're recognised.
For more information, see Bologna process .
Discover more about our department below and learn what it's really like to balance full time work with the MSc in our student blog .
Read interviews with graduates of the MSc Finance (part-time) on our alumni profile page .
The Department of Finance is one of the largest and most highly respected finance groups in the UK and Europe.
With a longstanding reputation for excellence in both teaching and research, we offer various undergraduate, postgraduate and executive programmes.
Our research and teaching span the full range of financial sub-fields, including:
We're also closely associated with two leading research groups at LSE – the Financial Markets Group and Systemic Risk Centre , which host seminars, conferences and public lectures by renowned academics and practitioners.
Our research is regularly published in leading academic journals globally.
Faculty members work closely with national and international institutions, such as the Bank of England and the World Bank, informing policy at the highest levels.
The department was ranked the top place to study finance in the Good University Guide 2025 .
We welcome applications from all suitably qualified prospective students and want to recruit students with the very best academic merit, potential and motivation, irrespective of their background.
We carefully consider each application on an individual basis, taking into account all the information presented on your application form, including your:
If you have any questions about the academic programme or admissions process, please contact the Department of Finance Admissions team at finance.admissionsenquiries@lse.ac.uk .
Application Deadlines:
Round 1: 06/02/2025 Round 2: 17/04/2025 Round 3: 19/06/2025 Round 4: 07/08/2025
Applications for this programme are considered on a rolling basis, 
meaning the programme will close once it becomes full.
We encourage you 
to apply early to avoid disappointment.
Details on how to apply .
Year 1 (2025/26):
Home students: £24,250
Year 2 (2026/27):
Overseas students: £24,250
The department will be awarding three scholarships to students starting the programme in the 2025/26 academic year.
Each scholarship equates to 25% of the total tuition fees for the programme.
They may be awarded on either merit or diversity.
All offer holders who submit their applications in the first, second or third admissions rounds will be considered for a merit scholarship.
To be considered for this scholarship, you must submit your application by midnight on Thursday 19 June 2025.
Both academic and professional merit may be considered.
The department recognises the value of having a diverse student cohort, including those from a range of backgrounds, ethnicities, religions, sexualities and gender identities.
In light of this, offer holders with an excellent academic and/or professional background who will enhance the diversity of perspectives on the programme may benefit from a diversity scholarship.
To be considered for a diversity scholarship, you must have submitted your application to study on the programme and have received a formal offer.
The department is unable to consider applications submitted after this date.
If you meet the above criteria, please submit a written response to the following question (max.
500 words):
Why is encouraging diversity and/or contributing to equality so important in the financial services sector?
Please email your Diversity Scholarship application to finance.mfinpt@lse.ac.uk by midnight on Thursday 19 June 2025 .
Your application email should include your LSE Applicant ID number.
Other LSE Funding
This programme is not eligible for any other LSE financial support.
Our philosophy of finance education is based on the belief that a sound basis in academic theory is crucial for long-term success.
Our faculty are leaders in their field, regularly publishing new and innovative research which ensures that our teaching is always at the cutting edge of finance theory.
However, theory is symbiotic with application.
The MSc Finance (part-time) programme contains a number of bespoke applied courses which are taught using case studies, interactive discussions and visiting expert speakers.
These courses are specifically designed to enable students to gain deeper practical insights and links to the City.
Dedicated MSc Finance courses are taught during a weekly three-hour seminar in the evening with a dinner break in between.
Usually, each course has 10 lectures in one term.
The teaching allows the study of core theoretical concepts, whilst also allowing students to gain a practical understanding of the application of these concepts.
The majority of courses use case studies and practical homework problems to underpin the theory studied.
Classroom discussions are a key part of the learning.
Some optional courses require working in a group.
Some non-dedicated courses are taught in a two-hour lecture, one-hour class format.
For dedicated evening courses, two office hours are held by Course Support Managers (the dedicated tutor for a course) each week.
One office hour runs before the evening seminar, and the other online over the lunch period.
For certain courses, Course Support Managers also offer optional online Saturday review sessions.
You can view indicative details of the teachers responsible for each course in the relevant course guide .
All academic faculty schedule weekly office hours during term time, during which any student may visit them to discuss academic issues.
In some cases, students may be able to arrange a time to meet with a member of faculty outside of their office hours.
The MSc Finance (part-time) Associate Programme Director acts as the main academic and pastoral supervisor for all students on the programme.
The Associate Programme Director works closely with the Programme Director and the Programme Manager, and is able to advise students on general issues regarding the programme.
In addition, she has extensive experience of the financial services sector, enabling her to provide a high level of careers support.
Formative work
This is coursework that does not count directly towards your final grade.
For the majority of courses, you'll be set weekly problem sets which you should complete before the following week’s class, where the teacher will work through solutions and answer questions.
This provides you with an idea of how well you understand the material throughout the year.
An indication of the formative coursework and summative assessment for each course can be found in the relevant course guide .
Summative work
This is coursework that counts directly towards your final grade.
All of the dedicated courses on the MSc Finance programme contain a summative coursework element.
Different courses set different types of summative work.
However, students should expect two or more pieces of work to be submitted over an eleven week term.
Some courses require weekly submission of problem sets which all make up a small percentage of the final grade.
The vast majority of MSc Finance (part-time) students are already working in finance related roles at the time of joining the programme.
As such, each individual’s future direction upon graduation depends on their own aspirations and career experience.
Previous graduates of the programme have gone on to take on new roles within the sector or change their trajectory entirely from a non-finance related role.
Whatever your reason for pursuing the programme, whether to help fast-track your professional development, change trajectory, or simply gain more knowledge in relation to your current role, the programme aims to equip you with the knowledge and skills to succeed in, and enhance, your career.
Please note: this programme is not intended as 
suitable preparation for the PhD Finance at LSE (if you're interested 
in PhD study, please see MSc Finance and Economics ).
The Department of Finance runs an extensive Professional Development Programme for MSc Finance (part-time) students alongside the academic programme in order to support students in the job market.
Students are given a wide range of careers support, from application advice to opportunities to meet and network with recent alumni who are working in London.
We run a number of events and optional courses to prepare students for the competitive financial services sector job market:
*Students can attend the City Speaker Series where this doesn't clash with their pre-sessional classes.
Throughout the year, in addition to the great service offered by LSE Careers , the Department of Finance provides tailored, individual careers support to its students via a number of highly experienced sector consultants and Associate Programme Directors, each with significant experience of working in financial services.
The department’s multiple well-established Master’s programmes mean we have a large and wide-ranging alumni network.
Students get direct access to this through the alumni networking events that take place during the pre-sessional, Autumn Term and Winter Term.
With alumni in top jobs and senior positions in London and overseas, this great international network has brought employment opportunities directly to our current students as former graduates and their employers look to hire the very best.
The department has a strong presence on LinkedIn and encourages all alums to connect with us and to keep us updated as their careers progress.
The department and LSE alumni LinkedIn pages facilitate online engagement between alums and contain details of news and events as well as programme specific groups.
In the past, we've had great success linking students with alumni, and alumni from different classes with each other, facilitating the formation of both professional and personal bonds.
LSE Careers is a far-reaching resource available to LSE students and alumni, and is one of the best in the UK.
Once registered at LSE you'll be able to access the variety of resources and services it provides.
These include:

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/health-policy/study/EMSC/executive-msc-programmes:
Our Executive MSc elevate your career with health policy expertise.
All our Executive programmes allow studying alongside full-time work with minimum disruption to your career.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/ideas/exec:
A one-year degree designed to enhance the strategic vision and negotiation skills of professionals working in an international environment.
Learn more about the one-year executive MSc degree.
Programme structure including policy weekends and evening seminars.
Details on applications
Receive periodic updates on admissions, deadlines and upcoming events
MSc International Strategy and Diplomacy enquiries (+44) 020 7955 6526
MSc International Strategy and Diplomacy enquiries ideas.strategy@lse.ac.uk
LSE IDEAS, Floor 9, Pankhurst House, 1 Clement's Inn, London, WC2A 2AZ

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/law/study/ellm:
The Executive LLM provides a unique way of studying for a masters in law.
Designed specifically for working lawyers and taught by world-leading academics, the Executive LLM is a flexible, part-time programme which enables students to obtain an LLM without having to take an extended break from work.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/management/study/executive:
Executive Global Master's in Management
Work experience requirement: 5 years or more
An intelligent alternative to an MBA, offering an outstanding training in management and leadership for experienced professionals in any industry.
Delivered in a flexible global format with modules in London and overseas locations.
Previous overseas locations have included Bangalore (India), Beijing (China), Istanbul (Turkey), Singapore and Cape Town (South Africa).
Work experience requirement: 3 years or more
A socially-focused programme for business leaders across the private and non-profit sectors, integrating social purpose and social impact with the highest level of business and management training.
Work experience requirement: 10 years or more
A world-leading Executive MBA for working professionals with a minimum of 10 years' experience, partnered with New York University Stern School of Business and HEC Paris Business School.
Offering a flexible modular format, with classroom teaching across the globe in London, New York, Paris, Shanghai and California.
Executive Education Courses
Five-day intensive short courses for executives taught in the heart of London.
Courses cover executive-level training by our leading faculty in Business, Marketing, Strategy, Negotiation and Decision Making, Leadership, Innovation and Entrepreneurship.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/school-of-public-policy/empa:
The Executive MPA has been developed specifically for professionals in government departments, public agencies and the private sector who are seeking a formal graduate qualification in public administration and policy-making.
Connect and stay up to date with our global community
Read the latest news from the School of Public Policy
Stay up to date with our latest activities and events
Our academics and staff members
Sign up for the latest SPP news and events
Find out how to get involved
N/A - Please contact us via email
EMPA enquiries: Spp.Exec.Admissions@lse.ac.uk
EMPP enquiries: Spp.Exec.Admissions@lse.ac.uk
School of Public Policy, London School of Economics and Political Science, Houghton Street, London, WC2A 2AE

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/summer-schools/summer-school/about-summer-school:
Spend your summer at a world-class institution
Established in 1989, LSE Summer School is now the largest of its kind in the world.
The programme offers courses from a diverse range of disciplines including business and management, accounting, finance, law, economics, international relations, and more.
From Economic Policy to AI for Business, the courses are wide-ranging and aim to suit all interests.
Created by LSE faculty and taught to a degree standard by LSE lecturers, the programmes are designed to give you the same learning experience as full-time students.
You can study for three, six or nine weeks, in one of the most well-renowned institutions in the world, in one of the greatest cities in the world.
Courses taught during the Summer School are based on regular LSE undergraduate courses, and taught to the same standards by leading LSE faculty.
Lecturers are experts in their chosen fields and committed to teaching with academic rigour and contemporary relevance .
Our faculty are actively involved in academic research and many act as advisers and consultants to companies and Government bodies.
London is one of the most exciting and culturally-diverse cities in the world.
Being a part of LSE Summer School will give you the opportunity to study and live centrally in one of the leading global cities in the world .
Alongside your studies, you will also have the chance to relax with your fellow students outside of class.
An organised social programme will give you a chance to see some of the amazing sights of London and beyond.
Past events have included trips to the theatre, sunset cruise on the Thames, walking tours all around London, plus day-trips to historic cities Cambridge and Oxford.
In addition to our social programme, Summer School offers the Spark: Professional Skills programme.
This programme includes exciting events, bootcamps, panels, pitches and workshops that help students enhance their professional skills for today’s rapidly developing workplace.
Attendance of these optional events can also lead to a micro-accreditation (or "Spark badge") in professional skills.
The Spark programme runs in conjunction with academic courses and the social programme, so that you can focus on each area of development equally.
At LSE you will be given the chance to interact with students from a diverse range of backgrounds and cultures, both in and out of class.
You will benefit from a variety of insights and opinions, and form friendships and networks that span the globe.
In the past we’ve welcomed students from the top universities around the world, including Harvard, Yale, Bocconi, Copenhagen Business School, the National University of Singapore, HKU and many more.
While the majority of our students are undergraduate students, we also welcome a large number of postgraduate students and professionals each year.
Previously, we've welcomed groups from organisations such as the Bank of England, the European Commission, Dutch Ministry of Finance, Bank of Italy and the United Nations.
Institutions all over the world grant credit for Summer School courses .
Our courses are usually awarded 3-4 credits in the US system and 7.5 ECTS in the European system.
For details, speak to your Study Abroad advisor at your home institution, as they will decide if credit is awarded, and how much.
In addition, University of London EMFSS students who take two Summer School courses at the LSE can now transfer credit to their EMFSS Degree.
Read our guidance for EMFSS Students on selecting courses .
Find out more about how and what you’ll learn at Summer School

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/summer-schools/summer-school/courses:
LSE Summer School offers a broad set of courses across a variety of different disciplines, taught by leading scholars in their fields.
Subject Area: Accounting
Subject Area: Economics

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/summer-schools/summer-school/the-learning-experience:
You will study under lecturers who are actively involved in research, with many having connections that go beyond the university, influencing government policy and the strategies of the world’s top companies.
At LSE you will be given the chance to study alongside students from a range of backgrounds and cultures.
You will gain a variety of insights and opinions, and have the opportunity to form friendships and networks that span the globe.
Each course is carefully designed by faculty members to provide you with an authentic experience of LSE teaching, with comprehensive study materials and an intensive curriculum.
Summer School encourages you to take what you learn from lectures and seminars to inform debate and expand your understanding outside class and with your peers.
The young people who come from all around the world to take my course tell me that they feel personally changed.
Their development has been accelerated and perhaps most of all, they've met other people.
They've interacted with other people who are similarly ambitious and bring together an incredible variety of perspectives from all around the world.
Professor Charlie Beckett, LSE Department of Media and Communications
Each Summer School course is equivalent to one course from an undergraduate degree.
Generally, our courses would receive 3-4 credits in the US and Chinese systems and 7.5 ECTS in the European system.
If you wish to receive credit for Summer School courses , you will need to contact either your Study Abroad Office or the office in your university that deals with external credit.
We strongly advise you to do this before you apply, as your home institution will decide how much credit is awarded for your participation.
The Summer School office will be happy to provide any necessary information to your Study Abroad Office or academic advisors.
Assessment is not a compulsory part of your time at the LSE Summer School.
However, if you wish to gain credit, you will be assessed and receive a grade ranging from A+ to F, based on the results of either two formal examinations or a combination of formal examination and assessed work.
Examinations are two hours in length and are conducted under standardised LSE examination regulations.
Should you choose to be assessed, you will be able to request a certificate that will include your name, course(s) and grade(s).
If you choose not to be assessed, there is the option of an Attendance Certificate, which requires that you attend at least 75% of your seminar classes.
The Attendance Certificate will state your name and your courses, and confirm your attendance without stating a grade.
If you fail to attend 75% of your classes, you will be able to request a certificate that details your registration for the course but does not award you for your attendance or participation in exams.
If you have sat the final examination, you will receive a graded certificate and will not be able to request an attendance certificate.
After your time at the LSE Summer School has come to an end, you will automatically receive an electronic transcript.
Please note that credits are not printed on this document.
Students can request to receive a certificate stipulating their attendance or their attained grade.
Learn more about teaching and assessment at Summer School.
Read our Exam regulations document (PDF)
We have a range of facilities that will be available for you to use to make the most of your study time, including:
There was so much happening on campus, and we happened upon so many exciting opportunities.
I even met a head of state for Brazil and I was able to speak with him and exercise my working economic knowledge before going to see one of his fully booked lectures at LSE.
There was always the chance for conversation to blossom.
Irakli Menabde, IR209: International Political Economy
Stay up-to-date with the latest information from LSE Summer School

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/summer-schools/summer-school/professional-skills:
Spark is Summer School's professional skills programme that offers you world-class extracurricular activities to enhance your professional development as well as your academic growth
Introducing Spark - Summer School's own professional skills programme
Learn more about our events aimed at boosting your career prospects
A blog article from Summer School student José Luis Nadal.
A blog article from Summer School student Dario Sanchez Rivetti.
We caught up with Lizzie Darlington, Director of LSE Careers.
"In a rapidly changing working environment teams must quickly adapt.
Employers are looking for graduates who can show resilience, flexibility, communication skills and teamwork." 
- Lizzie Darlington, Director of LSE Careers

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/summer-schools/summer-school/social-programme:
Discover London and beyond and make life-long friends
Make the most of our free and ticketed events and our recommendations of things to do, from sampling the thriving food scene to discovering the city’s hidden gems!
Below are some examples of the types of events we'll be running this year.
The final schedule of social events will be sent to offer holders two weeks before their session starts.
Two incredible events to forge friendships with your classmates and meet LSE academics
Our sunset cruise down the River Thames is a firm favourite amongst Summer School students
We offer our students a range of opportunities to explore historic sites in the UK
Enjoy highly acclaimed world-class musicals
Exercise your body and mind while studying at LSE
We give you plenty of options to make connections with fellow students while you’re away from home
I met so many people from around the world at the social events, which was really cool.
Joey Lim, Australia University of Queensland
Our professional skills programme offering you activities to enhance your professional development and academic growth

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/summer-schools/summer-school/how-to-apply:
Everything you need to know about applying for Summer School
Summer School courses are taught to the LSE's high standard and are therefore academically rigorous.
Before starting your application, please ensure that you meet the entry requirements specific to your chosen course(s).
Great application process!
Everything happened in a timely manner and my inquiries were met with fast responses.
Emily Weis, Northeastern University, USA

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/summer-schools/summer-school/faqs:
These pages answer any questions you may have regarding the LSE Summer School

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/summer-schools/summer-school/accommodation:
Get key details about staying in LSE halls, including room availability, pricing, and what to expect during your Summer School experience
Find quick answers to everything from booking and facilities to living arrangements in LSE accommodation
Compare our residences and find the perfect fit for your stay in London
A blog article from Summer School student Elizabeth Roosevelt.
A blog article from Summer School student Brian Chen.
A great place to stay while you study, explore and enjoy London - find out why staying in LSE halls during Summer School is a great option.
Alumni of the LSE Summer School programme speak about their experience of living in LSE’s halls of residence located right in the heart of London.
Find out how you can spend your next summer in one of the world’s greatest cities.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/summer-schools/summer-school/events:
No results found

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/summer-schools/summer-school/academic-directors-scholarships:
LSE Summer School Academic Director's Scholarship Video
LSE is delighted to offer up to 10 Academic Director’s Scholarships for Summer School 2025 to exceptional applicants.
Our scholarships are geared towards those who have a passion for, or show extraordinary promise in the areas of:
These scholarships are merit-based, and designed to help students wishing to broaden and enrich their university career with participation in the LSE Summer School.
The scholarships aim to help recipients gain a global perspective, achieve academic excellence and develop civic leadership skills.
Through the Academic Director's Scholarship, I have gained a valuable opportunity to study in an environment with students from different academic backgrounds.
I have acquired so much knowledge and confidence through Summer School.
Minji Kang, South Korea Awarded an Academic Director's Scholarship in Sustainability and Development
The scholarships aim to equip students with the skills to engage with some of the critical challenges facing our world today.
The Academic Director’s Scholarships support LSE’s 2030 Vision and will be informed by the 2030 guiding principles, namely to:
As a Scholar, you will also be expected to act as a Student Ambassador for LSE Summer School.
As an ambassador, you will participate in activities to represent the Summer School to future students, and will have the opportunity to enhance your communication, networking and presentation skills.
We ask that you complete three activities over the course of a year - this can be either during your time at LSE over the summer, or once you have returned to your home institution.
These activities may include written/video testimonials, creating content for social media, participation in webinars as well as being a representative on the Unibuddy Community platform.
You will also be asked to attend one or two events with your fellow ambassadors during your time at Summer School.
More information about the Ambassador programme is available within the ADS application form.
In reviewing applications, we consider many things, ranging from demonstrated commitment to academic performance to exceptional promise in the applicant’s relevant scholarship field.
The application essay offers an opportunity for applicants to develop a compelling narrative about their background and experience, their dedication and accomplishments, and to explain how the LSE Summer School experience, inside and outside the classroom, can help them achieve their longer-term aspirations.
Professor Peter Trubowitz Academic Director of Summer School
The LSE Summer School was a once in a lifetime experience to learn from world-class academics, whilst experiencing the best of London with people you’ll call friends for life!
At LSE, I realised how much potential I had to change the world.
Lucas Ma, Australia Awarded an Academic Director's Scholarship in Responsible Leadership
A blog article from Summer School student Bushra Shakil.
A blog article from Summer School student Vladyslav Dobrokhlib.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/summer-schools/summer-school/fees-and-payment:
Course fees for Summer School 2025 are listed in the table below.
Students taking more than one course will be eligible for discounted rates as indicated:
(*Student rate applies to all full-time students who are currently enrolled at a University or College anywhere in the world.)
In addition, a non-refundable £50 application fee must be paid when submitting your application.
View our terms and conditions
Stop: Take a moment to stop and think before parting with money or sharing information will help keep you safe.
Challenge: Could it be fake?
It is ok to reject, refuse or question authenticity.
Protect: Access our webpage for further helpful hints on how to prevent and report fraud.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/summer-schools/summer-school/credit-and-certification:
There are plenty of good reasons to enrol in a summer school – you get to meet new people, see a different part of the world, and expand your academic horizons all whilst making the most of your summer break.
As well as these benefits, you also have the chance to earn credit towards your degree.
Allowing students to gain credit during the summer holidays was one of the principle motivations for establishing the summer school at the LSE.
It is not just the chance to make some headway on their degrees, however, that inspires students to spend their summers studying on intensive academic programs.
It’s a desire to learn more around a topic about which they are passionate about, from top academics.
Often it is a chance to study courses that are not available in their home institutions.
A summer school programme, therefore, can allow you to shape your own learning according to your interests.
If you can earn credit doing it – so much the better!
This was the case for Vruti Desai, who studied Management and Economics of Digital Innovation and Strategic Management : “I chose the 'Management and Economics of Digital Innovation' course as it seemed really interesting.
Being from the Silicon Valley I am particularly interested in startups.
These days, most startups are online and e-businesses.
So, I wanted to learn more about how that works.
My school, Berkeley does not offer courses like this.”
For Faith Jackman, who studied the Economics of European Integration, it was getting a unique LSE perspective.
“It was great learning about European economics and the leading school of economics in Europe.
It has impacted what I think I am going to spend a year writing a thesis on at Harvard.”
In order to be worth college credit, the course has to be of a certain standard.
This is why reputable summer school programmes such as those offered at LSE are taught by the same professors who teach full-time degrees at the university, covering the same academic content.
In order for your course to be recognised by your parent institution – and be sure to check that they do indeed award credit for summer school programmes if this is why you’re enrolling – you also have to complete a final exam at the end of each three-week programme.
LSE faculty facts:
Accordingly, the level of commitment required from participating students is high – summer school is not an option if you’re looking for an easy ride!
If you’re looking to genuinely strengthen your knowledge around a topic about which you’re passionate on the other hand, and return to your parent institution with an extra edge, then it may be worth some investigation.
“The level of study is much more intensive than other courses that I have studied in,” says Lucy Mahaffey, who completed the Political Theory and International Politics programme, “But you can’t not enjoy yourself with all of the knowledge that is being thrown at you, and also the new people that you are meeting; including your professors.”
Indeed, while the courses may be intense, the flipside is you will be enjoying the same level of attention from leading faculty as you would if you were enrolled in a full-time programme.
“I really love the faculty,” Mahaffey – whose parent institution is the University of Oklahoma – continues.
“I’ve asked lots of questions, the insight and the depth to every single answer that they give me was amazing.
They give me the context and how it ties into the history and how it can be applied in the future.”
Again, you must check with the international office of your institution if you will be awarded credit, but many institutions will allow this.
In general, you’ll earn 3-4 credits in the US system, and 7.5 ECTS in the European system.
The LSE will provide any necessary supporting evidence to help evaluate the worth of the course.
North America
Europe
Asia/Australia
Find out how how to access your transcripts

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/summer-schools/summer-school/teaching-and-assessment:
Discover how course structure, exams and credits work at Summer School
Due to the intensive nature of the programme, students are expected to spend a full day on campus.
Lectures are attended by all students on the course, and take place either in the morning (10am - 1pm) or afternoon (2pm - 5pm), at the same time each day.
They are supplemented by small 1.5 hour classes, during the following afternoon or morning.
These are an opportunity to work through problem sets or case studies, or present and discuss seminar papers.
In addition, students are recommended to spend 2-3 hours per day in self-guided study.
Timetables are issued at the beginning of the programme.
It is not possible to know the expected hours of a particular course before the programme starts.
It is not possible to change either the lecture time or the allocated class time, however, course changes are permitted within the first two days of the session.
Assessment for Summer School courses is based upon the results of either two formal examinations or a combination of formal examination and assessed work.
Exams are not compulsory.
Students who attend at least 75% of classes (9 out of 12 classes) and do not sit the final exam will receive an Attendance Certificate.
Students must note that an Attendance Certificate is not the same as a Pass/Fail grade and is unlikely to be able to be used for credit
If you wish to receive credit for your Summer School course/courses you will need to contact either your Study Abroad Office or the office in your university that deals with external credit.
We strongly advise you to do this before you apply.
It is up to your home institution to decide how much credit is awarded as credits are not printed on LSE Summer School transcripts.
The Summer School Office is however happy to provide any necessary information to your registry or academic advisor, to help them evaluate the courses.
Summer School contact hours can be found under the tab ‘Structure’.
Generally, our courses receive 3-4 credits in the US system and 7.5 ECTS in the European system.
University of London EMFSS students who take two Summer School courses at LSE can now transfer credit to their EMFSS Degree.
All students will receive a digital copy of their transcript that will include their name, course(s) and grade(s), after the programme has finished.
Students will also be given the opportunity to request a physical copy of their Summer School transcript and/or certificate which will be posted to their chosen address.
For students who choose not to be assessed in the final exam there is an option of an Attendance Certificate (providing that you have attended at least 75% of classes).
The Attendance Certificate will state your name and your course, but will say ‘Attended’ rather than give a grade.
Find out more in our FAQs.
Digital transcripts will be made available shortly after the programme has ended.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/study-abroad/go-lse:
GO LSE exchanges are organised in coordination with our partner institutions around the world and allow students to study abroad as part of their undergraduate degree.
The programme is open to LSE students and to students studying at one of global partner institutions.
This page will be updated with further information for prospective students soon.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/study-abroad/the-general-course:
Study abroad for one year in the heart of London at the world's leading social science institution
Explore our student video series to see more of life on the General Course
The UK's national advisory body serving the interests of international students
LSE's designated advice team on academic matters and UK student immigration.
The LSE alumni community comprises more than 230,000 people drawn from almost 200 countries
To speak to the General Course team, call us on +44 (0)20 7955 6860 (Monday-Friday 10.00-16.00, UK time)
You can email us at gc@lse.ac.uk
Student Recruitment and Study Abroad Office (Pankhurst House, 7th Floor), General Course Admissions, London School of Economics and Political Science, Houghton Street, WC2A 2AE

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/study-abroad/go-lse/outbound/Outbound-Students:
LSE is committed to producing global citizens and providing students with opportunities to enhance their degrees.
Study abroad exchange programmes allow LSE students to learn from a different academic perspective and immerse themselves in another culture, become more engaged citizens at home and abroad.
Anu shares her tips for staying happy and health while overseas
Foreign travel advice for UK nationals
Part of the Students@LSE blog
+44 (0) 20 7955 6860
ard.outbound@lse.ac.uk
Student Recruitment and Study Abroad  Office (PAN 7.01), London School of Economics and Political Science, Houghton Street, WC2A 2AE

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/study-abroad/go-lse/inbound-ug/Inbound-UG:
Explore these pages to learn more about your exchange at LSE on our Global Opportunities (GO) programme

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/meet-visit-and-discover-LSE/events/search-events:
Stockholm
Barcelona
Oslo
Cairo
Tokyo
Seoul
Warsaw
Mumbai
Pune
Bengaluru

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/meet-visit-and-discover-LSE/visit-lse/visit-lse:
Find out about the variety of opportunities for you to visit LSE.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Undergraduate/Prospective-Students/UK-students/information-for-prospective-UK-students:
Here at LSE, we celebrate our diverse student and staff communities, not only from around the world, but also from different parts of the UK.
If you would like to receive further information about studying at LSE, please register your interest.
As a specialist social science institution and a leading global university we want to ensure that the widest range of perspectives and experiences are present in our classrooms and on campus.
We celebrate this diversity through everything we do.
Student societies and activities Your time at LSE is not just about studying, there are plenty of ways to get involved in extracurricular activities .
From joining one of over 200 societies , or starting your own society, to volunteering for a local charity, or attending a public lecture by a world-leading figure, there is a lot to choose from.
The campus
LSE is based on one campus in the centre of London.
Despite the busy feel of the surrounding area, many of the streets around campus are pedestrianised, meaning the campus feels like a real community.
Life in London London is an exciting, vibrant and colourful city.
Make the most of career opportunities and social activities, theatres, museums, music and more.
Want to find out more?
Read about why we think London is a fantastic student city and have a look at our guide to key sights, places and experiences for new Londoners .
Don't fear, London doesn't have to be super expensive: find out more about studying in London on a budget .
For more information about living in London please request our London Life: Tips for students living in the city e-book .
And check out our students blogs on London life!
UK student societies
Whether you're looking to take up a new hobby or want to keep up an existing interest, there is something for everyone at LSE, from beekeeping to blockchain!
We have lots of academic societies, career orientated societies, activity and interest based societies, a student newspaper, two student journals, a radio station and an active Creative Network .
Our charity, campaigning, political, faith, national and cultural societies include the British People of Colour Society , Welsh society , Northern society , Pride Alliance , Social Mobility society , Hindu society and Amnesty International among others.
With over 40 sports clubs on offer, LSE is also a great place to enjoy a range of sports and physical activities, whether you're a beginner or competing as a top-level athlete.
Find out more about the LSESU Athletics Union here.
See a full list of LSESU societies .
LSE's Student Recruitment and Study Abroad team offers advice and guidance on the application process and opportunities to visit the LSE campus or experience LSE from home .
LSE's Widening Participation team also run a range of activities for students from groups which are under-represented in higher education and who are studying at state schools and colleges.
Activities include Taster Courses , Black Achievement Conference , Open Days and Campus Tours .
We also contribute towards the travel costs for eligible UK students travelling over 50 miles to visit the LSE campus for our Open Days, Offer Holders' Day and Taster Courses, through the LSE Travel Fund .
Care-experienced students
Please visit our dedicated webpage for care-experienced students to find out more about the support available to you before you apply to university, as well as the support offered to students once they're studying at LSE.
We strongly advise all care-experienced applicants to disclose this on their UCAS application form.
We also advise teachers to ensure this information is included in the student's UCAS reference .
This will enable our admissions team to take your full circumstances into consideration when they are assessing your application.
This is confidential and will not have any negative impact on your application.
UCAS have put together a useful video and a Care Leavers Guide explaining how to disclose your care experience on the application form, as well as the benefits of doing so.
If you would like to find out more about the support LSE offers to care-experienced students, or discuss your circumstances in more detail, please email us at ard.lsecares@lse.ac.uk
Students with caring responsibilities
Please visit our dedicated webpage for students with caring responsibilities.
We recommend that applicants with caring responsibilties ask their school or college to ensure this information is included in the student's UCAS reference .
Please also visit the UCAS website to access more information and guidance.
If you would like to speak someone about your specific circumstances, you can email us at ard.lsecares@lse.ac.uk
Students with a disability We strongly advise all applicants with a disability, long-term medical condition or specific learning difficulty to disclose this on their UCAS application form.
This will help us to understand the additional support you may need as early as possible in the application process and will not negatively impact your application.
This also enables us to put in place the appropriate support for you should you start studying at the School.
We would encourage you to look at the information our Disability and Wellbeing team have provided for prospective students and offer holders here .
See further information about the support offered by the LSE Disability and Wellbeing Service.
There is a wide range of support services and facilities available once you start at LSE, from academic guidance, advice, language support, personal and professional development and careers support to pastoral care, counselling and a Disability and Wellbeing Service.
LSE LIFE is the place to discover and develop skills you will use as a student at LSE and beyond.
With a full programme of workshops and other unique events, LSE LIFE helps you develop key skills for studying at LSE, from learning independently and critical thinking, to writing and conducting research.
Start your LSE LIFE here .
LSE accommodation or living at home
LSE offers a variety of styles of accommodation, catering for a wide range of personal preferences.
Options include LSE halls of residence, University of London intercollegiate residences and private halls.
Find out about accommodation options .
Accommodation bursaries are available for eligible students from the UK.
However, many of our students who come from London choose to live at home, in non-LSE halls of residence or with friends while studying.
Our Peer Support Scheme and Student Academic Mentor programme can help students feel more connected with the LSE community.
Read past student Kit's blog post about her experience of living at home whilst studying at LSE.
For UK applicants, contextual information will be used by our admissions selectors to assess achievement and potential whilst recognising the challenges an applicant may have faced in their educational or individual circumstances.
Full details on the types of contextual information we look for in applications can be found here .
You do not need to do anything in addition to the standard UCAS application, your application will automatically have the contextual information added when we receive it.
We will also use the information supplied in your teacher’s reference to find out more about your educational and social circumstances, as well as details of any extenuating circumstances .
This information can be used to:
Eligible students (criteria can be viewed here ), may be eligible for a contextual offer, where the contextual offer is one or two grades lower than the standard offer for the programme.
Any mathematics requirement must still be met.
All academic departments are participating in the contextual offer scheme.
The contextual offer grades are listed alongside the standard offer A-level and IB entry requirements on the relevant programme pages .
Further contextual admissions information .
The School provides generous financial support , in the form of bursaries and scholarships to UK students.
See below for details or read our funding guide here .
LSE Bursaries
Undergraduate students from the UK are eligible for an LSE Bursary assessed according to household income.
Depending on your household income, you could be eligible for up to £4,000 per year.
There is no limit to the number of LSE Bursaries available and all students who are eligible for an LSE Bursary will receive one.
The LSE Bursary does not have to be repaid.
See if you are eligible here .
LSE Discretionary Bursaries
A number of Discretionary Bursaries are available for UK LSE students who face exceptional financial need.
The value of the award may vary according to need, but is not expected to exceed a total of £4,000 combined with the LSE Bursary.
LSE Accommodation Bursaries
An LSE Accommodation Bursary is designed to encourage students from lower-income households to apply for accommodation in halls.
Available for UK nationals, the value of the award will vary depending on the number of recipients and their financial need.
LSE Care Experienced and Estranged Student Bursaries
LSE's Care Experienced and Estranged Student Bursary is available to provide additional financial support to care experienced and estranged students.
The Bursary has a value of £1,000 per year, for a maximum of 4 years of study, and is offered in addition to any other LSE financial support eligible students are awarded.
LSE scholarships
Each year LSE awards a number of scholarships , funded by private or corporate donation, to our students.
The number, value, eligibility criteria and type of awards vary from year to year.
These include typically seven undergraduate scholarships for UK students through the Uggla Family Scholars Programme , for students with the greatest financial need from groups underrepresented in higher education, including students from Black, Minority, Ethnic (BME) backgrounds and students who are care-experienced.
LSE is also offering LSE Access to Education Scholarships made up of support for the tuition fee and living costs for:
Funding is available from the UK Government for students from the UK to assist with the cost of your studies.
Students from Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales
Students living in Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales receive their financial support from their “home” devolved administration.
Check the relevant website below for the latest information on fees and financial support available: Student Finance Wales , Student Awards Agency Scotland , Student Finance Northern Ireland .
Tuition fee loans
Students ordinarily resident in England can apply for a tuition fee loan from the UK Government.
The loan covers the full cost of the tuition fee for the duration of your undergraduate programme.
This means that tuition fees do not have to be paid up front.
Maintenance loans
All eligible students from England are able to take out a maintenance loan to help with living costs.
There are two elements to the maintenance loan: a guaranteed loan and an income assessed loan.
Student Finance England provide lots of helpful videos including on how to apply and deadlines on YouTube .
You should apply for both of your loans (maintenance and tuition fee) in the Spring before you start University.
The deadline is usually in May.
Please visit gov.uk and slc.co.uk for further details.
What do LSE graduates do?
S upport for your career
There are lots of ways for you to find out more about studying at LSE.
See our Visit LSE page to find out more about opportunities to visit the campus, including campus tours, Open Days, and our Drop-in service with the Student Recruitment and Study Abroad team.
We have a range of virtual resources which will help you find out more about our degree programmes, student life at LSE and making a competitive application.
Visit our online resources to find out more:
The LSE Widening Participation team also run a range of activities for students from groups which are under-represented in higher education and who are studying at state schools and colleges.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/undergraduate/ba-anthropology-and-law:
Our BA Anthropology and Law brings together two different, but complementary fields – with an equal focus on both areas.
Through anthropology, you’ll explore how our lives are shaped by religious, political and economic systems.
You’ll engage in debates about social justice, multiculturalism, race, gender and the direction of political and economic change in today’s world.
The law components delve into the legal system and the technical procedures needed to practise law.
The programme provides full training in anthropological research methods.
There’s also the chance to complete an in-depth ethnographic study, take part in our summer fieldwork placements scheme, and apply for a year abroad with one of our global partners.
You’ll be encouraged to critically evaluate topics and see the world from new perspectives – all within a friendly, supportive, yet academically challenging environment.
Our academics are leaders in the field.
We were rated as the best anthropology department in the UK for our research (REF 2021) and 3rd in the UK for law in the QS World University Rankings 2023.
Please refer to our website and www.sra.org.uk/sra/policy/sqe for further information and updates.
If you wish to gain further insight into social anthropology, we suggest that you look at one or more of the following books.
The general introductory texts will allow you to get a sense of the discipline's coverage, while the ethnographies will allow you to dig deeper into specific isues and give you a flavour of the primary materials you will be engaging with during your degree.
We've offered a wide selection to allow you to choose texts that mesh closely with your personal interests.
Gender, poetry and emotions:
Cyber-ethnography, the virtual:
Gender, sexuality:
Hunter-gatherers, shamanism, cosmology:
Race, education and achievement:
Economics, globalisation:
Medical ethics, law, feminism:
War, anti-colonialism/nationalism, religion:
Postcolonialism, exchange, modernity:
Christianity, morality, conversion:
A fascinating and influential overview of the ways in which legal systems and punishments reflect historical/cultural shifts in the way in which power is practiced and statecraft is conceptualised:
Current "gold standard" of legal anthropology; focuses on how law is brought into being:
Colonial law, legacies for postcolonial societies:
Classic account of the paradoxes of legal practice:
Fascinating insight into how law and punishment operates in Melanesia:
Here, you can check our entry requirements for GCSEs, A-levels (please read them alongside our information about subject combinations) and the International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma.
We also consider applications from students with a range of other UK qualifications and from overseas.
Please select the overseas button below and choose your country from the dropdown list to find the equivalency to A-levels of your qualification.
For GCSEs, you’ll need a strong pre-16 academic profile such as several GCSE grades of A (or 7) and A* (or 8-9).
We also ask for a good set of GCSE grades or equivalent across a broad range of subjects, with a minimum of grade B (or 6) in GCSE English Language and Mathematics.
AAB
We also consider your AS grades, if available.
ABB
Read our undergraduate admissions information to learn more about contextual admissions.
Find out more about A-level subject combinations .
37 points overall, with 666 in higher level subjects
36 points overall, with 665 at higher level
We
welcome students from all walks of life at LSE.
We want to recruit students
with the very best academic merit, potential and motivation.
So, whatever your
background, please do apply.
Get all the details on our general entry requirements .
Competition for places at LSE is high.
We cannot guarantee you an offer of a place even if you’re predicted or achieve our standard entry requirements.
Our standard offer requirements are intended only as a guide and, in some cases, you’ll be asked for different grades.
Your time will be divided equally between anthropology and law.
On this programme, you’ll study 12 units over three years, plus LSE100 .
There’s also an opportunity to apply for a year abroad with one of our global exchange partners.
In your first year, you’ll take four compulsory courses – divided equally between anthropology and law.
Additionally, you’ll complete a course on legal studies skills, an introductory course on legal systems and another in careers in Law.
You'll also take LSE100.
Your second year includes compulsory courses in law and in political and legal anthropology.
You’ll also choose one further anthropology option (or two half units).
Previous topics have included kinship, the study of selected world regions, development and globalisation.
In your final year, you’ll take one compulsory course in law and choose half-unit courses on both transnational law and legal theory from a range of options.
You'll also choose an option in anthropology (worth one unit) and a final option in either law or anthropology.
You
may be able to take a language, literature or linguistics option as part of
your degree.
Find all the details on our Language Centre web pages .
Some
major changes to programmes/courses are posted on our updated undergraduate course and programme information page .
Discover more about our students and department.
The Department of Anthropology is world-leading and internationally renowned – rated the top anthropology department in London ( Good University Guide 2025 ).
Our work is rooted in ethnographic research: we explore how different societies and communities work.
We ask big questions about what people have in common and what makes us different – challenging traditional assumptions and ideas.
Anthropology has been taught at LSE since 1904.
The department rose to prominence under Malinowski – the founder of British social anthropology.
Many of the leading figures in the field have taught and/or studied at LSE.
Today, we strive to work in the best radical traditions of the discipline while constantly pushing our thinking in new directions.
The department offers a mix of
undergraduate and postgraduate study opportunities, including a single honours
degree in Social Anthropology and a joint undergraduate Anthropology and Law programme.
We have a dynamic and active research community.
Long-term anthropological fieldwork is a key strength of our department.
Most staff are involved in ongoing field research, in both well-established and emerging fields.
Our academics also work at the intersections with other disciplines, including history, cognitive psychology and religious studies.
The department has strong international links.
Leading scholars from around the world come to LSE as visiting academics.
Postdoctoral fellows and PhD students also make important contributions to the department’s research.
We’re proud to welcome students from all over the world and diverse academic backgrounds to our vibrant, welcoming and inclusive department.
We consider each application carefully, taking into account all the details you’ve included on your UCAS form, such as:
You may also have to provide evidence of your English proficiency, although this is not needed at the application stage.
See our English language requirements page .
We’re looking for students who demonstrate:
You're charged a fee for each year of your programme.
It doesn't cover living costs or travel or fieldwork.
Home student fee per each year of your programme
This is the 2026/27 tuition fee.
The home student undergraduate fee may rise in line with inflation in subsequent years.
Overseas student fee per each year of your programme
This is the 2026/27 fee for each year of your programme.
The overseas tuition fee will remain at the same amount for each subsequent year of your full-time study regardless of the length of your programme.
This information applies to new overseas undergraduate entrants starting their studies from 2026/27 onwards.
Your tuition fees, and eligibility for any financial support, depend on whether you’re classified as a home or an overseas student – known as your fee status.
We assess your fee status based on guidelines from the UK Government’s Department for Education.
Learn more about fee status classification .
We recognise that the cost of living in London may be higher than in your home town or country.
LSE provides generous financial support, in the form of bursaries and scholarships, to UK, EU and overseas students.
Additionally, the UK Government provides loans to UK and some EU students.
Some overseas governments also offer funding.
Further information on loans and scholarships .
Format: most courses involve weekly one-hour lectures and classes, where you discuss reading assignments in small groups with a teacher.
Contact hours: in the first two terms you’ll typically have eight hours or more of formal teaching a week.
Hours vary depending on the course.
Get a broad idea of the study time involved in the Calendar within the Teaching section of each course guide .
Additionally, we show films about anthropology and the world's cultures in the first two terms.
There are also tutorial meetings, linked to essay assignments.
Independent study: you’ll be expected to complete independent study outside your classes.
This varies depending on the programme and you’ll need to manage your study time effectively.
Independent study typically involves reading, note-taking and research.
LSE teaching: LSE has a world-leading reputation in teaching and research.
So, you’ll be taught by highly experienced academics, many of whom are nationally and internationally renowned.
Courses may be taught by our academics, guest speakers, visiting members of staff, LSE teaching fellows and graduate teaching assistants, who are usually doctoral research students.
Learn about the teacher responsible for each course in the relevant course guide.
Academic mentor: you’ll meet with your academic mentor regularly to discuss your work.
Your mentor can provide advice and guidance on academic issues and, where appropriate, personal concerns.
Other academic support: at LSE, we offer lots of opportunities to extend your learning outside the classroom.
Formative
unassessed coursework
A ll taught courses include formative coursework, which is not assessed.
This coursework prepares you for summative assessment, which counts towards your course mark and the degree award.
We use a wide range of formative assessment methods, including essays, problem sets, case studies, reports, quizzes, mock exams and many others.
Feedback on coursework is an important part of the learning experience.
Your coursework will be marked and typically returned within two weeks – provided it’s been submitted on time.
Summative
assessment
Summative assessment counts towards your final course mark and degree award.
Summative assessment for anthropology courses is either by coursework (which usually involves one or two substantial essays per course), a take-home exam, or an unseen examination.
Law courses are normally examined wholly by unseen examination.
This assessment will vary from course to course and from year to year.
You’ll receive feedback on any summative coursework as part of the assessment for individual courses (except on final submitted dissertations).
Feedback is normally given before the examination period.
Learn more
about the current formative coursework and summative assessment for each course
in the relevant course guide .
Find out more about LSE’s teaching and assessment methods .
Our BA Anthropology and Law graduates have proven very employable both inside and outside the legal profession.
Recent leavers have secured training contracts at world renowned law firms, whilst others have been taken on as analysts and consultants.
Others still have used the legal and social insights gained in their degree to set up their own NGOs or start their own businesses.
The analytical, critical and communication skills and legal and social insights gained within the BA Anthropology and Law provide an excellent foundation for many careers and can be applied to a wide range of industries.
For example, recent graduates have gone on to work in journalism, development, medicine and counselling, law, human rights, nursing, teaching, business, theatre and film.
The programme also establishes a good grounding for research in critical legal studies, or vocationally-oriented training in fields such as policy and planning.
Changes to qualifying as a solicitor in England and Wales (SQE)
Becoming a solicitor (Solicitors Regulation Authority)
Further information on the Bar Professional Training Course
Every undergraduate programme of more than one year duration will have Discover Uni data.
The data allows you to compare information about individual programmes at different higher education institutions.
Programmes offered by different institutions with similar names can vary quite significantly.
We recommend researching the programmes you're interested in and taking into account the programme structure, teaching and assessment methods, and support services available.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/undergraduate/ba-geography:
During your studies, you’ll develop your skills in analysing and evaluating geographical information and completing fieldwork.
There’s an opportunity to take part in a field trip in the second year and also study a language specialism – with the option to add this to your degree award.
See the Programme Structure and Courses section for details.
LSE is ranked second for geography in the QS World University Rankings 2025 and our academics offer expertise in an extremely broad range of areas – including economic, political, environmental and social geography.
By the time you graduate, you’ll have all the skills needed to embark on a career in the environmental sector but also in many other areas such as financial services, IT and data analysis, government and policy setting and journalism.
If you wish to gain further insight into the subject, we suggest that you look at one or more of the following books:
For GCSEs, you should have already achieved a strong set of GCSE grades, including the majority at A (or 7) and A* (or 8-9).
Your GCSE (or equivalent) English Language and Mathematics grades should be no lower than B (or 6).
We also consider your overall GCSE subject profile.
AAA
We consider your combination of subjects as well as your grades.
38 points overall, including 766 at higher level
36 points overall, including 665 at higher level
You’ll also complete a dissertation in your final year.
Fieldwork is an important element of this programme and you can take part in an international field trip on the second-year Field Methods in Geography course (see the Fees and Funding section for details of costs).
You’ll need to complete a minimum of 27 hours of independent study across all your courses.
You’ll take three compulsory courses and choose one course from four options.
Alternatively, for your fourth course, you can choose from an option from outside the department, including a language course.
You’ll also take LSE100.
In your second year, the core courses provide a thorough grounding in geographical methods.
You’ll also take a course in Pathways in Human Geography and further geography and environment options (two units).
This can include one approved language option.
You’ll complete a dissertation and choose further geography and environment options (three units).
If you’ve taken and passed at least one language course in each year of your degree (25% of your programme of study), you can add a language specialism to your degree award and certificate – eg BA Geography (with French).
To qualify, students must take all courses in the same language (French, Spanish, German, Mandarin or Russian).
The three courses must also become consecutively harder (such as beginner, intermediate and advanced).
Our department is highly regarded both nationally and internationally – ranked second for Geography in the QS World University Rankings 2025 .
Here at LSE, we offer a unique opportunity to study geography in a university with a worldwide reputation in the social sciences.
We specialise in economic, urban and development geography, environmental social science and climate change, all with a strong emphasis on real-world applications.
Many of our academics are internationally renowned in their fields.
You’ll find a good balance of experienced and younger academics in the department.
Within the team, we’ve had three holders of the highly prestigious Philip Leverhulme Prize Fellowships for researchers under the age of 36.
Our research is interdisciplinary and international in its scope and we work closely with academics from several other departments at LSE.
Teaching staff are active within the following research centres:
Based in the heart of London opposite Lincoln’s Inn Fields, the department offers a lively, welcoming and supportive community for students and staff.
Learn more about our undergraduate , postgraduate and PhD study opportunities,
as well as our research .
You should expect to pay a contribution of approximately £500 towards your fieldtrip for the second year course Field Methods in Geography.
There are fieldtrip bursaries available from the department for students who can document financial need.
An alternative field exercise will be undertaken by students who are unable to participate in the above one-week residential fieldtrip.
There are fieldtrip bursaries available from the Department for students who can document financial need.
Format and contact hours: you’ll have lectures and classes for 12 to 15 hours per week in the first year.
Further details are given in the Calendar within the Teaching section of each course guide .
Independent study: you’ll be expected to complete independent study in addition to lectures and classes.
LSE teaching: our teaching and research is internationally renowned.
You’ll be taught by assistant professors, associate professors, professors and LSE fellows.
Lectures are normally given by academic staff while classes are normally led by PhD students or LSE fellows.
Learn about the teacher responsible for each course in the relevant course guide .
You’ll complete practical work for courses involving spatial analysis and research techniques.
The programme also involves fieldwork – sometimes overseas.
Formative coursework
All taught courses include formative coursework, which is not assessed.
This helps prepare you for summative assessment, which counts towards your course mark and degree award.
We use a range of formative assessment methods, such as essays, case studies, reports, quizzes and mock exams.
Feedback is an essential part of the learning experience at the School.
You’ll receive feedback on any formative coursework within three weeks – provided it’s submitted on time.
Summative assessment
This counts towards your final course mark and degree award.
Most full units are assessed through coursework and/or Summer Term exams.
You’ll also receive feedback on summative coursework.
Assessment methods vary by course so this information provides a general guide only.
Read about the current formative coursework and summative assessment for each course in the relevant course guide .
Recent graduates from this programme have gone on to work in the areas of financial services, planning, consultancy, administration, marketing, development, teaching and further study.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/undergraduate/ba-history:
This degree is distinctive for its international perspective on the past.
Spanning the 15th century to the present day, the programme pays as much attention to political, economic, social and cultural developments that have shaped states as to the relationships between them.
You can choose from a wide range of history courses covering virtually every region of the world and period in history.
The Department of International History is world-leading for research and teaching.
Taught by internationally acclaimed academics, you’ll develop your analytical powers, analyse complex evidence from a variety of sources and learn how to present your findings clearly – all highly transferable skills that are valued by employers.
You can also take options from other departments, including a language specialism – see the Programme Structure and Courses section for details.
LSE history graduates continue to have one of the best rates of employability and earnings after graduation in the UK.
Our graduates secure rewarding and challenging careers in politics, journalism, the media consulting, law, research and teaching.
If you wish to gain further insight into the subject we suggest that you look at one or more of the following books:
38 points overall , including 766 at higher level
37 points overall , including 666 at higher level
You’ll take two compulsory courses and two course options (chosen from three history courses), one international relations course, language courses and options from other departments.
Additionally, you’ll take LSE100.
In your second year, you can choose from a range of history courses and an option from another department.
In your final year, you’ll take three history options or two history options plus an option from outside the department.
You’ll also research and write a 10,000-word dissertation on a topic of your choice.
If you’ve taken and passed at least one language course in each year of your degree (25% of your programme of study), you can add a language specialism to your degree award and certificate – eg BA History (with French).
History is a wide ranging and challenging subject to study.
It seeks to understand the past and to make sense of the present, adding an important dimension to the understanding of many aspects of human society.
The department is world renowned in its field, offering a unique perspective on the history of relations between states, peoples and cultures.
We pride ourselves on giving students the benefit of ground-breaking research throughout our teaching programmes.
Our degrees will give you a broad international perspective on the past.
We give attention both to domestic and international issues and many of the courses we offer deal with major events in the history of international relations.
Since the behaviour of countries in the international arena cannot be understood without a knowledge of their distinct social, political, economic and cultural characteristics, we provide courses covering major aspects of the history of ideas and mentalities.
LSE was founded in 1895 originally as an institute of higher education for graduate students.
The department reflects this tradition and takes its responsibility for undergraduate teaching and supervision very seriously.
We admit nearly as many undergraduate students as master's students.
We have one of the most cosmopolitan undergraduate communities in London and one of the most vibrant and dynamic.
Learn more about our programmes , research , public events and people .
Format and contact hours: you’ll attend lectures and small classes – with around eight hours of contact time each week.
Independent study: you’ll need to spend 15 to 20 hours each week on independent study during term time and holidays.
This will involve reading extensively and writing between three to five essays and/or class papers per course.
LSE teaching: LSE is internationally recognised for teaching and research and you’ll be taught by academic staff and PhD students.
Learn more about the teacher responsible for each course in the relevant course guide .
All taught courses are required to include formative coursework which is unassessed.
It is designed to help prepare you for summative assessment which counts towards the course mark and to the degree award.
LSE uses a range of formative assessment, such as essays, problem sets, case studies, reports, quizzes, mock exams and many others.
Feedback on coursework is an essential part of the teaching and learning experience at the School.
Class teachers must mark formative coursework and return it with feedback to you normally within two weeks of submission (when the work is submitted on time).
Some courses will be assessed by written assessment and many contain elements of continuous summative assessment.
Please note that assessment on individual courses can change year to year.
You will also receive feedback on any summative coursework you are required to submit as part of the assessment for individual courses (except on the final version of submitted dissertations).
You will normally receive this feedback before the examination period.
An indication of the current formative coursework and summative assessment for each course can be found in the relevant course guide .
Find out more about LSE’s teaching and assessment methods
Through studying history you'll learn how to analyse complex evidence from a variety of sources, to develop your analytical powers and to present your findings effectively.
These skills and a broad knowledge of the development of the world around us are valued by many employers.
Past students have followed a range of careers in politics, journalism, media and publishing, advertising, marketing, and public relations, public administration, the foreign service, industry, the charity and development sector, finance, consulting and the legal profession, as well as in research, teaching, libraries and archives.
We're committed to supporting students' options after 
graduation in the world of work or futher studies by organising a careers programme tailored specifically to International History students with the help of LSE Careers .
Also, many leading organisations give careers presentations at the 
School during the year, and LSE Careers has a wide range of resources 
available to assist students in their job search.
Find out more about 
the support available to students through LSE Careers .

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/undergraduate/ba-social-anthropology:
If you’re an imaginative, critical thinker who wants to understand why the world is as it is, our BA Social Anthropology is the perfect choice.
You’ll examine the variable and universal aspects of human culture and society and the political, economic, family, and religious systems that influence people’s beliefs, values and practices.
At every stage, we’ll encourage you to look at the world in new ways and challenge your own perceptions.
Rated the top anthropology department in the UK for research, LSE has pioneered anthropology fieldwork methodologies used worldwide.
The programme provides full training in anthropological research methods and you’ll complete an in-depth ethnographic study .
You can take part in our Summer fieldwork projects scheme and apply to spend a year abroad with one of our global partners.
All students have the option to add a language specialism to their degree – see the "Programme content" section for details.
We have offered a wide selection to allow you to choose texts that mesh closely with your personal interests.
We also ask for a good set of GCSE grades or equivalent across a broad range of subjects, with a minimum of grade B (or 6) in GCSE English and Mathematics.
ABC
35 points overall, with 655 in higher level subjects
Anthropology can be considered an art or a science so you choose either the BA or BSc title for your degree award – the course content is the same.
See BSc Social Anthropology .
You’ll have the chance to apply for a year abroad with one of our partners.
If you take and pass at least one course from the departments of Government or International History in each year of your degree (25% of the overall programme), you’ll have the option to add a specialism from the subject studied to your degree award, for example:
BA in Social Anthropology (with Politics)
BA in Social Anthropology (with International History)
To qualify, you must take an introductory course in your first year and more advanced courses in the second and third years.
The first year covers foundational knowledge in social anthropology.
You’ll take three compulsory anthropology courses plus an introductory option from another department.
These options include: economics, geography, international relations, law, philosophy, politics, sociology, social psychology, language and literature.
Additionally, you’ll ​also take LSE100.
Developing your skills in anthropology further, you’ll design and complete your own research project.
Year 2 allows you to deepen your knowledge of core anthropology themes with four half units from our list of semi-core courses.
You can also choose social anthropology courses (worth one unit) from additional core courses, anthropology options or options from another department.
Depending on timetabling, you may also be able to take options from three colleges at the University of London with anthropology departments – Goldsmiths, University College London, and the School of Oriental and African Studies.
This year allows you to specialise in your chosen areas of interest.
You’ll write an extended essay (dissertation) based on your chosen anthropological topic and take social anthropology courses (worth three units).
These are chosen from our list of semi-core courses and anthropology options (which may include an option from another department).
You may be able to take options from three colleges at the University of London with anthropology departments (as above for second-year courses).
If you take and pass at least one language course in each year of your degree
(25% of the overall programme), you’ll have the option to add a language
specialism to your degree award and transcript.
So, if you took French, you’d
graduate with a BA in Social Anthropology (with French) .
To qualify, you must take all courses in the same language (French, Spanish, German, Mandarin or Russian).
The three courses must also get progressively more difficult (eg beginner, intermediate and advanced).
Format and contact hours: most courses involve weekly one-hour lectures and classes where you’ll discuss reading assignments in small groups with a teacher.
In the first two terms, you’ll typically have eight or more hours of formal tuition a week.
Additionally, we show films about anthropology and global cultures during the first two terms.
You’ll also have tutorial meetings, linked to essay assignments.
LSE teaching: our School is internationally recognised for teaching and research and so you’ll learn from academics with wide-ranging expertise.
Courses may be taught by individual members of our faculty, guest lecturers, visiting members of staff, teaching fellows and graduate teaching assistants, who are usually doctoral research students.
This helps prepare you for summative assessment.
We use a wide range of formative assessment methods, such as essays, case studies, reports, quizzes and mock exams.
Feedback on coursework is an essential part of the learning experience.
Class teachers mark formative coursework and feedback is normally given within three weeks – provided the work is submitted on time.
This assessment counts towards your final course mark and degree award.
Summative assessment is generally through continuous assessment, take-home examination or a traditional unseen examination in May or June each year.
In the second year, you’ll conduct an ethnographic study and write a report (up to 5,000 words) and, in the final year, you’ll write an extended essay (up to 8,000 words).
You’ll receive feedback on any summative coursework as part of the assessment for individual courses.
Feedback is normally given within four weeks – provided the work is submitted on time.
Social anthropology is not a vocational degree, but the capacities for critical analysis and lateral thinking you gain will provide an excellent foundation in many careers.
What really makes our anthropology graduates stand out is their ability to simultaneously see the big picture and appreciate how a policy or idea will play out on the ground.
Recent graduates have gone on to work in journalism, development, medicine and counselling, law, human rights, nursing, teaching, business, theatre and film.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/undergraduate/bsc-accounting-and-finance:
Taught by our world-leading academics, this programme explores accounting and finance through the broader social sciences.
As well as developing your core financial knowledge, you’ll examine the ways institutions and organisations deal with calculation, reporting and evaluation.
You’ll look at the interdependencies between accounting and accountability, financial management and risk, performance management and sustainability, governance and regulation, policymaking and change.
The programme explores the role accounting and finance play in societies, economies, institutions, markets, organisations, and even individual behaviours.
This interdisciplinary learning means that our graduates are highly sought-after in many areas, such as professional accountancy, investment banking and analysis, management consulting and financial management.
Depending on your chosen course options, you may be eligible for exemptions from some professional accountancy examinations on graduation – giving you a head start in your career.
This programme is accredited by the following bodies for the purpose of exemptions from some professional examinations:
If you'd like to gain further insight into accounting and finance, we suggest that you browse some of these review papers/opinion pieces.
Some of the readings are quite academic - don't worry about the details, the aim is to introduce you to some critical issues in accounting and finance.
For additional readings in Finance, please see the BSc Finance preliminary reading list.
In addition, if you'd like to familiarise yourself with the research areas of some of our accounting faculty members (in bold), you may want to browse the following review papers or pieces written for wider audiences:
For GCSEs, you’ll need several GCSE grades at A (or 7) and A* (or 8-9).
As a minimum, we ask for GCSE English Language and Mathematics grades at B (6) or higher.
We’ll also consider your overall GCSE subject profile.
AAA with A in Mathematics
AAB with A in Mathematics
38 points overall.
766 in higher level subjects, including 6 in higher level Mathematics
37 points overall.
666 in higher level subjects, including 6 in higher level Mathematics
Your time will be split equally between accounting and finance and other related disciplines.
You’ll have opportunities to specialise in various fields within accounting and finance.
Your first year includes introductory courses in accounting and finance, economics, mathematics and statistics, plus LSE100.
You can also take an option from outside the department.
You’ll take two accounting courses and a Principles of Finance course.
Additionally, you’ll take three economics courses and one or more options from outside the department.
Your final year includes two compulsory accounting courses, one compulsory finance course and two accounting options (from a choice of four).
You’ll also take external options (one unit in total).
Welcome to the Department of Accounting – one of the world’s leading centres for accounting and financial management research.
The department was rated the top place in the UK to study accounting ( Good University Guide 2025 ).
Our work is focused on understanding
the role played by accounting in organisations, the markets and society at
large.
We have strong links with national and international professional bodies
and regulatory institutions, and our research has contributed to shaping
international accounting practices.
Alongside teaching and research, the
department also hosts the interdisciplinary Centre for Analysis of Risk and Regulation .
Every year, we admit more than 400 students to our undergraduate and postgraduate programmes.
Our students don’t just learn about accounting principles – they learn how accounting is used in institutional and organisational processes of calculation, reporting and evaluation.
This involves exploring the interdependencies between accounting and accountability, sustainability, governance, risk, performance management, policymaking and change.
We’re proud of our open and collaborative culture, welcoming students, academics, external speakers and practitioners from around the world – all contributing to our rich and diverse community.
Format and contact hours: you’ll have around 12 to 15 hours of lectures and classes each week.
You’ll also be expected to complete independent study outside your classes – which will involve reading, writing essays or working on class assignments.
LSE teaching: our School is world-renowned for teaching and research in accounting and finance and you’ll be taught by an experienced and diverse teaching team.
Courses may be taught by members of our faculty, guest teachers, visiting members of staff, teaching fellows and graduate teaching assistants, who are usually doctoral research students.
Class teachers mark formative coursework and give feedback within two weeks – provided the work is submitted on time.
Summative assessment usually involves written examinations at the end of
each academic year.
Some courses also have written examinations in January
while others are assessed partly by essays or other work submitted during the
year.
Assessment on individual courses can change from year to year.
Learn
about the current formative coursework and summative assessment for each course
in the relevant course guide .
You’ll receive feedback on any summative coursework as part of the assessment for individual courses (except for final submitted dissertations).
Generally, feedback will be provided before the examination period.
Recent graduates of this programme have gone on to work in the areas of professional accountancy, investment banking, investment analysis, management consultancy and financial management, the public sector, as well as further academic study.
If you successfully complete the degree, then depending on the optional courses you've taken, you may be eligible for exemptions from some examinations of the professional accountancy bodies.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/undergraduate/bsc-actuarial-science:
The BSc in Actuarial Science at LSE is a programme of study that provides an intriguing blend of statistics, mathematics, finance, and the social sciences.
It's designed for students with a strong mathematics aptitude and an interest to learn from a social science perspective that embraces multifaceted interdisciplinary approaches and insights (eg, societal context and ethical dimensions).
Students will learn through an approach characterised by its academic rigour, mathematical focus, and applications to solve important problems and tackle complex challenges especially for insurance, finance, climate change, government, commerce industry, and academic research.
It aims to provide students with the intellectual foundation to prepare them for further study, or for professional and managerial careers, particularly in the actuarial profession or in other areas requiring the application of quantitative skills (eg, risk analysis and management; business and investment analysis) to support informed decision-making.
Finally, this is a broad-based degree programme within which students may choose to study a specialist area according to their developing interests and career plans.
Many students find and complete work experience in actuarial and financial firms with support from our department and LSE Careers.
Typically, our graduates move on to high-earning careers in insurance (life and general), banking, finance, pension, consultancy, and statistics.
This programme is also available with a placement year – BSc Actuarial Science (with a Placement Year) – which can greatly enhance your career prospects and provide invaluable workplace experience.
This sets you apart from other graduates in a competitive employment market.
Learn more about this programme’s accreditation and exemptions
Watch The Joy of Stats ,  a documentary that gives an insight into the exciting world of statistics.
For an introduction to mathematics as it's applied in economics and finance:
Much of university level mathematics and statistics is concerned with formal proofs and rigorous mathematical argument and this is necessary for some of the advanced mathematics required in finance, economics and other fields of application.
For an introduction, we recommend:
A*AA, with an A* in Mathematics
Where it's offered by your school or college, AS- or A-level Further Mathematics is expected to be taken and a grade A achieved.
A*AB with an A* in Mathematics
39 points overall, including 766 in higher level subjects, with 7 in "Mathematics: analysis and approaches"
38 points overall, including 766 in higher level subjects, with 7 in "Mathematics: analysis and approaches"
Applicants are encouraged to take the Test of Mathematics for University Admission (TMUA) .
The test is not mandatory, however a good performance on the test may make an application more competitive.
On this programme, you’ll study 12 units over three years, plus LSE100.
The BSc Actuarial Science (with a Placement Year) runs for four years, with a placement year in Year 3.
The programme structure is the same for the other years.
The following will outline the compulsory courses that you'll take on the programme.
In addition to these courses, you'll have opportunities to take a good range of optional courses in statistics, mathematics, finance, economics, accounting, and management that are offered at LSE.
Due to its diversity, we're not outlining these optional courses here, but information about these courses can be found in the programme regulations.
You’ll take two compulsory courses in mathematics and statistics, alongside microeconomics and macroeconomics.
Your second year involves six compulsory half-unit courses.
In the final year, you'll take two compulsory half-unit courses, and a semi-optional unit of course(s).
The Department of Statistics at LSE is one of the oldest and most distinguished in the UK.
The department has an international reputation for the development of statistical methodology and a long history of pioneering contributions to research and teaching.
Many of the world’s most famous and innovative statisticians have been associated with LSE.
Our research spans four main areas – data science , probability in finance and insurance , social statistics , and time series and statistical learning .
The department has close links with the Data Science Institute at LSE – an interdisciplinary institute that fosters the study of data science, with a particular emphasis on the social, economic and political contexts.
All aspects of our research were
ranked world-leading or internationally excellent in the most recent Research Excellence
Framework (2021), submitted jointly with the Department of Mathematics .
The department’s research strengths are reflected in our teaching curriculum.
We have a comprehensive range of undergraduate and postgraduate degrees and doctoral research opportunities – hosted in a vibrant department with a supportive and friendly community of staff and students.
Our alumni enjoy successful careers in diverse areas, such as banking, accounting, finance, statistics, government and business consulting while others pursue postgraduate study or research.
Our alumni frequently return to LSE to share their career experiences with current students.
Format and contact hours: you’ll usually attend lectures and related classes, seminars or workshops for 10 to 15 hours per week.
Independent study: y ou’ll be expected to complete independent study and manage your time effectively.
Typically, this will include research, reading and note-taking.
LSE teaching: our School is internationally recognised for teaching and research and you’ll learn from academics with a wide range of experience and knowledge.
Courses may be taught by our academic staff, guest teachers, visiting members of staff, LSE teaching fellows and graduate teaching assistants, who are usually doctoral research students.
Learn about the teacher responsible for each course in the relevant course guide .
Class teachers mark formative coursework and feedback is normally given within two weeks – provided the work is submitted on time.
Summative assessment for most courses is by a three-hour examination in June.
A small number of courses are assessed by project work.
Your degree award will be based on assessment over all three years, with an emphasis on the second and third years.
Feedback will normally be provided before the examination period.
See details of the current formative coursework and summative assessment for each course in the relevant course guide .
Graduates from the programme will be able to work on a range of financial services organisations from companies which operate in the life and general insurance sector through to accounting firms, specialist actuarial consultancies, investment banks , data analytics, statistics, civil service and graduate studies.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/undergraduate/bsc-actuarial-science-with-a-placement-year:
The BSc Actuarial Science (with a Placement Year) at LSE is a highly analytical programme of study that blends rigorous academic study with applied professional experience.
Delivered by the internationally recognised Department of Statistics, the programme draws on LSE’s strengths as a leading social science institution.
Students benefit from exposure to cutting-edge research and interdisciplinary teaching, with insights drawn from statistics, mathematics, economics and finance.
This broad perspective prepares students to analyse and manage risk and uncertainty in financial and insurance markets, while also understanding the wider social, regulatory, and ethical contexts in which decisions are made.
A distinctive feature of the programme is the integrated industry placement year, undertaken between the second and final years of study.
The placement allows students to apply their learning in a professional setting, build practical skills, and gain direct insight into actuarial or statistical work.
Students secure placements with major insurance, consultancy, and financial firms, supported by the department and LSE Careers.
This professional experience enhances students’ readiness for the workplace, helping them refine career goals and often leading to graduate job offers.
Graduates typically progress into high-earning roles across insurance (life and general), pensions, investment, banking, and consultancy.
The programme also offers the opportunity to earn exemptions from professional examinations with the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries (IFoA), supporting a faster route to qualification.
Graduates leave not only with deep technical knowledge and real-world experience, but also with the ability to apply actuarial and statistical thinking to some of the most pressing global issues, including climate risk, financial resilience, and sustainable investment.
Whether entering the private or public sector, students are equipped to contribute to data-driven, responsible decision-making in a complex and rapidly changing world.
This programme is also available as a three-year programme without a placement year: BSc Actuarial Science .
You'll study 12 units over four years, including LSE100 and an integrated industry placement in your third year.
The academic structure in Years 1, 2, and 4 follows that of the three-year BSc Actuarial Science programme.
The compulsory courses for this programme are outlined below.
Alongside these, you'll have the opportunity to select from a broad range of optional courses in fields such as statistics, mathematics, finance, economics, and accounting offered at LSE, reflecting the interdisciplinary nature of the programme.
As optional course availability may vary, full details can be found in the programme regulations.
Your second year involves six compulsory half unit courses.
In your third year, you'll undertake an industry placement in a professional setting, allowing you to apply your learning in practice and gain valuable experience in the actuarial, financial, or related sectors.
Previous students from the Department of Statistics have completed placements with a range of leading organisations, including Deloitte, Jefferies, Lazard, Glencore, Opus, Natixis and SMBC, with salaries above £30,000.
While you're responsible for securing your own placement, you'll receive dedicated support from the department and LSE Careers.
This includes guidance on CVs, applications, and interviews, as well as access to employer events and advertised opportunities.
Our Placements Coordinator will work closely with you throughout the process to help you identify and secure a suitable placement.
During the placement year, you'll be required to complete a compulsory, non-credit-bearing course, which supports reflection on your learning and professional development.
Please note that while extensive support is available, all placement offers are made at the discretion of employers and cannot be guaranteed.
If you're unable to secure a suitable placement by the end of the Spring Term in your second year, you'll be transferred to the three-year BSc Actuarial Science programme.
Placement year
The Home undergraduate fee for a placement year is set by the UK Office for Students - currently a maximum of 20 per cent of the full-time fee in the year the student starts their programme.
For home students starting the BSc Actuarial Science (with a Placement Year) in 2026/27, the provisional fee for the placement year is £1,905.
This amount may increase in line with the Home undergraduate fee set by the OfS.
This is the 2026/27 tuition fee for international students.
The overseas undergraduate fee for a placement year is 20 per cent of the full-time programme fee in the year the student starts the programme.
For overseas students starting in 2026/27, the fee for the placement year is £6,140.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/undergraduate/bsc-data-science:
Our BSc Data Science brings together the study of data science, machine learning, statistics and mathematics – with an emphasis on their real-world applications and impact on economics and society.
The programme has a strong mathematical focus.
You’ll learn about the properties of data, how to extract insights from data, and how to report the results.
As you progress, you’ll build your understanding of classical and modern data analytics techniques, modelling, statistical machine learning, and AI.
You’ll learn how to carry out typical workflows in data analytics, make inferences based on statistical data and become proficient in computer programming for data science.
Data scientists are in high demand in the private and public sectors.
By the time you graduate, you’ll have all the practical skills and theoretical knowledge to progress to a career in areas such as banking, financial services and healthcare.
In your first year, you’ll take four compulsory courses and LSE100.
Your second year involves a mix of core and optional courses.
In your final year, you’ll also take a mix of core and optional courses.
Format and contact hours: you’ll usually attend a mix of lectures and related classes, seminars or workshops totalling 10 to 15 hours per week.
Independent study: you’ll need to complete independent study outside your classes.
You’ll need to manage much of this work independently, which may include reading, note-taking and research.
LSE teaching: LSE is internationally recognised for teaching and research and our academics have wide-ranging expertise.
Courses may be taught by our faculty staff, guest teachers and visiting members of staff, LSE teaching fellows and graduate teaching assistants, who can be doctoral research students.
Most courses are assessed by a three-hour exam in June.
Your degree award will be based on assessment over all three years, with particular emphasis on your work in the second and third years.
You’ll receive feedback on summative coursework as part of the assessment for individual courses (except on final submitted dissertations).
Feedback is normally provided before the examination period.
Graduates from the programme will be prepared for further study, or for professional and managerial careers, particularly in areas requiring the application of quantitative skills.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/undergraduate/bsc-econometrics-and-mathematical-economics:
Econometrics uses statistical and mathematical methods and theoretical models to help us understand real-world economic issues and predict future trends.
In industry and government, there is a real need for graduates who understand econometrics.
So, this BSc Econometrics and Mathematical Economics equips you with in-demand skills.
The programme provides a solid grounding in micro and macro economics and econometrics.
You’ll learn how empirical methods are used to test economic theories and gain hands-on experience in statistical programming.
Throughout your studies, you’ll be taught by academics who are advising government, business and the finance sector on policy.
So, your learning will be informed by real-world thinking and applications.
Our department is regularly ranked number one outside the US for published research in economics and econometrics.
Please note: students are rarely admitted to the programme in the first year, as this is too early to commit to a research career in economics.
A limited number of students transfer to this programme from other LSE programmes in the third year to complete the dissertation in quantitative economics.
Accredited by the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) for the purpose of exemption from all 4 certificate level CIMA modules through the Accredited degree accelerated route.
Graduates from this programme will be exempt from the following certificate level CIMA modules :
If you'd like to gain further insight into what economists study, we suggest looking at one or more of the following popular books or others like them:
Some of these books were launched at LSE.
Listen to podcasts of these launches (and many other talks) .
It's also a very good idea to have a look at one or more economics textbooks, to have a clear idea of what the serious university study of the subject involves, which will differ from these popular presentations.
Although the texts and editions listed below are currently recommended for the first year, other editions of these books and other university-level textbooks are also entirely valid for this first investigation.
A*AA with an A* in Mathematics
Please also see subject combinations regarding Further Mathematics requirements.
39 points overall.
766 in higher level subjects, with 7 in Mathematics.
Applicants are required to take the Test of Mathematics for University Admission (TMUA) .
The test is mandatory.
You’ll have the chance to apply for a year abroad with one of our global exchange partners.
Your first year provides a foundation in economics.
You’ll learn the necessary quantitative skills before moving on to introductory courses in microeconomics, macroeconomics and econometrics.
You can choose one option from a variety of courses offered by other departments (either one whole unit or two half units).
Additionally, you'll ​also take LSE100.
Students can opt to take Mathematical Methods in place of Methods in Calculus and Linear Algebra and the Winter Term outside option.
The second year builds on earlier courses in microeconomics, macroeconomics and econometrics.
You’ll develop a firm grasp of core analytical methods and apply them to a range of problems.
During the year, you can choose one option from another department (a full unit or two half units).
In your third year, you can specialise according to your interests.
You’ll choose one course from three options and take two further economics options.
Then, you’ll complete a thesis in quantitative economics on your chosen research topic.
LSE is home to one of the top economics departments in the world, with expertise across the full spectrum of mainstream economics.
Our academics and researchers are working at the frontiers of developments in the field and our research has a global impact.
Over the past 50 years, this research has influenced almost every major intellectual development within the discipline.
As a department, our academics advise governments and central banks, aid agencies, and private-sector organisations in the UK, Europe and around the world.
Our research insights help tackle global challenges such as economic instability, inequality and climate change, often catalysing profound policy shifts.
Past and present faculty members have shaped economic policy at a national and international level and our teaching staff have included a former Bank of England governor and Chief Economist to the World Bank.
We count nine Nobel Prize winners among our current and former staff and students.
Within the department, we offer a range of undergraduate and postgraduate degrees, as well as doctoral training in economics.
Our alumni find high-earning and rewarding roles in government, international institutions, business and finance.
The intake below reflects this.
Contact hours: you’ll have around 12 hours of lectures and classes each week.
Independent study: you’ll need to complete around six hours of independent study per course each week.
Exact hours vary depending on the course.
LSE teaching: you’ll learn in classes with around 20 students.
Academic staff deliver most lectures while classes are generally taught by graduate teaching assistants, including many experienced PhD students.
Class teachers mark formative coursework and provide feedback within two weeks – provided the work is submitted on time.
Summative assessment is largely through examinations in May to June each year (and occasionally in the January assessment period).
This is complemented by other forms of assessment, such as essays, policy reports, research projects and class participation.
Our new curriculum has allowed us to introduce a broader range of assessment methods – so you can develop and be assessed on a wider variety of skills.
You'll also receive feedback on any summative coursework you're required to submit as part of the assessment for individual courses (except on the final version of submitted dissertations).
You'll normally receive this feedback before the examination period.
Get details of the current formative coursework and summative assessment for each course in the relevant course guide .
This degree provides an excellent preparation for a range of careers, but we particularly welcome students who want to learn about economics, rather than simply prepare themselves for a prosperous future.
Almost all students on the BSc Econometrics and Mathematical Economics programme progress to do a graduate degree (often a PhD) and have careers in research and/or teaching in academia, central banks around the world, think tanks or government.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/undergraduate/bsc-economic-history:
Why are some countries rich and others poor?
What forces shape inequality?
What can the past teach us about current and future economic crises?
This BSc Economic History degree looks at the historical development of economies in social, political and cultural contexts.
Drawing on both quantitative and qualitative perspectives, you’ll apply concepts and theories from across the social sciences to explore real-world issues.
Our department is world-leading for research and teaching in economic history – and one of only a few of its kind in the world.
We offer a huge range of economic history courses covering virtually every global region and historical period.
You can also study thematic courses covering financial and monetary history, the history of technology and innovation, slavery, historical economic geography and more.
As you progress, you’ll acquire wide-ranging, transferable skills that are sought-after by employers.
Our graduates progress to highly paid and rewarding careers in the City, consulting, the Civil Service, government, NGOs and the charity sector, teaching and academia.
AAA, including Economics or History
AAB, including Economics or History
766 in higher level subjects, including Economics or History
666 in higher level subjects, including Economics or History
You’ll take two introductory courses in economic history and one option from another department.
Additionally, you’ll take introductory courses in macro and micro economics and LSE100.
In the second year, you’ll take one compulsory economic history course and choose three other courses.
This will include at least two economic history courses and either one additional economic history course or an option from another department.
The final year involves three courses in economic history and a 10,000-word research project.
LSE is home to one of the largest specialist economic history departments in the world, with 25 permanent teaching staff, as well as visiting academics and researchers.
We use social science concepts and theories as a starting point to study the evolution of real economies in their social, political and cultural contexts.
Collectively, our academics have a huge breadth and depth of knowledge, ranging from the Medieval period to the current day, and covering every world economy, from the Americas to Asia, Africa and Europe.
The department’s research interests range from social well-being to technology and finance, and from the history of economic ideas to global trade patterns.
Our research has informed decision-making in numerous government departments, NGOs, and international bodies such as the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
Drawing on their research strengths, our academics hold editorial and board membership roles on many world-renowned journals (such as Cliometrica and the Economic History Review) and regularly share their insights in the national and international media.
Currently, the department offers three undergraduate degree programmes and a range of postgraduate degrees and research opportunities.
Many of our graduates secure high-profile teaching and research roles in the UK and internationally.
Format and contact hours: you’ll have eight to 10 hours of timetabled classes per week.
As well as lectures, you’ll have weekly classes in small groups, led by a graduate teaching assistant.
Independent study: you’ll be expected to complete independent study outside your classes so you’ll need to manage your study time effectively.
Generally, you’ll submit four essays for each course, as well as giving class presentations.
The 10,000-word research project counts as one of your four courses in the third year.
You’ll receive feedback on any summative coursework submitted for individual course assessments (except for final submitted dissertations).
Generally, feedback is given before the examination period.
Please note that assessment on individual courses can change from year to year.
Economic history combines the skills of the economist, the statistician and the sociologist, as well as those of the historian, therefore graduates leave with a portfolio of highly transferable skills that can be applied across a wide variety of employment sectors.
Our graduates can be found in senior positions throughout many professions, in the City, financial and market consultancy, NGOs and the charity sector, the civil service, sales and marketing, teaching, government and academia.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/undergraduate/bsc-economic-history-and-geography:
You’ll examine the impact of economic change on geography, both in today’s world and in the past, and how different processes affect the economic and social geography of modern societies.
We look at questions such as:
As you progress, you’ll complete a series of research projects based on primary historical sources.
These culminate with a year-long dissertation in your third year where you undertake an original piece of research in historical economic geography.
When you graduate, you’ll have a range of highly transferable skills that will set you up for a career in the City, financial markets, NGOs and the charity sector, the Civil Service, teaching, government or academia.
ABB, including Economics or History
666 in higher level subjects.
36 points overall.
665 in higher level subjects.
Your time will be divided equally between economic history and geography.
You’ll take four compulsory courses (on geography, economic history, and economics) plus LSE100.
Your second year involves compulsory courses in geography and economic history as well as further options from each subject.
In your final year, you’ll take two compulsory, half-unit geography courses, a historical economic geography course and further geography options.
You’ll also complete a dissertation.
Hours vary according to the course.
Alongside lectures, you’ll attend weekly classes in small groups, led by a graduate teaching assistant.
This varies depending on the course and you’ll need to manage your study time effectively.
Independent study generally involves tasks such as reading, note-taking and research.
You’ll usually write up to four essays for each economic history course, as well as giving class presentations.
The compulsory second-year course includes a 3,000-word project as part of the final assessment – which is worth 30 per cent of the final mark.
Most other economic history courses are assessed through three-hour examinations – although some also include summative essays and presentations.
You’ll receive feedback on any summative coursework submitted as part of the assessment for individual courses (except on final submitted dissertations).
Details of the current formative coursework and summative assessment for each course are given in the relevant course guide .

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/undergraduate/bsc-economics:
How can we tackle widening economic inequalities?
Why does a gender pay gap persist?
How can deal with climate change?
These are just some of the questions we’ll explore on this wide-ranging programme.
You’ll gain a solid grounding in analytical techniques, statistical theory and quantitative methods and apply your learning to complex real-world problems.
Throughout, you’ll take an open-minded and scientific approach to problems, using formal modelling of economic relationships and testing hypotheses against data.
After a core foundation in microeconomics, macroeconomics and econometrics, you can select from specialist economics courses and external options from outside the department.
You’ll learn how to develop and communicate complex arguments effectively – equipping you with invaluable skills for your future career.
LSE has one of the largest economics departments in the world and our academics lead global thinking and research in the field.
Our department is regularly ranked number one (outside the USA) for published research in economics and econometrics.
See subject combinations regarding Further Mathematics requirements.
You’ll gain a firm foundation in economics and develop essential quantitative skills before moving on to introductory courses in microeconomics, macroeconomics and econometrics.
Then, you’ll choose one option from a broad range of courses offered outside the department, along with LSE100.
Students can opt to take Mathematic Methods in place of Methods in Calculus and Linear Algebra and the Winter Term outside option.
Your second year builds on the earlier courses in microeconomics, macroeconomics and econometrics.
You’ll develop a firm grasp of core analytical methods and apply these to a range of problems.
You can also choose one option from another department (a whole unit or two half units).
In the final year, you can choose specialist options in all the main fields of economic enquiry, depending on your interests.
This can include one course from outside the department.
Format and contact hours: you’ll have around 12 hours of lectures and classes each week.
We also recommend six hours of independent study per week for each course.
You’ll have regular classes in groups of around 20 students.
Lectures are given by academic staff while most classes are taught by graduate teaching assistants, who include many experienced PhD students.
Over the past two decades many of our graduates have chosen to pursue careers in the financial sector, which can include positions involving economics research as well as those in banking or hedge funds.
Increasingly, many have also preferred to take up positions as economic or management consultants, to join central banks, their home country’s government economic service or international organisations.
Some graduates from the programme pursue quite different careers, whether as professional accountants and auditors, engaging in entrepreneurial activity, marketing or law, or in entirely different fields.
A significant number choose to go on to graduate study, not just in economics but also in finance, management, development, economic history and other fields.
Throughout their time at LSE we work to prepare our students who are aiming in this direction to understand the rewards of engaging in economics research and the benefits of interacting with faculty and visitors who are leading economists.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/fee-status-classification:
Fee status classification
The amount of tuition fees you will need to pay, and any financial support you are eligible for, will depend on whether you are classified as a Home or Overseas student.
LSE assesses your fee status using The Education (Fees and Awards) (England) Regulations 2017 from the UK government’s Department of Education.
We assess your fee status using the information and facts that you provide at the time of your initial application to the School.
We may need to ask for additional information in order to help us assess your fee status.
The onus is on individual students to satisfy the institution that they meet the criteria to be classified as Home status for the purpose of fees.
Each programme has a separate home and overseas target.
Consequently we are required to establish fee status prior to making a decision on your application.
If your fee status changes after you have received an offer on your application, this will not change the decision on your application.
We have summarised below the most common categories of people who will pay Home fees for courses starting in autumn 2025.
These are only the very basic details, and there are more categories.
For more detailed information, including the full details of the 3-year residence requirement, please refer to the UKCISA guide ' England: fee status for Higher Education .'
Please submit your fully completed Fee Classification Questionnaire with all relevant accompanying documentation by 31 October of the year that you are intending to register for.
Home fee status
If you have Home (UK) fee status, you will be charged fees based on the UK government’s fee level for the year.
If you are applying for an undergraduate course, you may also be able to apply for a student loan to help you pay your fees.
You are likely to have Home (UK) status if:
1) You are a British or Irish national citizen or have a permanent right to live in the UK and you have lived for three full years immediately before the first day of your course in any of the following places:
2) You have been granted refugee status or have humanitarian protection in the UK, or certain other forms of humanitarian leave such as through the Ukraine schemes.
3) You are the child, spouse or civil partner of a person who qualifies through points (1) or (2).
4) You have been living legally in the UK for an extended period (usually half your life).
5) You are the child of a Turkish worker, and you and your parent have been living in the UK since before 31 December 2020.
You have a permanent right to live in the UK if you hold any of the following:
In most cases, you will not be eligible for Home (UK) fees if the main purpose of your residency in the relevant area has been to receive full-time education (for example, because you are studying away from home at a boarding school).
You may also qualify for Home (UK) fee status if you would have met one of these criteria but:
Fee status for EU, EEA and Swiss nationals and British nationals living in the EU
Since 1 August 2021, new criteria apply to students who would have previously been eligible for Home (UK) fee status due to the UK’s membership of the European Union.
UK and Irish nationals living in the EU, EEA or Switzerland
If you start your course on or after 1 August 2021, you will usually be eligible for Home (UK) fees providing:
These rules apply for students who begin studying before 1 January 2028.
EU, EEA and Swiss citizens with pre-settled or settled status
If you are an EU national, you will usually be eligible for Home fees if you hold valid pre-settled or settled status under the UK’s EU, EEA or Swiss settlement schemes.
You will need to have lived in the UK, EU, EEA, Gibraltar or Switzerland for three full years immediately before the start of your course.
If you are a non-EU EEA or Swiss national, or are the child or spouse of an EU national, and you hold valid pre-settled or settled status you may also be eligible for Home fees (depending on your residency).
If you hold pre-settled or settled status in the Isle of Man or Channel Islands you may also be eligible for Home fees.
If you do not hold valid pre-settled or settled status in the UK, Isle of Man or Channel Islands you are likely to be eligible for Overseas fees.
Asylum seekers
If you have claimed asylum in the UK but have not received an outcome to your application, you are not eligible for Home (UK) fees under the regulations set out by the UK Government.
Asylum seekers would not ordinarily qualify for the Home UK fee status.
However, LSE has two financial awards available for asylum seekers to the UK, the Access to Education Scholarships .
Residency requirements to be eligible for Home (UK) fees must be met before the start of your course, and therefore your status will not usually change once you have enrolled.
The UK Government has introduced changes starting with the 2024/25 academic year that will allow you to become eligible for Home (UK) status if your UK immigration status changes partway through your course.
You will still need to have met any relevant residency requirements when you first started.
If you become a British citizen, an Irish citizen, or are granted any form of 'settled status' or Indefinite Leave to Remain, you will be eligible for Home (UK) status starting in the next academic year if you also meet the residency requirements.
This will also happen if you are granted refugee status, humanitarian protection, or leave under a Ukraine scheme, regardless of your previous residency.
You may also become eligible if your parent, guardian, spouse, or civil partner changes their status in a similar way.
Once you become a registered student your fee status can only be reclassified in exceptional circumstances (either a change in the law or a change to the status of the student).
Requests for reclassification by registered students must be submitted before 31 October in the year you first register.
If you request us to review your fee status after this deadline, any decision to change your classification will not apply until the start of the next academic year (only available for 2-year programmes or longer).
If you believe that you have been incorrectly classified, please follow the guidance below on requesting an assessment and submit documents as a registered student.
Please note that we are unable to consider fee status requests after 31 October .
If after reading all the information and consulting the UKCISA website you believe that the School should reconsider your fee status please complete our fee classification questionnaire [PDF] and send it with supporting documentation to the appropriate address below:
Fee Assessments (Postgraduate)
Email: ard.gao.fcq.team@lse.ac.uk
Fee Assessments (Undergraduate) Email: Ard.Ug.Fee.Enquiries@lse.ac.uk
Please note these emails are for current students only.
Applicants or offer holders should contact the relevant admissions team directly.
International students requiring further information on visas and immigration can contact the Student Advice and Engagement Team .

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/afghanistan:
In 2023, LSE welcomed one student from Afghanistan, at graduate level.
If you would like to receive further information about studying at LSE, please register your interest .
LSE is an international community, with over 140 nationalities represented amongst its student body.
Student societies and activities Your time at LSE is not just about studying.
There are plenty of ways to get involved in extracurricular activities .
From joining one of over 200 societies, or starting your own society, to volunteering for a local charity, or attending a public lecture by a world-leading figure, there is a lot to choose from.
The campus LSE is based on one campus in the centre of London.
London is a great city for students, with plenty of sights, experiences, and opportunities to explore .
Contrary to popular belief, London doesn't have to be super expensive: hear about London on a budget .
For more information about living in London, please request our London Life: Tips for students living in the city e-book .
Your time at LSE is not just about studying.
LSESU Afghan Society The LSESU Afghan Society aims to provide students with an enriched experience in Afghan culture and a deeper understanding of the political implications occurring in Afghanistan contemporarily.
It is open to all students across the university who are interested in experiencing a unique culture, food, music and to participate in thorough debating platforms about the current socio-political climate in the Middle East.
The LSESU Afghan Society aims to provide students with an enriched experience in Afghan culture and a deeper understanding of the political implications occurring in Afghanistan contemporarily.
Support during your studies There is a wide range of support services and facilities available.
You can benefit from academic guidance, language support and personal and professional development .
We also provide careers support , pastoral care, counselling and a Disability and Wellbeing service .
We encourage you to make the most of these resources to ensure you have the best possible experience during your time at the School.
Accommodation LSE offers a variety of styles of accommodation with a mix of students; UK and international, men and women.
Or if you're thinking of living in privately rented property, we can also help with finding a place.
Visas and immigration If you think you might need a visa to study at LSE, please check our our visa advice information .
There is a wide range of support services and facilities available.
LSE offers a variety of styles of accommodation with a mix of students; UK and international, men and women.
If you think you might need a visa to study at LSE, please check our our visa advice information .
Find out what our graduates have gone on to do six months and three years after they graduate on LSE Careers .
You can search by degree and department and see information on salaries, industries and more.
Career information by country LSE has a diverse student body and our graduates work across the globe.
According to the most recent graduate destination data, over half of all recent graduates work in the UK, while the rest are spread out across the globe.
Understanding the jobs market and recruitment methods used in the country you want to work in is important for a successful job search.
Have a look at LSE Careers' country profiles for more information about opportunities and employers in your home country or another country.
Support for your career Whether you have a clear idea of what you want to do after your studies or haven’t started thinking about it yet, LSE Careers can help.
We cater our services to match the LSE student makeup including undergraduates and graduates, UK and international students, and people with previous job experience or looking to change careers.
Regardless of where you want to work, we can support you.
We also have bespoke services for students with disabilities and PhD students, including dedicated careers consultants.
Our services, events, and resources cover finding part-time work; career planning and deciding on a career; enhancing employability skills; gaining work experience; volunteering; starting a business; researching employers, sectors and roles; strengthening CVs, cover letters, and applications; improving interview and assessment centre technique and more.
Once registered on campus you can book careers events, including fairs and seminars, and one-to-one appointments to discuss career options and review your applications.
LSE has a diverse student body and our graduates work across the globe.
Whether you have a clear idea of what you want to do after your studies or haven’t started thinking about it yet, LSE Careers can help.
We want to recruit students with the very best academic merit, potential and motivation, regardless of their background.
We review each application carefully, taking into account all of the information provided on your UCAS application form, including: academic achievement (including predicted and achieved grades) subject combinations personal statement teacher’s reference educational circumstances In terms of academic achievement, our entry requirements vary by programme, and are listed on the individual undergraduate degree programme webpages .
Our entry requirements and usual standard offers for each programme for students applying with GCE A levels and the International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme (IB) are listed on these pages.
We also consider applications from students with a range of other UK qualifications including BTECs, Foundation Courses and Access to HE Diplomas ( see further information on these qualifications ) as well as a wide range of international qualifications.
Below you will find the equivalency of the qualification/s from your country to GCE A levels.
If your qualification is not listed, please get in touch with Undergraduate Admissions .
For more information on the application process please see How to apply .
You may need to provide evidence of your English language proficiency at some point, but not when you first submit your application.
Do you still have questions?
The knowledge base is the quickest way to receive answers to any questions you may have.
If your question is not answered by reference to the knowledge base, you can submit an enquiry to Undergraduate Admissions via the knowledge base.
Competition for places Competition for places at the School is high.
This means that even if you are predicted or if you achieve the grades that meet our usual standard offer, this will not guarantee you an offer of admission.
Usual standard offers are intended only as a guide, and in some cases applicants will be asked for grades which differ from this.
We review each application carefully, taking into account all of the information provided on your UCAS application form, including:
In terms of academic achievement, our entry requirements vary by programme, and are listed on the individual undergraduate degree programme webpages .
Afghanistan baccalauria The baccalauria is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Please view information on other accepted international qualifications for alternative options.
The baccalauria is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
We review each application carefully, taking into account all of the information provided on your application form, including: academic achievement (including predicted and achieved grades) statement of academic purpose two references CV In terms of academic achievement, our entry requirements vary by programme, and are listed on the individual graduate degree programme webpages .
See further information on supporting documents You may need to provide evidence of your English language proficiency at some point, but not when you first submit your application.
We accept a wide range of international qualifications.
Below you will find our general minimum requirements for students from your country.
If your qualification or country is not listed, please get in touch with Graduate Admissions .
Please note that requirements listed on these pages are general and some programmes have specific requirements in terms of degree result required and subject background.
Many of our quantitative programmes also require that a GRE or GMAT score is submitted.
Please see the individual graduate degree programme webpages for specific information.
If your question is not answered by reference to the knowledge base, you can submit an enquiry to Graduate Admissions via the knowledge base.
We review each application carefully, taking into account all of the information provided on your application form, including:
In terms of academic achievement, our entry requirements vary by programme, and are listed on the individual graduate degree programme webpages .
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Afghanistan Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, we would normally require a master's degree with 82 per cent or a GPA of 3.5/4 from a recognised public or private university.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a UK taught master’s degree with an overall merit (at least 65 per cent) or its non-UK equivalent and a strong merit or its equivalent in the master’s dissertation in a subject relevant to the proposed research.
To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, we would normally require a master's degree with 82 per cent or a GPA of 3.5/4 from a recognised public or private university.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a UK taught master’s degree with an overall merit (at least 65 per cent) or its non-UK equivalent and a strong merit or its equivalent in the master’s dissertation in a subject relevant to the proposed research.
Every student is charged a fee for their programme.
For undergraduate students, there is a fee for each year of their programme.
Fees cover registration, teaching, classes and individual supervision, first entry to examinations, the use of the Library and membership of the Students' Union.
They also normally cover teaching and the use of student common rooms at other colleges of the University of London, if your programme has intercollegiate arrangements.
Fees do not cover living costs or travel or fieldwork.
Fees are fixed each spring for the following session only, and will be published in the Table of Fees .
All queries regarding your fees and fee payments are dealt with by the Fees Office .
Tuition fee amounts For undergraduate students, the individual tuition fee amount is available on the individual undergraduate degree programme webpages .
For graduate students, tuition fee amounts are listed on the individual graduate degree programme webpages .
Fee status In some cases the amount of tuition fees you will need to pay, and any financial support you are eligible for, will depend on whether you are classified as a home or overseas student, otherwise known as your fee status.
Scholarships, bursaries, loans and other funding opportunities The School recognises that the cost of living in London may be higher than in your home town or country.
LSE provides generous financial support to UK and overseas undergraduate and graduate students.
Some support is also available from external organisations including the UK government and some overseas governments.
funding opportunities for undergraduate students funding opportunities for graduate students
For undergraduate students, the individual tuition fee amount is available on the individual undergraduate degree programme webpages .
In some cases the amount of tuition fees you will need to pay, and any financial support you are eligible for, will depend on whether you are classified as a home or overseas student, otherwise known as your fee status.
The School recognises that the cost of living in London may be higher than in your home town or country.
Experience LSE from home Our videos, student blogs, vlogs and webinars will help you gain an insight into what it's like to study with us from the comfort of your own home.
Undergraduate Virtual Open Day Experience our Undergraduate Virtual Open Day wherever you are in the world.
Graduate Virtual Open Day Experience our Graduate Virtual Open Day wherever you are in the world.
Visit LSE Come on a guided campus tour, attend an undergraduate open day, go on a self-guided tour or request an appointment with a member of the Student Recruitment and Study Abroad team.
Find out about opportunities to visit LSE .
LSE visits you Student Recruitment and Study Abroad travels throughout the UK and around the world to meet with prospective students.
We go to schools, attend education fairs and also hold Destination LSE events: pre-departure events for offer holders.
Find details on our upcoming visits .
Our videos, student blogs, vlogs and webinars will help you gain an insight into what it's like to study with us from the comfort of your own home.
Experience our Undergraduate Virtual Open Day wherever you are in the world.
Experience our Graduate Virtual Open Day wherever you are in the world.
Come on a guided campus tour, attend an undergraduate open day, go on a self-guided tour or request an appointment with a member of the Student Recruitment and Study Abroad team.
Student Recruitment and Study Abroad travels throughout the UK and around the world to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/albania:
In 2023, LSE welcomed eight students from Albania, two at undergraduate level and six at graduate level.
Albanian Society The Albanian Society aims to promote Albanian culture, tradition and values and to raise awareness on issues affecting Albanians and the Balkan region through public lectures, joint events, and entertainment evenings.
The Albanian Society aims to promote Albanian culture, tradition and values and to raise awareness on issues affecting Albanians and the Balkan region through public lectures, joint events, and entertainment evenings.
Albania school-leaving qualification The school leaving qualification from Albania is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The school leaving qualification from Albania is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Albania Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require, under the pre-2007 system, the kandidat i shkencave, the master i nivelit te pare or the master i nivelit te dyte with a minimum overall mark of 8 (on a scale of 1-10).
Where an undergraduate programme has been started post-2007, we can accept the diplome e nivelit te pare with an overall mark of 8 or above.
Grading systems remain as above.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master shkencave (master of science) or the kandidat i shkencave when awarded after 2007 and expect an overall mark of 8/10.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require, under the pre-2007 system, the kandidat i shkencave, the master i nivelit te pare or the master i nivelit te dyte with a minimum overall mark of 8 (on a scale of 1-10).
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master shkencave (master of science) or the kandidat i shkencave when awarded after 2007 and expect an overall mark of 8/10.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/algeria:
In 2023, LSE welcomed three student from Algeria, one at undgraduate level and two at graduate level.
Middle East and North Africa (MENA) LSESU MENA Society is for all those interested in the region.
We run events such as talks, panels, fundraisers and discussion rounds on political, cultural and business-related issues in the region.
African Caribbean Society The African Caribbean Society : embracing our history, celebrating our culture and building our futures.
LSESU MENA Society is for all those interested in the region.
The African Caribbean Society : embracing our history, celebrating our culture and building our futures.
Algeria baccalauréat de l’enseignement secondaire The baccalauréat de l’enseignement secondaire is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The baccalauréat de l’enseignement secondaire is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Algeria Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a licence, diplôme d’études supérieures, diplôme de (subject area) or diplôme d’ingénieur / diplôme d’architecte d’état, with a minimum overall mark of 14/20.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a magister and expect a mark of 14/20.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a licence, diplôme d’études supérieures, diplôme de (subject area) or diplôme d’ingénieur / diplôme d’architecte d’état, with a minimum overall mark of 14/20.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a magister and expect a mark of 14/20.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/angola:
Angola high school certificate The high school certificate from Angola is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The high school certificate from Angola is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Angola Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the mestre with an overall mark of 14/20.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a doutorado and expect an overall mark of 14/20.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the mestre with an overall mark of 14/20.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a doutorado and expect an overall mark of 14/20.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/anguilla:
Equivalency of the Caribbean Advanced Proficiency Examination (CAPE) with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in the Caribbean Advanced Proficiency Examination (CAPE) A*AA, AAA Obtain three subjects at two-unit level with grade 1 in all six units.
AAB Obtain three subjects at two-unit level with at least grade 1 in five units and grade 2 in one unit.
Mathematics A*/A Obtain Pure Mathematics at two-unit level with grade 1 in both units.
Applied Mathematics is welcome, alongside Pure Mathematics for any course that accepts Mathematics, Further Mathematics and one other subject at A Level.
A*AA, AAA
Obtain three subjects at two-unit level with grade 1 in all six units.
Obtain three subjects at two-unit level with at least grade 1 in five units and grade 2 in one unit.
Mathematics A*/A
Obtain Pure Mathematics at two-unit level with grade 1 in both units.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Anguilla (Caribbean Entry) Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, we would normally require a good upper second class (2:1) bachelor's degree or higher from the University of Technology, the University of the West Indies (UWI), or from another accredited tertiary institution which offers accepted qualifications.
We require a 2:1, a GPA of 3.3/4.3 or B+ average.
Where only a 4.0 GPA scale is used, we require 3.5/4.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s degree with merit from UWI or from another accredited tertiary institution which offers accepted qualifications.
We expect a Merit, B+ or 3.5/4.
To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, we would normally require a good upper second class (2:1) bachelor's degree or higher from the University of Technology, the University of the West Indies (UWI), or from another accredited tertiary institution which offers accepted qualifications.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s degree with merit from UWI or from another accredited tertiary institution which offers accepted qualifications.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/antigua-and-barbuda:
Latin American Society The aim of the Latin American Society is to create and maintain a lively and diverse network of people and institutions interested in Latin America.
We seek to promote a more active interaction between the LSE and the region.
The aim of the Latin American Society is to create and maintain a lively and diverse network of people and institutions interested in Latin America.
Undergraduate entry requirements for applicants from Antigua and Barbuda Please view information on accepted international qualifications .
Please view information on accepted international qualifications .
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Antigua and Barbuda Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, we would normally require a good upper second class (2:1) bachelor's degree or higher from the University of Technology, the University of the West Indies (UWI), or from another accredited tertiary institution which offers accepted qualifications.
We require a 2:1, a GPA of 3.3/4.3 or 3.3/4 or B average.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/argentina:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 15 students from Argentina, one at undergraduate level and 14 at graduate level.
Argentina Society The LSESU Argentina Society aims to create a network of people interested in Argentina.
Our objective is to share the country's culture and its socio-economic concerns throughout the LSE Community.
The LSESU Argentina Society aims to create a network of people interested in Argentina.
Argentina titulo de bachiller The titulo de bachiller is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The titulo de bachiller is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Argentina Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a grado/título de licenciado/título profesional (awarded after four years) from a highly regarded institution, with a minimum overall mark of 7.5/10 (distinguido/very good).
From all other institutions we would normally require an overall mark of 9/10.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first-class equivalent), we would normally require the Grado/Título de Licenciado / Título Profesional (awarded after four years) with a minimum overall mark of 9.1/10 (Sobresaliente / Outstanding).
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require the Abogado/Abogada degree in Law completed in not more than six years with an overall grade of 8/10 from a well regarded institution or 8.5/10.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a maestria/magister from a highly regarded institution with an overall minimum grade of 8/10.
From all other institutions we would normally require an overall minimum mark of 9/10.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a grado/título de licenciado/título profesional (awarded after four years) from a highly regarded institution, with a minimum overall mark of 7.5/10 (distinguido/very good).
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a maestria/magister from a highly regarded institution with an overall minimum grade of 8/10.
LSE Events in Argentina LSE visits Argentina to meet with prospective students.
In 2018 LSE held an information session in Buenos Aires.
Sign up to our mailing list to hear about future events near you.
LSE visits Argentina to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/armenia:
In 2023, LSE welcomed four students from Armenia, one at undergraduate level and three at graduate level.
Armenian Society The Armenian Society aims to provide knowledge about Armenia and the wider region, its culture, history, politics and economics as well as engage students of Armenian background.
The Armenian Society aims to provide knowledge about Armenia and the wider region, its culture, history, politics and economics as well as engage students of Armenian background.
Armenia certificate of completed secondary education (mijnakarg yndhanur krtoutian attestat) The certificate of completed secondary education (mijnakarg yndhanur krtoutian attestat) is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The certificate of completed secondary education (mijnakarg yndhanur krtoutian attestat) is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Armenia Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, for those graduating after 2005 we would normally require the bakalavri astichan with at least 80 per cent overall or a GPA of 3.5 or above.
We also accept the pre-2005 Magistros.
We would normally require at least 80 per cent overall or a GPA of 3.5 or above.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require the diplom magistrosi astichan (master’s degree) when awarded after 2005 and expect an overall mark of 80 per cent.
To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, for those graduating after 2005 we would normally require the bakalavri astichan with at least 80 per cent overall or a GPA of 3.5 or above.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require the diplom magistrosi astichan (master’s degree) when awarded after 2005 and expect an overall mark of 80 per cent.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/australia:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 84 students from Australia, 18 at undergraduate level and 66 at graduate level.
Australasian society The Australia and New Zealand society aims to help students from Australia and New Zealand to settle into LSE by organising various events to meet, socialise and have fun with other Antipodeans!
The Australia and New Zealand society aims to help students from Australia and New Zealand to settle into LSE by organising various events to meet, socialise and have fun with other Antipodeans!
Equivalency of Australia school leaving qualifications with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in Australian school leaving qualifications (all states) A*AA, AAA Obtain an ATAR minimum of 98 AAB Obtain an ATAR minimum of 96 Mathematics A*/A Good performance in advanced Year 12 Mathematics courses Our entry requirements vary by programme.
Specific requirements are listed on the individual undergraduate degree programme webpages .
Mathematics requirements for Australian applicants State Required courses Grade requirements Australian Capital Territory ACT senior secondary certificate 2016: Specialist Mathematics including the unit SM: Series & Differential Equations From 2017: Specialist Mathematics (All 4 units) A* Mathematics: 2016: Exact requirements determined by the number and combination of units studied 2017: Grade A in all 4 units A M athematics : 2016: Exact requirements determined by the number and combination of units studied 2017: Two units at grade A and two units at grade B New South Wales Higher School Certificate (HSC) Mathematics Extension 1 and Mathematics Extension 2 A* M athematics : E4 in both courses A M athematics : One grade E4 and one grade E3 Northern Territory Northern Territory Certificate of Education and Training (NTCET) Mathematical Methods and Specialist Mathematics A* M athematics : Grade A in both courses A M athematics : One grade A and one grade B Queensland Queensland Certificate of Education (QCE) Mathematical Methods and Specialist Mathematics A* M athematics : Grade A in both courses A M athematics : One grade A and one grade B South Australia South Australian Certificate of Education (SACE) Mathematical Methods and Specialist Mathematics A* M athematics : Grade A in both courses A M athematics : One grade A and one grade B Tasmania Tasmanian Certificate of Education (TCE) Mathematics Methods 3 and Mathematics Specialised 4 A* M athematics : EA in both courses A M athematics : One at EA and one at HA Victoria Victorian Certificate of Education (VCE) Specialist Mathematics 3 and 4 A* M athematics : Combined study score of 40 A M athematics : Combined study score of 35 Western Australia Western Australian Certificate of Education (WACE) Mathematics Methods and Mathematics Specialist A* M athematics : Grade A in both courses A M athematics : One grade A and one grade B
Obtain an ATAR minimum of 98
Obtain an ATAR minimum of 96
Good performance in advanced Year 12 Mathematics courses
Our entry requirements vary by programme.
Australian Capital Territory ACT senior secondary certificate
2016: Specialist Mathematics including the unit SM: Series & Differential Equations
From 2017: Specialist Mathematics (All 4 units)
A* Mathematics: 2016: Exact requirements determined by the number and combination of units studied 2017: Grade A in all 4 units
A M athematics : 2016: Exact requirements determined by the number and combination of units studied 2017: Two units at grade A and two units at grade B
New South Wales Higher School Certificate (HSC)
Mathematics Extension 1 and Mathematics Extension 2
A* M athematics : E4 in both courses A M athematics : One grade E4 and one grade E3
Northern Territory Northern Territory Certificate of Education and Training (NTCET)
A* M athematics : Grade A in both courses A M athematics : One grade A and one grade B
Queensland Queensland Certificate of Education (QCE)
South Australia South Australian Certificate of Education (SACE)
Tasmania Tasmanian Certificate of Education (TCE)
Mathematics Methods 3 and Mathematics Specialised 4
A* M athematics : EA in both courses A M athematics : One at EA and one at HA
Victoria Victorian Certificate of Education (VCE)
A* M athematics : Combined study score of 40 A M athematics : Combined study score of 35
Western Australia Western Australian Certificate of Education (WACE)
Mathematics Methods and Mathematics Specialist
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Australia Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalence), we would normally require a three-year bachelor’s or four-year bachelor's (honours) degree with a 2:1, or an average grade of distinction, division A, division 1, B+, 70 per cent, or 5.5/7.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first-class equivalence), we would normally require a three-year bachelor’s or four-year bachelor's (honours) degree with a first class, or an average grade of high distinction, A-, 80 per cent, or 6.5/7.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programmes, we would normally require a Bachelor of Laws (alone or in combination with a BA or a BSc degree) or a JD in Law with a 2:1, or Second Class Upper Division/Division 1/Division A, a Distinction, 75 per cent, 5.5/7 or B+.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree with credit (66 per cent).
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalence), we would normally require a three-year bachelor’s or four-year bachelor's (honours) degree with a 2:1, or an average grade of distinction, division A, division 1, B+, 70 per cent, or 5.5/7.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree with credit (66 per cent).
LSE Events in Australia LSE visits Australia to meet with prospective students.
In 2018 LSE held information sessions in Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
Sign up to our mailing list to hear about our future events near you.
LSE visits Australia to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/austria:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 51 students from Austria, 12 at undergraduate level and 39 at graduate level.
Austrian society Austrians at LSE have always played a unique role.
Following the footsteps of Friedrich Hayek, Karl Popper & Co while enjoying LSE's academic rigour, Austrians and Austrophiles can find a home away from home in the Austrian Society .
Austrians at LSE have always played a unique role.
European Baccalaureate We accept the European Baccalaureate for entry to LSE.
Below you will find the A level grade requirement listed, and its equivalent in the European Baccalaureate.
Our entry requirements vary by programme, and you should visit the individual undergraduate degree programme webpage for this information.
A level grade Equivalent in the European Baccalaureate A*AA 88 AAA 85 AAB 80 Mathematics A* 9 in Mathematics (the full option - five periods per week) Mathematics A 8.5 in Mathematics (the full option - five periods per week)
We accept the European Baccalaureate for entry to LSE.
A level grade
Equivalent in the European Baccalaureate
A*AA
88
85
80
Mathematics A*
9 in Mathematics (the full option - five periods per week)
Mathematics A
8.5 in Mathematics (the full option - five periods per week)
Equivalency of Austria r eifeprüfung (matura) from a gymnasium (AHS) with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in Austria r eifeprüfung (matura) from a gymnasium (AHS) A*AA, AAA Four written exams: pass your reifeprüfung mit ausgezeichnetem erfolg, with four subjects (written exams) at 1/sehr gut.
Three written exams: pass your reifeprüfung mit ausgezeichnetem erfolg, with three subjects (written exams) at 1/sehr gut and two subjects (oral exams) at 1/sehr gut.
Note: LSE prefers students to sit four written exams AAB Four written exams: pass your reifeprüfung mit ausgezeichnetem erfolg, with three subjects (written exams) at 1/sehr gut and one subject (written exam) at 2/gut.
Three written exams: pass your reifeprüfung mit ausgezeichnetem erfolg, with two subjects (written exam) at 1/sehr gut, one subject (written exam) at 2/gut and two subjects (oral exams) at 1/sehr gut.
Note: LSE prefers students to sit four written exams Mathematics A*/A Mathematics 1/sehr gut Equivalency of Austria r eife-und-diplomprüfung (from a BHS) with GCE A levels If you are studying the reife-und-diplomprüfung (from a BHS) qualification then the grade requirements are the same as above for the reifeprüfung (matura) from a gymnasium.
If your application is competitive, you may also be requested to complete the Undergraduate Admissions Assessment (UGAA) before a final decision can be made on your application.
Four written exams: pass your reifeprüfung mit ausgezeichnetem erfolg, with four subjects (written exams) at 1/sehr gut.
Note: LSE prefers students to sit four written exams
Four written exams: pass your reifeprüfung mit ausgezeichnetem erfolg, with three subjects (written exams) at 1/sehr gut and one subject (written exam) at 2/gut.
Mathematics 1/sehr gut
If you are studying the reife-und-diplomprüfung (from a BHS) qualification then the grade requirements are the same as above for the reifeprüfung (matura) from a gymnasium.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Austria Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor's degree, diplomstudium or magister with an overall grade of 2.2/5 or gut.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first-class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor's degree, diplomstudium or magister with an overall grade of 1.4/5.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programmes, we would normally require a Mag iur or an LLM/LLMOec with grades of 2.0/5 (gut).
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree or diplomstudium/magister (when completed after five years of study) with an overall grade of 2/5 or gut.
We would normally require a majority of grades at 'mit gutem erfolg bestanden'.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor's degree, diplomstudium or magister with an overall grade of 2.2/5 or gut.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree or diplomstudium/magister (when completed after five years of study) with an overall grade of 2/5 or gut.
LSE visits Austria regularly to meet with prospective students.
LSE visited Vienna in November 2019.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/azerbaijan:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 19 students from Azerbaijan, one at undergraduate level and 18 at graduate level.
Azerbaijan Society The Azerbaijan Society society aims to bring together LSE students who are interested in Azerbaijan and Caucasus region while promoting an awareness of Azerbaijan culture, politics and economy.
The Azerbaijan Society society aims to bring together LSE students who are interested in Azerbaijan and Caucasus region while promoting an awareness of Azerbaijan culture, politics and economy.
Azerbaijan secondary education leaving certificate The secondary school leaving certificate is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The secondary school leaving certificate is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Azerbaijan Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, we would normally require the bakalavr diploma or specialist diploma, with a minimum overall grade of 9/10, 4/5 or 80 per cent (depending on the grading scale used by the institution).
If you completed your degree prior to 2005, we would normally require the specialist diploma or the magister.
Grade requirements are as above.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require the magistr diplomu with an overall mark of 9/10, 4/5 or 80 per cent.
To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, we would normally require the bakalavr diploma or specialist diploma, with a minimum overall grade of 9/10, 4/5 or 80 per cent (depending on the grading scale used by the institution).
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require the magistr diplomu with an overall mark of 9/10, 4/5 or 80 per cent.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/bahamas:
In 2023, LSE welcomed two students from The Bahamas, one at undergraduate level and one at graduate level.
Undergraduate entry requirements for applicants from The Bahamas Please view information on accepted international qualifications .
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from The Bahamas Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, we would normally require a good upper second class (2:1) bachelor's degree or higher from the University of Technology, the University of the West Indies (UWI), or from another accredited tertiary institution which offers accepted qualifications.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/bahrain:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 13 students from Bahrain, eight at undergraduate level and five at graduate level.
Bahrain tawjahiya The tawjahiya is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The tawjahiya is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Bahrain Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a four year bachelor's degree with an overall mark of 85 per cent or a GPA of 3.3/4.0.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first-class equivalent), we would normally require a four year bachelor's degree with an overall mark of 90 per cent or a GPA of 3.7/4.0.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s degree with an overall grade of 85 per cent or a GPA of 3.5/4.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a four year bachelor's degree with an overall mark of 85 per cent or a GPA of 3.3/4.0.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s degree with an overall grade of 85 per cent or a GPA of 3.5/4.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/bangladesh:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 16 students from Bangladesh, six at undergraduate level and 10 at graduate level.
South Asia Society Cutting across borders within South Asia, the South Asia Society intends to serve as a forum to identify, discuss and influence the development discourse in the region, all the while celebrating unity in diversity.
Cutting across borders within South Asia, the South Asia Society intends to serve as a forum to identify, discuss and influence the development discourse in the region, all the while celebrating unity in diversity.
Bangla Society The LSESU Bangla Society celebrates the bangla culture and way of life.
We provide the opportunity to experience a rich and diverse culture and to meet new people, regardless of your nationality.
Students@LSE Blogs Follow Bangladeshi graduate student Nalifa as she blogs about her journey at LSE.
The LSESU Bangla Society celebrates the bangla culture and way of life.
Follow Bangladeshi graduate student Nalifa as she blogs about her journey at LSE.
Bangladesh Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) The Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Bangladesh Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a master's degree when awarded after a three or four year bachelor’s degree, with an average mark of 70 per cent, a GPA of 3.5/4 or grade A-.
Applicants graduating from the Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology (BUET) will be considered with a four year bachelor's degree with an overall GPA of 3.5/4.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree from the Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology (BUET) with an overall GPA of 3.5/4.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a master's degree when awarded after a three or four year bachelor’s degree, with an average mark of 70 per cent, a GPA of 3.5/4 or grade A-.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree from the Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology (BUET) with an overall GPA of 3.5/4.
Rezaur Rahman Scholarship Fund LSE is pleased to announce a new scholarship from the Rezaur Rahman Scholarship Fund for the 2020/21 session.
This scholarship is available for an applicant who has secured an offer of admission to any one year MSc programme with a preference for someone who is resident in Bangladesh or with a close family connection to Bangladesh.
LSE is pleased to announce a new scholarship from the Rezaur Rahman Scholarship Fund for the 2020/21 session.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/barbados:
In 2023, LSE welcomed one student from Barbados, at graduate level.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Barbados (Caribbean Entry) Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, we would normally require a good upper second class (2:1) bachelor's degree or higher from the University of Technology, the University of the West Indies (UWI), or from another accredited tertiary institution which offers accepted qualifications.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/belarus:
In 2023, LSE welcomed two students from Belarus, one at undergraduate level and one at graduate level.
Belarus certificate of secondary education The certificate of secondary education from Belarus is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The certificate of secondary education from Belarus is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Belarus Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require either the specialist diploma or master's degree with a minimum overall mark of 4/5 or 8/10.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require either the specialist diploma or master's degree with a minimum overall mark of 4/5 or 8/10.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/belgium:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 69 students from Belgium, 13 at undergraduate level and 56 at graduate level.
Equivalency of Belgium diploma van secundair onderwijs / certificat d’enseignement secondaire supérieur / abschlusszeugnis der oberstufe des sekundarunterrichts (general strand only) with GCE A level A level grade Equivalent in diploma van secundair onderwijs / certificat d’enseignement secondaire supérieur / abschlusszeugnis der oberstufe des sekundarunterrichts (general strand only) A*AA, AAA An overall average of: 8/10, 80/100, or 16/20 AAB An overall average of: 7.5/10, 75/100, or 15/20 Mathematics A*/A Grade 9.0 or 90 per cent or 18/20 in Mathematics, which should be taken as an elective subject.
An overall average of: 8/10, 80/100, or 16/20
An overall average of: 7.5/10, 75/100, or 15/20
Grade 9.0 or 90 per cent or 18/20 in Mathematics, which should be taken as an elective subject.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Belgium Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (2:1 equivalent), we would normally require a post-Bologna bachelor's degree or the licencie/licentiaat started after 2004 from a university with grades of 70 per cent or avec distinction or 14/20.
For programmes requiring a first-class equivalent, we would normally require a bachelor's degree or the licencie/licentiaat from a university with grades of 80 per cent or 16/20 To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require a master’s degree in law from a university with a minimum overall mark of 14.5/20 or 72.5 per cent.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree or diplôme d'études approfondies and expect an overall grade of 70 per cent/avec distinction or met onderscheiding.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (2:1 equivalent), we would normally require a post-Bologna bachelor's degree or the licencie/licentiaat started after 2004 from a university with grades of 70 per cent or avec distinction or 14/20.
For programmes requiring a first-class equivalent, we would normally require a bachelor's degree or the licencie/licentiaat from a university with grades of 80 per cent or 16/20
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require a master’s degree in law from a university with a minimum overall mark of 14.5/20 or 72.5 per cent.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree or diplôme d'études approfondies and expect an overall grade of 70 per cent/avec distinction or met onderscheiding.
LSE Events in Belgium LSE visits Belgium regularly to meet with prospective students.
In 2018 LSE held an information session in Brussels.
LSE visits Belgium regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/belize:
In 2023, LSE welcomed two students from Belize, at graduate level.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Belize Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, we would normally require a good upper second class (2:1) bachelor's degree or higher from the University of Technology, the University of the West Indies (UWI), or from another accredited tertiary institution which offers accepted qualifications.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/benin:
In 2023, LSE welcomed one student from Benin, at graduate level.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Benin Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a Master, Diplôme d’études Approfondies or Diplôme d’études Supérieures Spécialisées, with an overall mark of 14/20.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require the equivalent of a UK taught master’s degree and expect an overall merit (at least 65 per cent).
For further information on entry requirements please contact the Graduate Admissions Office .
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a Master, Diplôme d’études Approfondies or Diplôme d’études Supérieures Spécialisées, with an overall mark of 14/20.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require the equivalent of a UK taught master’s degree and expect an overall merit (at least 65 per cent).

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/bermuda:
In 2023, LSE welcomed two students from Bermuda, at undergraduate level.
Please see information on accepted international qualifications .
In terms of academic achievement, our entry requirements vary by programme, and are listed on the individual undergraduate degree programme webpages
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Bermuda Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, we would normally require a good upper second class (2:1) bachelor's degree or higher from the University of Technology, the University of the West Indies (UWI), or from another accredited tertiary institution which offers accepted qualifications.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/bhutan:
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Bhutan Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the equivalent of an upper second-class UK bachelor’s honours degree.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the equivalent of an upper second-class UK bachelor’s honours degree.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/bolivia:
In 2023, LSE welcomed four students from Bolivia, at graduate level.
Bolivia baccalaureate The baccalaureate from Bolivia is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The baccalaureate from Bolivia is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Bolivia Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a título de licenciado or título profesional (awarded after a minimum of five years) with an overall minimum mark of 75 per cent.
We also accept the titulo/diploma de especialista (awarded after a minimum of 800 hours) or the titulo de maestria (profesionalizante) (awarded after a minimum of six months) with pass marks.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require the Licenciado en Derecho with marks of 77 per cent or higher, or an overall mark of Distinguido.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a título de maestría, a magister scientiarum or a titulo de maestria (academica) (awarded after a minimum of 800 hours) and expect marks of 75 per cent.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a título de licenciado or título profesional (awarded after a minimum of five years) with an overall minimum mark of 75 per cent.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a título de maestría, a magister scientiarum or a titulo de maestria (academica) (awarded after a minimum of 800 hours) and expect marks of 75 per cent.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/bosnia-herzegovina:
In 2023, LSE welcomed three students from Bosnia and Herzegovina, at graduate level.
Equivalency of Bosnia and Herzegovina matura/­svjedodžba o završenom razredu srednje škole with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in matura/­svjedodžba o završenom razredu srednje škole A*AA, AAA An overall mark of at least 5 AAB An overall mark of at least 4 Mathematics A*/A 5 in Mathematics If you are studying the above qualification and your application is competitive, you may also be requested to complete the Undergraduate Admissions Assessment (UGAA) before a final decision can be made on your application.
An overall mark of at least 5
An overall mark of at least 4
5 in Mathematics
If you are studying the above qualification and your application is competitive, you may also be requested to complete the Undergraduate Admissions Assessment (UGAA) before a final decision can be made on your application.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Bosnia and Herzegovina Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a master's programme we would normally require the post-Bologna bachelor's degree (when started after 2007).
If you completed your degree prior to 2008 we would normally require the diploma visokog obrazovanja degree (advanced diploma of higher education).
In either case we would normall require an overall mark of 9/10, B or 4/5.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require the magister with an overall grade of 9/10 or 4/5.
To be considered for admission to a master's programme we would normally require the post-Bologna bachelor's degree (when started after 2007).
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require the magister with an overall grade of 9/10 or 4/5.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/botswana:
In 2023, LSE welcomed three students from Botswana, at graduate level.
Botswana Cambridge Overseas School Certificate (COSC) The Cambridge Overseas School Certificate (COSC) is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Cambridge Overseas School Certificate (COSC) is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Botswana Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a master's degree we would normally require a master’s degree from the University of Botswana with a final grade of 70%, B, or Very Good, or a cumulative GPA of 4 /5, or 3.3/4.
We can also accept a five-year bachelor’s degree with an overall grade of 3.6/5, considered on a case-by-case basis.
To be considered for admission to a master's degree we would normally require a master’s degree from the University of Botswana with a final grade of 70%, B, or Very Good, or a cumulative GPA of 4 /5, or 3.3/4.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/brazil:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 68 students from Brazil, eight at undergraduate level and 60 at graduate level.
Brazilian Society The Brazilian Society aims to promote various aspects of the country, from its unique culture to its socio-economic concerns.
The society is enhanced by the unparalleled warmth, hospitality and enthusiasm for life that Brazilian people share.
Our Society is made up of Brazilians and non-Brazilians alike.
Students@LSE Blogs Follow Brazilian graduate student Matheus as he blogs about his journey at LSE.
The Brazilian Society aims to promote various aspects of the country, from its unique culture to its socio-economic concerns.
Follow Brazilian graduate student Matheus as he blogs about his journey at LSE.
Brazil certificado de ensino medio and/or vestibular/ENEM/PAS The certificado de ensino medio and/or vestibular/ENEM/PAS is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The certificado de ensino medio and/or vestibular/ENEM/PAS is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Brazil Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a licenciado or bacharel awarded after a minimum of four years study with a minimum overall/average mark of 7.5/10 or a GPA of 4.1/5.
Some universities also use a “national rating” system to assess quality.
This is assessed on an A to E scale.
We would normally require an average of B+ (with more As than Bs).
We also accept the Certificado de Especialista / Curso de Especialização with a pass mark.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first-class equivalent), we require a mark of 9/10, 4.5/5 or A-.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we require a Bacharel em Direito with an average of 8/10 or 4.5/5 from well-regarded institutions and 8.5/10 from other institutions.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a stricto sensu (strict sense) mestrado degree and expect an overall mark of 8/10, B or good/bom.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a licenciado or bacharel awarded after a minimum of four years study with a minimum overall/average mark of 7.5/10 or a GPA of 4.1/5.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a stricto sensu (strict sense) mestrado degree and expect an overall mark of 8/10, B or good/bom.
LSE Events in Brazil LSE visits Brazil regularly to meet with prospective students.
LSE visits Brazil regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/british-virgin-islands:
In 2023, LSE welcomed six students from the British Virgin Islands, one at undergraduate level and five at graduate level.
Undergraduate entry requirements for applicants from the British Virgin Islands Please view information on accepted international qualifications .
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from the British Virgin Isles Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, we would normally require a good upper second class (2:1) bachelor's degree or higher from the University of Technology, the University of the West Indies (UWI), or from another accredited tertiary institution which offers accepted qualifications.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/brunei:
In 2023, LSE welcomed six students from Brunei, five at undergraduate level and one at graduate level.
Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) LSESU ASEAN Society aims to promote interest in ASEAN through discourse, research, and cultural exchange among member-country students and interested parties.
LSESU ASEAN Society aims to promote interest in ASEAN through discourse, research, and cultural exchange among member-country students and interested parties.
Equivalency of Brunei/Cambridge GCE A levels and BDTVEC higher national diploma with GCE A levels We regard Brunei/Cambridge GCE A levels as equivalent to (UK) GCE A levels and our standard offer would be the same.
A level grade Equivalent in the Brunei/Cambridge GCE A levels A*AA, AAA, AAB As UK GCE A levels Mathematics A*/A As UK GCE A levels Mathematics grades BDTVEC Higher National Diploma This qualification will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Candidates may be required to sit the Undergraduate Admissions Assessment (UGAA) and where mathematics is required, to hold an A in A level maths or equivalent.
We regard Brunei/Cambridge GCE A levels as equivalent to (UK) GCE A levels and our standard offer would be the same.
A*AA, AAA, AAB
As UK GCE A levels
BDTVEC Higher National Diploma This qualification will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Brunei Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a four year bachelor (honours) degree with an upper second class honours or a GPA of 4/5.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s degree and expect an overall mark of 4/5.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a four year bachelor (honours) degree with an upper second class honours or a GPA of 4/5.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s degree and expect an overall mark of 4/5.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/bulgaria:
In 2023, LSE welcomed nine students from Bulgaria, seven at undergraduate level and two at graduate level.
Students@LSE Blogs Follow Bulgarian Study Abroad student Nadya as she blogs about her journey at LSE.
Follow Bulgarian Study Abroad student Nadya as she blogs about her journey at LSE.
Equivalency of Bulgaria diploma za zaversheno sredno obrazovanie with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in diploma za zaversheno sredno obrazovanie A*AA, AAA Obtain at least 5.8 overall with at least 5.8 and 6.0 in two state matura/matriculation examinations AAB Obtain at least 5.6 overall with at least 5.6 and 6.0 in two state matura/matriculation examinations Mathematics A*/A Obtain 6 in the state matura/matriculation examination in Mathematics If you are studying the above qualification and your application is competitive, you may also be requested to complete the Undergraduate Admissions Assessment (UGAA) before a final decision can be made on your application.
Obtain at least 5.8 overall with at least 5.8 and 6.0 in two state matura/matriculation examinations
Obtain at least 5.6 overall with at least 5.6 and 6.0 in two state matura/matriculation examinations
Obtain 6 in the state matura/matriculation examination in Mathematics
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Bulgaria Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor's degree (started after 2001) or the master's degree (awarded pre-2001) with grades of 5/6 or above.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first-class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor's degree (started after 2001) or the master's degree (awarded pre-2001) with grades of 5.5/6 or above.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree with an overall mark of 5 or above.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor's degree (started after 2001) or the master's degree (awarded pre-2001) with grades of 5/6 or above.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree with an overall mark of 5 or above.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/burkina-faso:
In 2023, LSE welcomed one student from Burkina Faso, at graduate level.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Burkina Faso Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme with a minimum entry requirement of a good upper second class (2:1) bachelor's degree, we would normally require the Diplôme d'Études Approfondies or Diplôme d'Études Supérieures Spécialisées from a recognised public or private institution.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require require a Doctorat de Troisième Cycle or Doctorat de Spécialité from a recognised public or private institution and expect an overall grade of 15/20.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme with a minimum entry requirement of a good upper second class (2:1) bachelor's degree, we would normally require the Diplôme d'Études Approfondies or Diplôme d'Études Supérieures Spécialisées from a recognised public or private institution.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require require a Doctorat de Troisième Cycle or Doctorat de Spécialité from a recognised public or private institution and expect an overall grade of 15/20.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/burma:
In 2023, LSE welcomed seven students from Burma (Myanmar), one at undergraduate level and six at graduate level.
Burma basic education standard 10 examination The basic education standard 10 examination (matriculation exam) is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The basic education standard 10 examination (matriculation exam) is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Burma Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, we would normally require a master's degree with second class upper division, an overall grade of B+, 60 per cent or an overall GPA of 4.0/5.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a pass in the master of research degree, after the successful completion of a master's degree and expect a merit, 70 per cent or a GPA of 4.5/5.0.
To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, we would normally require a master's degree with second class upper division, an overall grade of B+, 60 per cent or an overall GPA of 4.0/5.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a pass in the master of research degree, after the successful completion of a master's degree and expect a merit, 70 per cent or a GPA of 4.5/5.0.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/cambodia:
In 2023, LSE welcomed four students from Cambodia, one at undergraduate level and three at graduate level.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Cambodia Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a master's degree with a minimum overall mark of 80 percent, or B+, or a GPA of 3.5/4.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first-class equivalent), we require a master’s degree, with a minimum overall mark of 85 per cent, or A or Excellent or a GPA of 3.75/4.
Research programmes For further information on entry requirements please contact the Graduate Admissions Office .
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a master's degree with a minimum overall mark of 80 percent, or B+, or a GPA of 3.5/4.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/cameroon:
In 2023, LSE welcomed one student from Cameroon, at graduate level.
Cameroon baccalauréat The baccalauréat from Cameroon is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The baccalauréat from Cameroon is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Cameroon Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the master 1, maîtrise/ master sans thèse, diplôme d’etudes supérieures de commerce or diplôme d’ingénieur de conception, doctorat en pharmacie, doctorat en médecine with a minimum overall mark of 14/20, 70 per cent or a GPA of 3.3/4.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a two-year master’s degree, master 2, diplôme d’etudes approfondies/master avec thèse, diplôme d’etudes supérieures spécialisées or diplôme d’etudes professionnelles approfondies and expect an overall mark of 14/20, 70 per cent or a GPA of 3.3/4.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the master 1, maîtrise/ master sans thèse, diplôme d’etudes supérieures de commerce or diplôme d’ingénieur de conception, doctorat en pharmacie, doctorat en médecine with a minimum overall mark of 14/20, 70 per cent or a GPA of 3.3/4.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a two-year master’s degree, master 2, diplôme d’etudes approfondies/master avec thèse, diplôme d’etudes supérieures spécialisées or diplôme d’etudes professionnelles approfondies and expect an overall mark of 14/20, 70 per cent or a GPA of 3.3/4.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/canada:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 225 students from Canada, 27 at undergraduate level and 198 at graduate level.
Canadian Society The Canadian Society aims to: Provide a forum for Canadians to socialise Connect members to relevant employers/professionals working in the UK Host speakers and debates Celebrate national holidays Provide support for members studying abroad.
Students@LSE Blogs Follow Canadian graduate students Madeleine and Sam as they blog about their journey at LSE.
The Canadian Society aims to:
Follow Canadian graduate students Madeleine and Sam as they blog about their journey at LSE.
Equivalency of Canadian qualifications with GCE A levels Students applying from a Canadian university Applicants from Canadian universities should have a minimum GPA above 3.3 and preferably 3.75 (on a 4.0 scale) or above 7 (on a 9 point scale), a minimum of 9 (on a 12 point scale), or a minimum average of B+ in relevant modules.
Advanced Placement (AP) tests Please visit the USA country page .
Province: Alberta, Northwest Territories, Nunavut Qualification: High School Graduation Diploma Standard offer for A*AA degrees: Average of 95 per cent in five grade 12 academic courses Standard offer for AAA degrees: Average of 93 per cent in five grade 12 academic courses Standard offer for AAB degrees: Average of 90 per cent in five grade 12 academic courses Required Mathematics courses: Mathematics 31.
A* = minimum 95 per cent, A = minimum 93 per cent Province: British Columbia, Yukon Qualification: Certificate of Graduation, High School Diploma Standard offer for A*AA degrees: Average of 95 per cent in at least five grade 12 academic subjects Standard offer for AAA degrees: Average of 93 per cent in at least five grade 12 academic subjects Standard offer for AAB degrees: Average of 90 per cent in at least five grade 12 academic subjects Required Mathematics courses: Calculus 12.
A* = minimum 95 per cent, A= minimum 93 per cent Province: Manitoba Qualification: High School Graduation Diploma Standard offer for A*AA degrees: Five credits awarded at the 300 level in at least four academic subject areas, with not less than 95 per cent in each Standard offer for AAA degrees: Five credits awarded at the 300 level in at least four academic subject areas, with not less than 93 per cent in each Standard offer for AAB degrees: Five credits awarded at the 300 level in at least four academic subject areas, with not less than 90 per cent in each Required Mathematics courses: Introduction to Calculus (45S).
A* = minimum 95 per cent.
A = minimum 93 per cent.
For courses where Further Maths is preferred:  Advanced Maths (45S or 40S, or both).
Province: New Brunswick Qualification: High School Graduation Diploma/Diplome de Fin D’Etudes Secondaires Standard offer for A*AA degrees: Average of 95 per cent in five grade 12 academic courses Standard offer for AAA degrees: Average of 93 per cent in five grade 12 academic courses Standard offer for AAB degrees: Average of 90 per cent in five grade 12 academic courses Required Mathematics courses: Calculus 120 (or Intro to Calculus 120).
A = minimum 93 per cent Province: Newfoundland and Labrador Qualification: Graduate Certificate New Foundland and Labrador High School Graduation Diploma Standard offer for A*AA degrees: Average of 95 per cent in five academic subjects at university preparatory level (grade 12) Standard offer for AAA degrees: Average of 93 per cent in five academic subjects at university preparatory level (grade 12) Standard offer for AAB degrees: Average of 90 per cent in five academic subjects at university preparatory level (grade 12) Required Mathematics courses: Maths 3208.
Province: Nova Scotia Qualification: Nova Scotia High School Graduation Diploma Standard offer for A*AA degrees: Average of 95 per cent in five Honours University Preparatory Courses (5) or University Preparatory Courses (4) Standard offer for AAA degrees: Average of 93 per cent in five Honours University Preparatory Courses (5) or University Preparatory Courses (4) Standard offer for AAB degrees: Average of 90 per cent in five Honours University Preparatory Courses (5) or University Preparatory Courses (4) Required Mathematics courses: Calculus 12.
A = minimum 93 per cent Province: Ontario Qualification: Ontario Secondary School Diploma with University Preparatory Courses Standard offer for A*AA degrees: Average of 95 per cent in six grade 12 academic courses, five of which must be University Preparatory Courses (4U or DU).
The sixth course could be a University/ College Preparation Course (4M).
Standard offer for AAA degrees: Average of 93 per cent in six grade 12 academic courses, five of which must be University Preparatory Courses (4U or DU).
Standard offer for AAB degrees: Average of 90 per cent in six grade 12 academic courses, five of which must be University Preparatory Courses (4U or DU).
Required Mathematics courses: MCV4U.
Province: Prince Edward Island Qualification: High School Graduation Diploma Standard offer for A*AA degrees: Average of 95 per cent in five grade 12 academic courses Standard offer for AAA degrees: Average of 93 per cent in five grade 12 academic courses Standard offer for AAB degrees: Average of 90 per cent in five grade 12 academic courses Required Mathematics courses: Maths 611B.
Province: Quebec Qualification: Pre-University Diplome D’Etudes Collegiales (DEC)/Diploma of Collegial Studies Standard offer for A*AA degrees: An average of 95 per cent Standard offer for AAA degrees: An average of 93 per cent Standard offer for AAB degrees: An average of 90 per cent Required Mathematics courses: Calculus 1.
Province: Saskatchewan Qualification: Transcript of Secondary Level Achievement Standard offer for A*AA degrees: An average of 95 per cent in five grade 12 academic courses Standard offer for AAA degrees: An average of 93 per cent in five grade 12 academic courses Standard offer for AAB degrees: An average of 90 per cent in five grade 12 academic courses Required Mathematics courses: Calculus 30.
Applicants who have completed their high school diploma in a Francophone school may be asked to meet our English Language requirements.
Applicants from Canadian universities should have a minimum GPA above 3.3 and preferably 3.75 (on a 4.0 scale) or above 7 (on a 9 point scale), a minimum of 9 (on a 12 point scale), or a minimum average of B+ in relevant modules.
Please visit the USA country page .
Qualification: High School Graduation Diploma Standard offer for A*AA degrees: Average of 95 per cent in five grade 12 academic courses Standard offer for AAA degrees: Average of 93 per cent in five grade 12 academic courses Standard offer for AAB degrees: Average of 90 per cent in five grade 12 academic courses Required Mathematics courses: Mathematics 31.
A* = minimum 95 per cent, A = minimum 93 per cent
Qualification: Certificate of Graduation, High School Diploma Standard offer for A*AA degrees: Average of 95 per cent in at least five grade 12 academic subjects Standard offer for AAA degrees: Average of 93 per cent in at least five grade 12 academic subjects Standard offer for AAB degrees: Average of 90 per cent in at least five grade 12 academic subjects Required Mathematics courses: Calculus 12.
A* = minimum 95 per cent, A= minimum 93 per cent
Qualification: High School Graduation Diploma Standard offer for A*AA degrees: Five credits awarded at the 300 level in at least four academic subject areas, with not less than 95 per cent in each Standard offer for AAA degrees: Five credits awarded at the 300 level in at least four academic subject areas, with not less than 93 per cent in each Standard offer for AAB degrees: Five credits awarded at the 300 level in at least four academic subject areas, with not less than 90 per cent in each Required Mathematics courses: Introduction to Calculus (45S).
Qualification: High School Graduation Diploma/Diplome de Fin D’Etudes Secondaires Standard offer for A*AA degrees: Average of 95 per cent in five grade 12 academic courses Standard offer for AAA degrees: Average of 93 per cent in five grade 12 academic courses Standard offer for AAB degrees: Average of 90 per cent in five grade 12 academic courses Required Mathematics courses: Calculus 120 (or Intro to Calculus 120).
A = minimum 93 per cent
Qualification: Graduate Certificate New Foundland and Labrador High School Graduation Diploma Standard offer for A*AA degrees: Average of 95 per cent in five academic subjects at university preparatory level (grade 12) Standard offer for AAA degrees: Average of 93 per cent in five academic subjects at university preparatory level (grade 12) Standard offer for AAB degrees: Average of 90 per cent in five academic subjects at university preparatory level (grade 12) Required Mathematics courses: Maths 3208.
Qualification: Nova Scotia High School Graduation Diploma Standard offer for A*AA degrees: Average of 95 per cent in five Honours University Preparatory Courses (5) or University Preparatory Courses (4) Standard offer for AAA degrees: Average of 93 per cent in five Honours University Preparatory Courses (5) or University Preparatory Courses (4) Standard offer for AAB degrees: Average of 90 per cent in five Honours University Preparatory Courses (5) or University Preparatory Courses (4) Required Mathematics courses: Calculus 12.
Qualification: Ontario Secondary School Diploma with University Preparatory Courses Standard offer for A*AA degrees: Average of 95 per cent in six grade 12 academic courses, five of which must be University Preparatory Courses (4U or DU).
Qualification: High School Graduation Diploma Standard offer for A*AA degrees: Average of 95 per cent in five grade 12 academic courses Standard offer for AAA degrees: Average of 93 per cent in five grade 12 academic courses Standard offer for AAB degrees: Average of 90 per cent in five grade 12 academic courses Required Mathematics courses: Maths 611B.
Qualification: Pre-University Diplome D’Etudes Collegiales (DEC)/Diploma of Collegial Studies Standard offer for A*AA degrees: An average of 95 per cent Standard offer for AAA degrees: An average of 93 per cent Standard offer for AAB degrees: An average of 90 per cent Required Mathematics courses: Calculus 1.
Qualification: Transcript of Secondary Level Achievement Standard offer for A*AA degrees: An average of 95 per cent in five grade 12 academic courses Standard offer for AAA degrees: An average of 93 per cent in five grade 12 academic courses Standard offer for AAB degrees: An average of 90 per cent in five grade 12 academic courses Required Mathematics courses: Calculus 30.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Canada Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a Bachelor’s degree (honours) or a bachelor’s degree (from French-speaking institutions) or Doctor of Dental Medicine / Surgery, Doctor of Medicine with a minimum grade of 76 per cent or B+.
To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme (first-class equivalent), we would normally require 82 per cent or A-.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require a law degree (JD, LLB, LLL or BCL) with at least a B+ average or 76 per cent.
This is equivalent to a GPA of 3.3/4, 3.3/4.3, 7/9, 7/10, 9/12.
From the University of Toronto we require H average.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's or maitrise with average marks of 77 per cent or B+ overall.
To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a Bachelor’s degree (honours) or a bachelor’s degree (from French-speaking institutions) or Doctor of Dental Medicine / Surgery, Doctor of Medicine with a minimum grade of 76 per cent or B+.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's or maitrise with average marks of 77 per cent or B+ overall.
LSE Events in Canada LSE visits Canada regularly to meet with prospective students.
In 2018 and 2019 LSE held information sessions in Toronto and Vancouver.
LSE also held an LSE Discovery session in Toronto in December 2019.
LSE visits Canada regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/cayman-islands:
In 2022, LSE welcomed two students from Cayman Islands, at graduate level.
Undergraduate entry requirements for applicants from the Cayman Islands Please view information on accepted international qualifications .
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from the Cayman Islands Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, we would normally require a good upper second class (2:1) bachelor's degree or higher from the University of Technology, the University of the West Indies (UWI), or from another accredited tertiary institution which offers accepted qualifications.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/chile:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 66 students from Chile, at graduate level.
Chile Society The Chile Society aims at gathering together Chilean and non-Chilean students interested in the political, economic, social and cultural issues of this Latin American country.
The Chile Society aims at gathering together Chilean and non-Chilean students interested in the political, economic, social and cultural issues of this Latin American country.
Chile licencia de educación media The licencia de educación media is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The licencia de educación media is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Chile Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (2:1 upper second equivalent), we would normally require a grado de licenciado/licenciatura (achieved after four years study) or the título (profesional) de [subject area] (awarded after the grado de licenciado or the grado de bachiller/bachillerato) with an overall mark of 5/7 (bueno) or 70 per cent.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first class equivalent), we would normally require a licenciado/licenciatura (achieved after four years’ study) or the título (profesional) de [subject area] (awarded after the grado de licenciado or the grado de bachiller/bachillerato) with an overall mark of 6/7.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require the Licenciado en Ciencias Jurídicas y Sociales or Licenciado en Derecho degree with an overall average of 6/7.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a magister with an overall grade of 5.0/7 (bueno) or 70 per cent.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (2:1 upper second equivalent), we would normally require a grado de licenciado/licenciatura (achieved after four years study) or the título (profesional) de [subject area] (awarded after the grado de licenciado or the grado de bachiller/bachillerato) with an overall mark of 5/7 (bueno) or 70 per cent.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a magister with an overall grade of 5.0/7 (bueno) or 70 per cent.
LSE Events in Chile LSE visits Chile regularly to meet with prospective students.
In 2018 and 2019 LSE held information sessions in Santiago.
LSE visits Chile regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/china:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 2,165 students from China, 743 at undergraduate level and 1,422 at graduate level.
Chinese Society The Chinese Society , is one of the largest student based groups within LSE.
Our aim is to integrate and promote cultural identity of the Chinese community within the university.
We strive to provide a warm and welcoming environment for our Chinese students.
Our influence stretches from career events, social events, sports to charity campaign - ultimately we aim to provide a comprehensive platform for our members not only to achieve their aspirations, but also to reach out to challenge their limits.
China Development Society The China Development Society (CDS) strives to promote a global understanding of China.
Our core mission is to inculcate an all-rounded understanding of China amongst our members as well as the wider public.
We are the pioneer organisation on campus to focus on issues surrounding China's development and rapidly changing landscape.
With a long-standing vision to "bridge perspectives and opportunities", our society has laid a great emphasis on organising intellectually stimulating public lectures, informative corporate presentations, large-scale conferences and networking sessions for our members and the wider public.
Chinese Students and Scholars Association The Chinese Students and Scholars Association (CSSA) is made up of five different divisions; each plays an important part in helping to achieve our objectives.
The careers division brings a variety of careers-related events from all industry types in order to help students to take the right career paths.
Our charity division promotes charitable actions through organising charity events.
The culture division organises talks related to culture, history and various other issues about China as well as providing free Chinese classes, in both Mandarin and Cantonese.
The marketing division provides up-to-date information about our society events for our members.
Our social division organises both intra- and inter-social events across LSE and other universities.
Students@LSE Blogs Follow Chinese graduate student Tia as she blogs about her journey at LSE.
The Chinese Society , is one of the largest student based groups within LSE.
The China Development Society (CDS) strives to promote a global understanding of China.
The Chinese Students and Scholars Association (CSSA) is made up of five different divisions; each plays an important part in helping to achieve our objectives.
Follow Chinese graduate student Tia as she blogs about her journey at LSE.
Equivalency of National College Entrance Examination (NCEE) (Gaokao) with AST exams with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in National College Entrance Examination (NCEE) (Gaokao) with AST exams) A*AA, AAA, AAB To complete the National College Entrance Examination (NCEE – GaoKao) and achieve competitive AST scores (A = 210, A* = 250) Mathematics A*/A Achieve 250 in Mathematics Chinese senior high school diploma The senior high school diploma is not acceptable as an entry qualification to LSE.
High-calibre students from across China are welcome to apply to LSE with the assistance of the Ambright Education Group via the China Excellence Identification Scheme (CEIS) .
To complete the National College Entrance Examination (NCEE – GaoKao) and achieve competitive AST scores (A = 210, A* = 250)
Achieve 250 in Mathematics
The senior high school diploma is not acceptable as an entry qualification to LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from China Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor's degree with an overall mark of 85 per cent from applicants who have attended a highly regarded institution in China, while all other applicants are normally required to obtain a mark of at least 90 per cent.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first-class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor's degree with an overall mark of 88 per cent from applicants who have attended a highly regarded institution in China, while all other applicants are normally required to obtain a mark of 93 per cent.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require a four-year bachelor’s degree in law with an overall mark of 86 per cent from institutions which are well regarded for Law, or 90 per cent from other institutions.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree with an overall mark of 85 per cent/B from applicants who have attended a highly regarded institution, while all other applicants are normally required to obtain a mark of 90 per cent/A.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor's degree with an overall mark of 85 per cent from applicants who have attended a highly regarded institution in China, while all other applicants are normally required to obtain a mark of at least 90 per cent.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree with an overall mark of 85 per cent/B from applicants who have attended a highly regarded institution, while all other applicants are normally required to obtain a mark of 90 per cent/A.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/colombia:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 74 students from Colombia, five at undergraduate level and 69 at graduate level.
Colombian Society The LSESU Colombian Society aims to create a network of people interested in the Colombian culture.
Our purpose is to share the Colombian values and to discuss topics currently relevant to the country.
The LSESU Colombian Society aims to create a network of people interested in the Colombian culture.
Colombia bachillerato The bachillerato is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The bachillerato is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Colombia Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (2:1 equivalent), we would normally require a licenciado or professional title awarded after four years with a minimum overall mark of 3.8/5.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first-class equivalent), we would normally require a licenciado or professional title awarded after four years with a minimum overall mark of 4.5/5.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require the Abogado or Doctor en Derecho with a minimum overall average of 4.2/5.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a magister with an overall minimum mark of 4.0/5 or 5.0/6.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (2:1 equivalent), we would normally require a licenciado or professional title awarded after four years with a minimum overall mark of 3.8/5.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a magister with an overall minimum mark of 4.0/5 or 5.0/6.
LSE Visits Colombia LSE visits Colombia regularly to meet with prospective students.
In 2018 and 2019 LSE held information sessions in Bogotá, Cali and Medellín.
LSE visits Colombia regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/comoros:
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Comoros Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the equivalent of an upper second-class UK bachelor’s honours degree.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/costa-rica:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 11 students from Costa Rica, at graduate level.
Costa Rica bachillerato The bachillerato is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Costa Rica Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the licenciado (awarded after a minimum of four years study) or the bachillerato universitario or the bachiller with an overall mark of above 85 per cent or 8.5/10.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require the Licenciado en Derecho with an overall average above 85 per cent or 8.5/10 and a minimum of four years’ study.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require the maestria and expect a mark of 8.5/10
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the licenciado (awarded after a minimum of four years study) or the bachillerato universitario or the bachiller with an overall mark of above 85 per cent or 8.5/10.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require the maestria and expect a mark of 8.5/10
LSE Events in Costa Rica LSE visits Costa Rica regularly to meet with prospective students.
In 2018 LSE held information sessions in San José.
LSE visits Costa Rica regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/croatia:
In 2023, LSE welcomed four students from Croatia, at graduate level.
Equivalency of Croatia maturatna svjedodzba with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in maturatna svjedodzba A*AA Achieve a 5 overall with a 5 in at least four subjects AAA, AAB Achieve a 5 overall with a 5 in at least three subjects Mathematics A*/A Achieve a 5 in higher level/advanced Mathematics If you are studying the above qualification and your application is competitive, you may also be requested to complete the Undergraduate Admissions Assessment (UGAA) before a final decision can be made on your application.
Achieve a 5 overall with a 5 in at least four subjects
AAA, AAB
Achieve a 5 overall with a 5 in at least three subjects
Achieve a 5 in higher level/advanced Mathematics
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Croatia Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a baccalaureus/baccalaurea degree (started after 2005) or the visoko obrazovanja/level VII/1 when awarded before 2005.
We would normally require grades of 4 or above.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a magister/master's degree with an overall mark of 4 or above.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a baccalaureus/baccalaurea degree (started after 2005) or the visoko obrazovanja/level VII/1 when awarded before 2005.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a magister/master's degree with an overall mark of 4 or above.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/cuba:
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Cuba Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a título de licenciado or professional title when awarded after four years with an overall grade of 4.0/5.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a título de máster or the título de especialista/especialidad de posgrado (except for Medicine) and expect an overall grade of 4/5.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a título de licenciado or professional title when awarded after four years with an overall grade of 4.0/5.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a título de máster or the título de especialista/especialidad de posgrado (except for Medicine) and expect an overall grade of 4/5.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/cyprus:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 38 students from Cyprus, 29 at undergraduate level and 9 at graduate level.
Cypriot society The Cypriot society aims to bringing Cypriot students together, as well as organising events and activities that allow foreign students to become acquainted with Cypriot culture.
The Cypriot society aims to bringing Cypriot students together, as well as organising events and activities that allow foreign students to become acquainted with Cypriot culture.
Equivalency of Cypriot apolytirion of lykeio with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in a polytirion of lykeio and two A levels A*AA Obtain at least 19 overall in the Apolytirion of Lykeio and A*A at A level AAA Obtain at least 19 overall in the Apolytirion of Lykeio and AA at A level AAB Obtain at least 19 overall in the Apolytirion of Lykeio and AB at A level Mathematics A*/A 19 in Advanced Mathematics Pancyprian examination or A*/A in Mathematics A level In terms of academic achievement, our entry requirements vary by programme, and are listed on the individual undergraduate degree programme webpages .
Obtain at least 19 overall in the Apolytirion of Lykeio and A*A at A level
Obtain at least 19 overall in the Apolytirion of Lykeio and AB at A level
19 in Advanced Mathematics Pancyprian examination or A*/A in Mathematics A level
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Cyprus Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require either a bachelor's degree or ptychio from a public university or from a private university accredited by the Ministry of Education and Culture, with minimum grades of 7.0/10.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, (first-class equivalent), we would normally require either a bachelor's degree or ptychio from a public university or from a private university accredited by the Ministry of Education and Culture, with minimum grades of 8.0/10.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require the 4-year bachelor’s degree in law with 7.5/10 or 3.5/4.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree from a public university or a government accredited course from a private university, and expect a minimum grade of 7.5/10.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require either a bachelor's degree or ptychio from a public university or from a private university accredited by the Ministry of Education and Culture, with minimum grades of 7.0/10.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree from a public university or a government accredited course from a private university, and expect a minimum grade of 7.5/10.
LSE Events in Cyprus LSE visits Cyprus regularly to meet with prospective students.
In 2018 and 2019 LSE held information sessions in Nicosia.
LSE visits Cyprus regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/czech-republic:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 15 students from Czech Republic, six at undergraduate level and nine at graduate level.
Czech and Slovak Society The Czech and Slovak Society is a dynamic society aimed at connecting Czech and Slovak students at the LSE and celebrating the very best of Central Europe for anyone interested!
The Czech and Slovak Society is a dynamic society aimed at connecting Czech and Slovak students at the LSE and celebrating the very best of Central Europe for anyone interested!
Equivalency of Czech Maturita with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in Czech Maturita A*AA, AAA, AAB Complete the Maturita with a majority of subjects of 1 Mathematics A*/A Obtain 1 in Mathematics In terms of academic achievement, our entry requirements vary by programme, and are listed on the individual undergraduate degree programme webpages .
Complete the Maturita with a majority of subjects of 1
Obtain 1 in Mathematics
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Czech Republic Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bakalar (when started after 2004) with grades of very good (velmi dobre) or excellent (vyborne), B or 1.5 overall.
For qualifications awarded pre-2004, we require a magistr (formerly absolvent vysoké skoly / professional title) or engineer (inzenyr.
ing).
We require grades of very good (velmi dobre) or excellent (vyborne).
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require a Magistr (Mgr.) with a GPA of at least 1.5/4.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a magistr (when awarded after 2004) with an overall grade of 1.5.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bakalar (when started after 2004) with grades of very good (velmi dobre) or excellent (vyborne), B or 1.5 overall.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a magistr (when awarded after 2004) with an overall grade of 1.5.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/democratic-republic-of-congo:
In 2023, LSE welcomed one student from Democratic Republic of Congo, at graduate level.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from the Democratic Republic of Congo Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the equivalent of an upper second-class UK bachelor’s honours degree.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/denmark:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 36 students from Denmark, five at undergraduate level and 31 at graduate level.
Nordic Society Once upon a time the People of England prayed to be saved from The Scandinavians of the Dark North.
Nowadays, the same people praise us and beg us to turn up.
We are known to hold the best parties at LSE.
Here we are once more, and we are here to stay – seriously this time.
That’s why we are inviting you to join the Nordic Society at LSE , an excellent opportunity to take part in the conquering of the world with fellow blonde Nordics at your side!
Once upon a time the People of England prayed to be saved from The Scandinavians of the Dark North.
Equivalency of the Studentereksamen (STX), Hojere Forberedelseseksamen (HF), Hojere Handelseksamen (HHX) and Hojere Teknisk Eksamen (HTX) with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in Equivalent in the Studentereksamen (STX), Hojere Forberedelseseksamen (HF), Hojere Handelseksamen (HHX) or Hojere Teknisk Eksamen (HTX) A*AA, AAA, AAB Obtain an examination average of at least 10.0 Mathematics A* Grade 12 in the Mathematics A examination Mathematics A Grade 10 in the Mathematics A examination In terms of academic achievement, our entry requirements vary by programme, and are listed on the individual undergraduate degree programme webpages .
Obtain an examination average of at least 10.0
Grade 12 in the Mathematics A examination
Grade 10 in the Mathematics A examination
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Denmark Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require the post-2007 bachelor's degree with marks of 7.0/12 or above.
In the pre-2007 grading system, we would require 9.0/13 or above.
Candidatus Philosophiae and Diplomingeniør (Engineer) are also equivalent to the British bachelor’s (honours) degree.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first-class equivalent), we would normally require the post-2007 bachelor's degree with marks of 10/12 or above.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require the Bacheloruddannelsen with an overall mark of 10/12.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree/kandidat/candidative/candidata degree with an average grade of 10/12 or above.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require the post-2007 bachelor's degree with marks of 7.0/12 or above.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree/kandidat/candidative/candidata degree with an average grade of 10/12 or above.
LSE Events in Denmark LSE visits Denmark regularly to meet with prospective students.
In 2018 and 2019 LSE held information sessions in Copenhagen.
LSE visits Denmark regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/dominica:
In 2022, LSE welcomed one student from Dominica, at graduate level.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Dominica (Caribbean Entry) Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, we would normally require a good upper second class (2:1) bachelor's degree or higher from the University of Technology, the University of the West Indies (UWI), or from another accredited tertiary institution which offers accepted qualifications.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/dominican-republic:
In 2023, LSE welcomed one student from Dominican Republic, at graduate level.
Dominican Society The Dominican Society connects the Dominican diaspora with those interested in Dominican culture and society.
The Dominican Society connects the Dominican diaspora with those interested in Dominican culture and society.
Dominican Republic Perito The Perito is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Perito is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from the Dominican Republic Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme we would normally require the Licenciatura/Licenciado with a minimum grade of 85%.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require the Maestria and expect an overall grade of 85%.
To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme we would normally require the Licenciatura/Licenciado with a minimum grade of 85%.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require the Maestria and expect an overall grade of 85%.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/east-timor:
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from East Timor Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the equivalent of an upper second-class UK bachelor’s honours degree.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/ecuador:
In 2023, LSE welcomed six students from Ecuador, one at undergraduate level and five at graduate level.
Ecuador Bachillerato/Bachillerato Tecnico The Ecuador Bachillerato/Bachillerato Tecnico is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Ecuador Bachillerato/Bachillerato Tecnico is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Ecuador Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the licenciado or título profesional, when awarded after 4 years, from a highly regarded institution, with marks of 80 per cent or 8/10.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require the Licenciado en Derecho with an overall grade of 9/10.
From Universidad San Francisco de Quito we require a GPA of 3.7/4.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a titulo de magister and expect a mark of 80 per cent or 8/10.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the licenciado or título profesional, when awarded after 4 years, from a highly regarded institution, with marks of 80 per cent or 8/10.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a titulo de magister and expect a mark of 80 per cent or 8/10.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/egypt:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 19 students from Egypt, three at undergraduate level and 16 at graduate level.
Equivalency of Egyptian Certificate of Nile International Secondary Education (CNISE) with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in Egyptian Certificate of Nile International Secondary Education (CNISE) A*AA A*AA in Level 3 subjects AAA AAA in Level 3 subjects AAB AAB in Level 3 subjects Mathematics A*/A Level 3 Mathematics A*/A In terms of academic achievement, our entry requirements vary by programme, and are listed on the individual undergraduate degree programme webpages .
The Thanaweya A'ama, Al-Azhar General and Technical Secondary School Certificates are not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
A*AA in Level 3 subjects
AAA in Level 3 subjects
AAB in Level 3 subjects
Level 3 Mathematics A*/A
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Egypt Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's degree from a university with a mark of 80 per cent.
A GPA of 3.5/4 is normally required for students from the American University of Cairo who have completed a four-year degree programme.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor’s degree in law with a mark of 82 per cent or a GPA of 3.6/4.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a majiser (master's) degree and expect an overall mark of 80 per cent.
A GPA of 3.5/4 is expected for students from the American University of Cairo.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's degree from a university with a mark of 80 per cent.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a majiser (master's) degree and expect an overall mark of 80 per cent.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/el-salvador:
In 2023, LSE welcomed two student from El Salvador, at graduate level.
El Salvador Bachillerato The El Salvador Bachillerato is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The El Salvador Bachillerato is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from El Salvador Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a grado/titulo de maestro/maestria, from a recognised institution, with an overall minimum mark of 8/10.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a grado/titulo de maestro/maestria, from a recognised institution, with an overall minimum mark of 8/10.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/equatorial-guinea:
Undergraduate entry requirements for applicants from Guinea Please view information on accepted international qualifications .
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Equatorial Guinea Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the equivalent of an upper second-class UK bachelor’s honours degree.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/eritrea:
Please view information on accepted international qualifications for alternative options.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Eritrea Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a master’s degree from a recognised public institution, with a GPA of 3.3/4.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a master’s degree from a recognised public institution, with a GPA of 3.3/4.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/estonia:
In 2023, LSE welcomed two students from Estonia, at undergraduate level.
Equivalency of the Estonian Gumnaasiumi Ioputunnistus (Secondary School Leaving Certificate) with the Riigieksamitunnistus (State Examination Certificate) with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in Estonian Gumnaasiumi Ioputunnistus (Secondary School Leaving Certificate) with the Riigieksamitunnistus (State Examination Certificate) A*AA, AAA Obtain the Gumnaasiumi loputunnistus (Secondary School Leaving Certificate) with grade 5 overall and at least 90 per cent in a minimum of 3 Riigieksamitunnistus (State Examinations) and grade 5 in one School Exam.
AAB Obtain the Gumnaasiumi loputunnistus (Secondary School Leaving Certificate) with grade 5 overall and at least 90 per cent in a minimum of 3 Riigieksamitunnistus (State Examinations) and grade 4 in one School Exam.
Mathematics A*/A 90 per cent in Mathematics extensive (14 courses) If you are studying the above qualification and your application is competitive, you may also be requested to complete the Undergraduate Admissions Assessment (UGAA) before a final decision can be made on your application.
Obtain the Gumnaasiumi loputunnistus (Secondary School Leaving Certificate) with grade 5 overall and at least 90 per cent in a minimum of 3 Riigieksamitunnistus (State Examinations) and grade 5 in one School Exam.
Obtain the Gumnaasiumi loputunnistus (Secondary School Leaving Certificate) with grade 5 overall and at least 90 per cent in a minimum of 3 Riigieksamitunnistus (State Examinations) and grade 4 in one School Exam.
90 per cent in Mathematics extensive (14 courses)
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Estonia Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the bakalaurusekraad/diploma (bachelor’s degree) or the university specialist's diploma with an overall mark of 4.0/5.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a magistrikraad (master's degree) and expect a mark of 4.5/5.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the bakalaurusekraad/diploma (bachelor’s degree) or the university specialist's diploma with an overall mark of 4.0/5.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a magistrikraad (master's degree) and expect a mark of 4.5/5.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/eswatini:
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from the Kingdom of Eswatini Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme with a minimum entry requirement of a good upper second class (2:1) bachelor's degree, we would normally require a master’s degree from the University of Eswatini, with a 2:1, 70 per cent or B.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme with a minimum entry requirement of a good upper second class (2:1) bachelor's degree, we would normally require a master’s degree from the University of Eswatini, with a 2:1, 70 per cent or B.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/ethiopia:
In 2023, LSE welcomed three student from Ethiopia, one at undergraduate level and two at graduate level.
Ethiopian Higher Education Entrance Examination / Ethiopian School Leaving Certificate The Ethiopian Higher Education Entrance Examination / Ethiopian School Leaving Certificate is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Ethiopian Higher Education Entrance Examination / Ethiopian School Leaving Certificate is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Ethiopia Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a master's degree with an overall mark of B+ or a GPA of 3.3/4.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a master's degree with an overall mark of B+ or a GPA of 3.3/4.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/fiji:
In 2022, LSE welcomed one student from Fiji, at graduate level.
Fiji School Leaving Certificate / Form 7 examination The School Leaving Certificate and/or Form 7 examination are not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The School Leaving Certificate and/or Form 7 examination are not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Fiji Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's degree from the University of the South Pacific with the majority of component marks at A or above.
Alternatively we accept a master's degree with marks of B+ or above.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree from the University of the South Pacific with an overall grade of B+.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's degree from the University of the South Pacific with the majority of component marks at A or above.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree from the University of the South Pacific with an overall grade of B+.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/finland:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 15 students from Finland, three at undergraduate level and 12 at graduate level.
Equivalency of the Finnish Ylioppilastutkinto / Studentexamen (Matriculation Examination) with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in the Finnish Ylioppilastutkinto / Studentexamen (Matriculation Examination) A*AA At least four subjects, with two subjects at grade 7 (Laudatur, excellent) and two subjects at grade 6 (Eximia cum laude approbatur, exceptionally good) AAA At least four subjects, with one subject at grade 7 (Laudatur, excellent), and three subjects at grade 6 (Eximia cum laude approbatur, exceptionally good) AAB At least four subjects at grade 6 (Eximia cum laude approbatur, exceptionally good) Mathematics A* Advanced Maths at grade 7 (Laudatur, excellent) Mathematics A Advanced Maths at grade 6 (Eximia cum laude approbatur, exceptionally good) In terms of academic achievement, our entry requirements vary by programme, and are listed on the individual undergraduate degree programme webpages .
At least four subjects, with two subjects at grade 7 (Laudatur, excellent) and two subjects at grade 6 (Eximia cum laude approbatur, exceptionally good)
At least four subjects, with one subject at grade 7 (Laudatur, excellent), and three subjects at grade 6 (Eximia cum laude approbatur, exceptionally good)
At least four subjects at grade 6 (Eximia cum laude approbatur, exceptionally good)
Advanced Maths at grade 7 (Laudatur, excellent)
Advanced Maths at grade 6 (Eximia cum laude approbatur, exceptionally good)
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Finland Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require the kandidaatti/kandidat or bachelor, completed after 2007, with a minimum overall grade of 2.0/3, where 1 is satisfactory and 3 is excellent, or a minimum overall grade of 3.5/5 (Good), where 1 is satisfactory and 5 is excellent.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first-class equivalent), we would normally require the kandidaatti/kandidat or bachelor, completed after 2007, with a minimum overall grade of 2.5/3 or a minimum overall grade of 4.0/5 (Good).
If a percentage mark is provided, we require at least 78 per cent.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require the post-2007 bachelor’s degree in law with an overall grade of 2.5/3 (good) or 4.0/5 (good).
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require the maisteri/magister/master's degree with an average grade of 2/3 or 3/5.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require the kandidaatti/kandidat or bachelor, completed after 2007, with a minimum overall grade of 2.0/3, where 1 is satisfactory and 3 is excellent, or a minimum overall grade of 3.5/5 (Good), where 1 is satisfactory and 5 is excellent.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require the maisteri/magister/master's degree with an average grade of 2/3 or 3/5.
LSE Events in Finland LSE visits Finland regularly to meet with prospective students.
In 2019 LSE held an information session in Helsinki.
LSE visits Finland regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/france:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 327 students from France, 113 at undergraduate level and 214 at graduate level.
French Society The LSE SU French Society organises a wide range of activities including a cycle of conferences and career oriented workshops with speakers from a broad range of sectors amazing social events, including french dinners, wine & cheese gatherings, nights in the best clubs of Mayfair as well as a tennis tournament and exhibition outings!
Students@LSE Blogs Follow French students Camille and Victoire as she blogs about her journey at LSE.
The LSE SU French Society organises a wide range of activities including
Follow French students Camille and Victoire as she blogs about her journey at LSE.
Equivalency of the French Baccalauréat with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in the French Baccalauréat A*AA, AAA Mention Très Bien (16 overall) AAB Mention Bien (15 overall) Mathematics A* 16 in Speciality Maths final examination (taken over 2 years -  year 12 and year 13) Mathematics A 15 in Speciality Maths final examination (taken over 2 years -  year 12 and year 13) Further Mathematics Advanced (Experte) Maths option (studied in year 13) will be accepted Equivalency of the Baccalauréat Français International with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in the Baccalauréat Français International A*AA, AAA Mention Très Bien (15 overall) AAB Mention Bien (14 overall) Mathematics A* 16 in Speciality Maths final examination (taken over 2 years - year 12 and year 13) Mathematics A 15 in Speciality Maths final examination (taken over 2 years - year 12 and year 13) Further Mathematics Advanced (Experte) Maths option (studied in year 13) will be accepted Students who complete Baccalauréat Français International (BFI) through the Bilingual route in English (British, American or Australian) and complete the Language, Literature & Culture Module in English (LVA) will not be required to provide additional proof of English language proficiency.
Mention Très Bien (16 overall)
Mention Bien (15 overall)
16 in Speciality Maths final examination (taken over 2 years -  year 12 and year 13)
15 in Speciality Maths final examination (taken over 2 years -  year 12 and year 13)
Further Mathematics
Advanced (Experte) Maths option (studied in year 13) will be accepted
Equivalent in the Baccalauréat Français International
Mention Très Bien (15 overall)
Mention Bien (14 overall)
16 in Speciality Maths final examination (taken over 2 years - year 12 and year 13)
15 in Speciality Maths final examination (taken over 2 years - year 12 and year 13)
Students who complete Baccalauréat Français International (BFI) through the Bilingual route in English (British, American or Australian) and complete the Language, Literature & Culture Module in English (LVA) will not be required to provide additional proof of English language proficiency.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from France Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (2:1, upper second class equivalent), for students who have studied at a French university, we normally require the licence or diplôme d'ingenieur obtained after three years of study with average grades, across all years studied in a French university, of 13.0/20.
For students who have studied at a Grande Ecole, for taught master's programmes, we normally require the diplôme d'ingenieur or the licence with minimum average grades of 13.0/20 or A.
Students should have completed a minimum of three years at a Grande École.
This can include the two year classes préparatoires period.
If the last year has been studied abroad, that country's entry requirements should be met as well.
For students who achieved a licence after three years of classes préparatoires (CPGE) we require the majority of marks at Grade A or an overall 13.0/20.
We also accept the pre-Bologna maîtrise (last awarded in 2009) with a minimum overall mark of 13.0/20.
In addition, we accept the master 1 with a pass mark.
This is equivalent to a UK postgraduate diploma.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first class equivalent), we require 15/20 from universities and 15/20 from a Grande École.
We also accept the pre-Bologna Maîtrise with 15/20 and Master 1 with 13.0/20.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require: from a public university and from the École Normale Superieure de Cachan: a Maîtrise (Master 1) in Law with an average of 13/20.
We expect candidates to have an average of 13.5/20 in the preceding years.
Sciences Po and other Instituts d’Études Politiques: Master 2 in Law with an average of at least 13/20 (and mention assez bien) and we expect an average of 13/20 in the preceding years.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, for students who have studied at a French university, we normally require the master 2/magistère and expect an overall/average grade of 13.5/20.
For students who have studied at a Grande Ecole, we require the master 2/grade de master or the diplôme when completed after five years of substantive study with minimum grades in the final two years of 13.5/20.
This can include the two year classes préparatoires period.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (2:1, upper second class equivalent), for students who have studied at a French university, we normally require the licence or diplôme d'ingenieur obtained after three years of study with average grades, across all years studied in a French university, of 13.0/20.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, for students who have studied at a French university, we normally require the master 2/magistère and expect an overall/average grade of 13.5/20.
LSE Events in France LSE visits France regularly to meet with prospective students.
In October 2018 and 2019 LSE held information sessions and attended fairs in Paris.
LSE is hosting an online information session for prospective students from France on 16 June 2020 .
LSE visits France regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/gambia:
In 2023, LSE welcomed one student from Gambia, at graduate level.
West African Senior School Certificate of Education (WASSCE) The West African Senior School Certificate of Education (WASSCE) is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The West African Senior School Certificate of Education (WASSCE) is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Gambia Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a two year master's degree from The University of The Gambia, with an overall mark of B+ or a QPA of 3.3/4.3.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a two year master's degree from The University of The Gambia, with an overall mark of B+ or a QPA of 3.3/4.3.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/georgia:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 12 students from Georgia, six at undergraduate level and six at graduate level.
Georgian Society The Georgian Society serves to raise awareness and promote Georgian culture and values at LSE and in the UK.
The society brings together students who are interested in or connected to Georgia.
Students@LSE Blogs Follow Georgian study abroad student Tamar as she blogs about her journey at LSE.
The Georgian Society serves to raise awareness and promote Georgian culture and values at LSE and in the UK.
Follow Georgian study abroad student Tamar as she blogs about her journey at LSE.
Georgian Secondary School Leaving Certificate The Georgian Secondary School Leaving Certificate is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Georgian Secondary School Leaving Certificate is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Georgia Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the bakalauaris khariskhi (bachelor’s degree), when started after 2005, with an overall grade of 4.5/5, 3.0/4, 81 per cent, B or Very Good.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor’s degree in law with an overall mark of 3.5/4.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a magistris khariskhi (master’s degree) and expect an overall 4/5.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the bakalauaris khariskhi (bachelor’s degree), when started after 2005, with an overall grade of 4.5/5, 3.0/4, 81 per cent, B or Very Good.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a magistris khariskhi (master’s degree) and expect an overall 4/5.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/germany:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 376 students from Germany, 65 at undergraduate level and 311 at graduate level.
German Society With an annual membership of roughly 500, the German Society is one of the largest and most active societies on campus and one of the largest German student societies anywhere in the world.
The society promotes an interest in German culture, politics, business and language.
Students@LSE Blogs Follow German undergraduate student Hélène and graduate student Sarah as they blog about their journey at LSE.
With an annual membership of roughly 500, the German Society is one of the largest and most active societies on campus and one of the largest German student societies anywhere in the world.
Follow German undergraduate student Hélène and graduate student Sarah as they blog about their journey at LSE.
Equivalency of the German Abitur with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in the German Abitur A*AA Obtain 1.3 overall AAA Obtain 1.4 overall AAB Obtain 1.5 overall Mathematics A*/A Mathematics Leistungskurse (LK) with grades of 14/13 in the final written exam and in two individual semester grades In terms of academic achievement, our entry requirements vary by programme, and are listed on the individual undergraduate degree programme webpages .
Obtain 1.3 overall
Obtain 1.4 overall
Obtain 1.5 overall
Mathematics Leistungskurse (LK) with grades of 14/13 in the final written exam and in two individual semester grades
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Germany Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we normally require a bachelor’s degree from a recognised Universität or Fachhochschule.
If you completed your degree prior to 2003 we would normally require the magister artium/diplom/erstes staatsexamen.
In either case we would normally require a minimum overall grade of 2.2/5 (German grading system).
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first-class equivalent), we normally require a bachelor’s degree from a recognised Universität or Fachhochschule.
In either case we would normally require a minimum overall grade of 1.4/5 (German grading system).
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require the First State Legal Exam (Erste Juristische Prüfung), with an overall mark of 9.0/18.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we normally require a master’s degree.
We also accept the magister artium/diplom/erste staatsexamen when completed after 2002.
In either case we expect a minimum overall grade of 2.0 (German grading system).
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we normally require a bachelor’s degree from a recognised Universität or Fachhochschule.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we normally require a master’s degree.
LSE Visits Germany LSE visits Germany regularly to meet with prospective students.
LSE visited Germany in November 2019 as part of the British Council Study UK Higher Education Fair in Cologne, Munich Frankfur.
In 2018 and 2019 LSE also visited Berlin and Stuttgart.
LSE is hosting an online information session for prospective students from Germany on 18 June 2020 .
LSE visits Germany regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/ghana:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 10 students from Ghana, at graduate level.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Ghana Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's (honours) degree (four years in length) from a recognised university.
Where only a 4.0 GPA scale is used, we would normally require 3.3.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor’s (honours) degree in law with an overall mark of 66 per cent or 3.5/4.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a two year master's degree from a recognised university and expect an overall mark of 65 per cent, B+ or 3.5/4.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's (honours) degree (four years in length) from a recognised university.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a two year master's degree from a recognised university and expect an overall mark of 65 per cent, B+ or 3.5/4.
LSE Events in Ghana LSE visits Ghana regularly to meet with prospective students.
In 2018 LSE attended the British Council Fair in Accra.
LSE visits Ghana regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/greece:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 68 students from Greece, 30 at undergraduate level and 38 at graduate level.
Hellenic Society The LSESU Hellenic Society is a National Society designed to promote the Greek culture and organise social and career events, as well as lectures on contemporary issues, relevant to Greece.
The LSESU Hellenic Society is a National Society designed to promote the Greek culture and organise social and career events, as well as lectures on contemporary issues, relevant to Greece.
Equivalency of the Greek Apolytirion of Geniko Lykeio (with Pan-Hellenic examinations) with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in Greek Apolytirion of Geniko Lykeio and two A-levels A*AA Obtain at least 19 overall in the Apolytirion of Lykeio and A*A at A level AAA Obtain at least 19 overall in the Apolytirion of Lykeio and AA at A level AAB Obtain at least 19 overall in the Apolytirion of Lykeio and AB at A level Mathematics A*/A 19 in the Panhellenic Advanced/Specialised Mathematics examination or A*/A in Mathematics A level In terms of academic achievement, our entry requirements vary by programme, and are listed on the individual undergraduate degree programme webpages .
Obtain at least 19 overall in the Apolytirion of Lykeio and AA at A level
19 in the Panhellenic Advanced/Specialised Mathematics examination or A*/A in Mathematics A level
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Greece Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require the ptychio (awarded by an AEI) with a minimum overall mark of 7.0/10, or a GPA of 3.5/4 from The American College of Greece (also known as Deree).
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first-class equivalent), we would normally require the ptychion (awarded by an AEI) with a minimum overall mark of 8.0/10.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require the Ptychion Law degree with an overall average of 7.5/10, completed in four-to-five years of study.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a metaptyxiako diploma eidikefsisand with a minimum overall mark of 7/10.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require the ptychio (awarded by an AEI) with a minimum overall mark of 7.0/10, or a GPA of 3.5/4 from The American College of Greece (also known as Deree).
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a metaptyxiako diploma eidikefsisand with a minimum overall mark of 7/10.
LSE Events in Greece LSE visits Greece regularly to meet with prospective students.
LSE visited Athens and Thessaloniki in October 2019.
LSE visits Greece regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/greenland:
Undergraduate entry requirements for applicants from Greenland Please view information on accepted international qualifications .
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Greenland Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the equivalent of an upper second-class UK bachelor’s honours degree.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/grenada:
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Grenada (Caribbean Entry) Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, we would normally require a good upper second class (2:1) bachelor's degree or higher from the University of Technology, the University of the West Indies (UWI), or from another accredited tertiary institution which offers accepted qualifications.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/guinea-bissau:
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Guinea-Bissau Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the equivalent of an upper second-class UK bachelor’s honours degree.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/guyana:
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Guyana Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme with a minimum entry requirement of a good upper second class (2:1) bachelor's degree, we would normally require a master’s degree with a minimum grade of B or 65 per cent.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme with a minimum entry requirement of a good upper second class (2:1) bachelor's degree, we would normally require a master’s degree with a minimum grade of B or 65 per cent.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/haiti:
Undergraduate entry requirements for applicants from Haiti Please view information on accepted international qualifications .
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Haiti Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the equivalent of an upper second-class UK bachelor’s honours degree.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/hong-kong:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 329 students from Hong Kong, 224 at undergraduate level and 105 at graduate level.
Hong Kong Public Affairs and Social Service The Hong Kong Public Affairs and Social Service delivers vibrant events to our members throughout the year.
While emphasis is placed on Public Affairs and Social Services, as evident in our name, we also host various social events which include dinners, cultural and charity trips – on top of talks given by distinguished speakers, and social service activities.
Students@LSE Blogs Follow Hong Konger undergraduate student Rachael and graduate student William as they blog about their journey at LSE.
The Hong Kong Public Affairs and Social Service delivers vibrant events to our members throughout the year.
Follow Hong Konger undergraduate student Rachael and graduate student William as they blog about their journey at LSE.
Equivalency of Hong Kong A levels/Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education with GCE A levels We regard Hong Kong A levels as equivalent to (UK) GCE A levels and our standard offer would be the same.
A level grade Equivalent in Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE) A*AA Obtain at least 5*55 in your electives, and 5 in English and Mathematics AAA, AAB Obtain at least 555 in your electives, and 5 in English and Mathematics Mathematics A* 5* in both compulsory and extended Mathematics Mathematics A 5 in both compulsory and extended Mathematics In terms of academic achievement, our entry requirements vary by programme, and are listed on the individual undergraduate degree programme webpages .
We regard Hong Kong A levels as equivalent to (UK) GCE A levels and our standard offer would be the same.
Obtain at least 5*55 in your electives, and 5 in English and Mathematics
Obtain at least 555 in your electives, and 5 in English and Mathematics
5* in both compulsory and extended Mathematics
5 in both compulsory and extended Mathematics
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Hong Kong Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor's (honours) degree with a 2:1 classification, or a GPA of 3.3/4.0, 3.3/4.3 or 3.3/4.5.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first-class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor's (honours) degree with a first classification, or a GPA of 3.7/4.0, 3.7/4.3 or 3.3/4.5.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require a Bachelor of Laws or Juris Doctor with a 2.1 or with a minimum GPA of 3.5/4.3 from University of Hong Kong, 3.5/4 from Chinese University of Hong Kong or 3.5/4.3 from City University of Hong Kong.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s degree with a minimum GPA of 3.3/4.0.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor's (honours) degree with a 2:1 classification, or a GPA of 3.3/4.0, 3.3/4.3 or 3.3/4.5.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s degree with a minimum GPA of 3.3/4.0.
LSE Events in Hong Kong LSE visits Hong Kong regularly to meet with prospective students.
In 2018 and 2019 LSE held information sessions in Hong Kong.
LSE visits Hong Kong regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/hungary:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 26 students from Hungary, 14 at undergraduate level and 12 at graduate level.
Hungarian Society The LSESU Hungarian Society was formed in order to build a strong Hungarian community and to connect Hungarian students of LSE with each other and with anyone interested in Hungarian culture, business or politics.
We aim to organise regular socials for our members, many in collaboration with other Central and Eastern European Societies to create a strong community at the LSE.
The LSESU Hungarian Society was formed in order to build a strong Hungarian community and to connect Hungarian students of LSE with each other and with anyone interested in Hungarian culture, business or politics.
Equivalency of the Hungarian Erettsegi / Matura with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in the Hungarian Erettsegi / Matura A*AA Grade 5 in five subjects, with a minimum of 80% in at least two subjects at advanced level AAA Grade 5 in five subjects, with a minimum of 75% in at least two subjects at advanced level AAB Grade 5 in five subjects, with a minimum of 70% in at least two subjects at advanced level Mathematics A*/A Where A* is required: Grade 5 (minimum of 80%) in advanced level Mathematics.
Where A is required: Grade 5 (minimum of 75%) in advanced level Mathematics.
Grade 5 in five subjects, with a minimum of 80% in at least two subjects at advanced level
Grade 5 in five subjects, with a minimum of 75% in at least two subjects at advanced level
Grade 5 in five subjects, with a minimum of 70% in at least two subjects at advanced level
Where A* is required: Grade 5 (minimum of 80%) in advanced level Mathematics.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Hungary Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the alapfokozat (when started after 2004) or the egyetemi oklevel from a university.
In either case we would normally require grades of cum laude or 4/5.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree (mesterfokozat) with grades of cum laude or 4/5.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the alapfokozat (when started after 2004) or the egyetemi oklevel from a university.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree (mesterfokozat) with grades of cum laude or 4/5.
LSE Events in Hungary LSE visits Hungary regularly to meet with prospective students.
In 2018 and 2019 LSE held information sessions in Budapest.
LSE visits Hungary regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/iceland:
In 2023, LSE welcomed four students from Iceland, at graduate level.
Equivalency of the Icelandic Studentspróf with GCE A levels A*AA Stúdentspróf (Academic) (bóknámsbraut) with an overall average score of 10 AAA Stúdentspróf (Academic) (bóknámsbraut) with an overall average score of 9 AAB - Stúdentspróf (Academic) (bóknámsbraut) with an overall average score of 8.5 Maths A*/A Where A* is required in specific subjects, 10 will be required in the individual Studentsprof subject; for A, 9 will be required.
Stúdentspróf (Academic) (bóknámsbraut) with an overall average score of 10
Stúdentspróf (Academic) (bóknámsbraut) with an overall average score of 9
- Stúdentspróf (Academic) (bóknámsbraut) with an overall average score of 8.5
Maths A*/A
Where A* is required in specific subjects, 10 will be required in the individual Studentsprof subject; for A, 9 will be required.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Iceland Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require either a bachelor's degree (baccalaureatus/kandidatsprof/candidatus mag) with average grades of 7.5/10 or first class.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first-class equivalent), we would normally require either a bachelor's degree (baccalaureatus/kandidatsprof/candidatus mag) with average grades of 9.0/10 or first class.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor’s degree in law with a minimum overall grade of 8.0/10.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s degree (meistaraprof) with an overall first class grade.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require either a bachelor's degree (baccalaureatus/kandidatsprof/candidatus mag) with average grades of 7.5/10 or first class.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s degree (meistaraprof) with an overall first class grade.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/india:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 685 students from India, 166 at undergraduate level and 519 at graduate level.
India Society The India Society is the largest and the most active India-focused society on campus.
The society aims to promote Indian culture on campus and celebrate India's major festivals, host Bollywood nights and organise social events regularly.
We also host an annual conference called LSE SU India Forum that brings together eminent personalities from India to deliver lectures on the big and contemporary issues in India.
Hindu Society LSESU Hindu Society explores the idea of Dharma through a series of religious, educational, charitable and social events.
We hold 2 events per week, so there is definitely something for everyone!
Indian National Student Association INSA aims to nurture leaders of tomorrow by providing a platform to ideate and discuss pertinent issues that affect India, while keeping students abreast of current events and happenings.
Students@LSE Blogs Follow Indian students Aarya , Aditya , Aishwarya , Ananya , Lavanya , Ragini , Sangeeta and Sanku as they blog about their journey at LSE.
The India Society is the largest and the most active India-focused society on campus.
LSESU Hindu Society explores the idea of Dharma through a series of religious, educational, charitable and social events.
INSA aims to nurture leaders of tomorrow by providing a platform to ideate and discuss pertinent issues that affect India, while keeping students abreast of current events and happenings.
Follow Indian students Aarya , Aditya , Aishwarya , Ananya , Lavanya , Ragini , Sangeeta and Sanku as they blog about their journey at LSE.
Equivalent in Indian Higher Secondary School Certificate/Standard 12 (from the CBSE - including the All India Senior School Certificate Examination - and CISCE boards only) with GCE A levels A-level grade Equivalent in Indian Higher Secondary School Certificate/Standard 12 (from the CBSE - including the All India Senior School Certificate Examination - and CISCE boards only) A*AA An overall average of 95 per cent or above, with 3 subjects at 95 per cent or above and 2 subjects at 90 per cent or above AAA An overall average of 90 per cent or above, with 5 subjects at 90 per cent or above AAB An overall average of 85 per cent or above.
One or more subjects may be specified at 90 per cent or above Mathematics A*/A A mark of 95 per cent in Mathematics for programmes requiring an 'A*' in A-level Mathematics.
A mark of 90 per cent in Mathematics for programmes requiring an 'A' in A-level Mathematics.
For programmes offered by our Department of Mathematics , Standard Maths is required.
For all other programmes that require the equivalent of A level Maths, Standard Maths is preferred but both Standard and Applied Maths are acceptable.
Applicants studying under other Indian exam boards should have at least 80-85% in each subject, together with one of our other accepted international qualifications .
An overall average of 95 per cent or above, with 3 subjects at 95 per cent or above and 2 subjects at 90 per cent or above
An overall average of 90 per cent or above, with 5 subjects at 90 per cent or above
An overall average of 85 per cent or above.
One or more subjects may be specified at 90 per cent or above
A mark of 95 per cent in Mathematics for programmes requiring an 'A*' in A-level Mathematics.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from India Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor's degree (BA, BSc, BCom or BTech) awarded after a minimum of three years of study, or the Bachelor of Medicine with a Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) of 3.3/4, 5/7, 6/8, 7/9 or 7.6/10.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first-class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor's degree (BA, BSc, BCom or BTEch) awarded after a minimum of three years of study, or the Bachelor of Medicine with a Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) of 3.5/4, 5.5/7, 6.5/8, 7.5/9 or 8.5/10.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require the 3-year LLB or 5-year joint BA/LLB, BBA/LLB or BCom/LLB degree with the different grades, depending on the institution.
Please contact the Graduate Admissions Office for further details.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree MA, MSc or MCom) awarded after a minimum of two years, or a master's in a professional subject awarded after a minimum of one-and-a-half-years) with a CPA/GPA of 3.3/4, 5/7, 6/8, 7/9, or 7.5/10.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor's degree (BA, BSc, BCom or BTech) awarded after a minimum of three years of study, or the Bachelor of Medicine with a Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) of 3.3/4, 5/7, 6/8, 7/9 or 7.6/10.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree MA, MSc or MCom) awarded after a minimum of two years, or a master's in a professional subject awarded after a minimum of one-and-a-half-years) with a CPA/GPA of 3.3/4, 5/7, 6/8, 7/9, or 7.5/10.
LSE Events in India LSE visits India regularly to meet with prospective students.
In 2018 and 2019 LSE has also held information sessions in Chennai, Kolkata and Hyderabad, Mumbai, Bengaluru and New Delhi.
LSE held discovery sessions in Kolkata , New Delhi , Chennai , Hyderabad and Mumbai in January and February 2020.
LSE visits India regularly to meet with prospective students.
Fri 1 Nov

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/indonesia:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 69 students from Indonesia, 14 at undergraduate level and 55 at graduate level.
Indonesian Society The Indonesian Society is a thriving community of Indonesians and those interested in Indonesia at the heart of LSE.
Our events are oriented for those who want to have fun and want to learn further about Indonesia.
The Indonesian Society is a thriving community of Indonesians and those interested in Indonesia at the heart of LSE.
STTB SMA The STTB SMA is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The STTB SMA is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Indonesia Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, we would normally require the Sarjana (S1) or bachelor (preferably where accredited with grade A) with an overall grade of B+ or a GPA of 3.3/4.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require the Sarjana II (S2) or magister, and expect overall grades of A- or a GPA of 3.7/4.
To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, we would normally require the Sarjana (S1) or bachelor (preferably where accredited with grade A) with an overall grade of B+ or a GPA of 3.3/4.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require the Sarjana II (S2) or magister, and expect overall grades of A- or a GPA of 3.7/4.
LSE Virtual Discovery Session for Indonesian Students LSE hosted a Discovery Session for students from Indonesia.
The recording of the event is available on our YouTube channel .
The session covered study options at LSE, the application process, student visas, career opportunities, and the scholarships available to Indonesian students.
LSE Events in Indonesia LSE visits Indonesia regularly to meet with prospective students.
In 2018 LSE held an information session in Jakarta.
LSE hosted a Discovery Session for students from Indonesia.
LSE visits Indonesia regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/iran:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 17 students from Iran, two at undergraduate level and 15 at graduate level.
Iranian qualifications The school-leaving qualifications from Iran (3 or 4 year High School Diploma) are not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The school-leaving qualifications from Iran (3 or 4 year High School Diploma) are not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Iran Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a karshenasi/licence (bachelor's) degree or general/professional doctorate with overall mark of 16/20.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor’s degree in law ( Karshenasi/Licence ) with an overall mark of A, or 4/4, or 17.0/20.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s degree (karshenasi ershad/fogh licence) or a specialised medical course with an overall mark of 16/20.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a karshenasi/licence (bachelor's) degree or general/professional doctorate with overall mark of 16/20.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s degree (karshenasi ershad/fogh licence) or a specialised medical course with an overall mark of 16/20.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/iraq:
In 2023, LSE welcomed one student from Iraq, at graduate level.
Iraq Certificate of Preparatory Education/Sixth Form Baccalauréat The Iraq Certificate of Preparatory Education and the Sixth Form Baccalauréat are not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Iraq Certificate of Preparatory Education and the Sixth Form Baccalauréat are not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Iraq Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor’s degree in medicine, dentistry, pharmacy, veterinary science, or architectural engineering from either a university or a technical college with 80 per cent (or very good).
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor’s degree in medicine, dentistry, pharmacy, veterinary science, or architectural engineering from either a university or a technical college with 80 per cent (or very good).

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/ireland:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 40 students from Ireland, six at undergraduate level and 34 at graduate level.
Irish Society The Irish Society is a place for the Irish, part Irish or those who wish they were Irish to meet up, socialise and enjoy the best craic on campus.
As a society we run a number of social events to run alongside the big sporting events like the Six nations, World Cup qualifiers and GAA games or you can attend one of our panel discussions which analyse the issues and history of the nation.
Then the highlight of the year is our St Patrick’s day celebrations which will make you feel at home right in the heart of London.
The Irish Society is a place for the Irish, part Irish or those who wish they were Irish to meet up, socialise and enjoy the best craic on campus.
Equivalency of the Irish Leaving Certificate with GCE A levels For 2025/26 onwards: A level grade Equivalent in the Irish Leaving Certificate A*AA Obtain H1 H1 H1 H2 H2 H2 (all at Higher Level) AAA Obtain H1 H1 H2 H2 H2 H2 (all at Higher Level) AAB Obtain H1 H2 H2 H2 H2 H2 (all at Higher Level) Mathematics A*/A Obtain H1 in Higher Level Mathematics.
If taking Applied Mathematics, obtain H1.
The Mathematics, Economics, Finance and Statistics departments require H1 in Applied Mathematics.
Irish Higher Certificate (NFQ 6) If you are taking the Higher Certificate (NFQ 6), we expect an overall grade of at least 60%.
You may also be requested to complete the Undergraduate Admissions Assessment (UGAA) before a final decision can be made on your application.
For 2025/26 onwards:
Obtain H1 H1 H1 H2 H2 H2 (all at Higher Level)
Obtain H1 H1 H2 H2 H2 H2 (all at Higher Level)
Obtain H1 H2 H2 H2 H2 H2 (all at Higher Level)
Obtain H1 in Higher Level Mathematics.
If you are taking the Higher Certificate (NFQ 6), we expect an overall grade of at least 60%.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Ireland Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor's honours degree with an upper second class honours (2:1) or a GPA of 3.2/4.2.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first-class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor's honours degree with a First, or a GPA of 3.68/4.2.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require a Bachelor of Laws (LLB), Bachelor of Civil Law (BCL) or Bachelor of Business and Law (BBL) with an average grade of 65% throughout years 2 and 3 (or 2,3 and 4), or GPA of 3.5/4.2.
Years spent abroad should are not considered in the average.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree and expect an overall mark of merit or a GPA of 3.2 or above.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor's honours degree with an upper second class honours (2:1) or a GPA of 3.2/4.2.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree and expect an overall mark of merit or a GPA of 3.2 or above.
LSE Events in Ireland LSE visits Ireland regularly to meet with prospective students.
In 2019 LSE held an information session in Dublin.
LSE visits Ireland regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/israel:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 18 students from Israel, at graduate level.
Israel Society The Israel Society is the natural home of all Israeli and those seeking to learn more about the Israeli entrepreneurial scene.
The Israel Society is the natural home of all Israeli and those seeking to learn more about the Israeli entrepreneurial scene.
Equivalency of Israeli Bagrut with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in Israeli Bagrut A*AA, AAA Obtain an overall average of 90 per cent or above, including three subjects studied at 5 unit level.
AAB Obtain an overall average of 85 per cent or above, including three subjects studied at 5 unit level.
Mathematics A*/A 90 or above in 5 unit Mathematics.
Please note that LSE will only consider requests to defer entry for a single academic year.
No exceptions will be made for those who apply prior to undertaking National Service that lasts more than one year.
Applicants hoping to join the School following the completion of two or more years of National Service should submit an application in the final year of their Service.
Obtain an overall average of 90 per cent or above, including three subjects studied at 5 unit level.
Obtain an overall average of 85 per cent or above, including three subjects studied at 5 unit level.
90 or above in 5 unit Mathematics.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Israel Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor's degree with an overall grade of 85 per cent.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first-class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor's degree with an overall grade of 90 per cent.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require a Bachelor of Laws with 87 per cent.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree (with thesis) with an overall mark of 85 per cent.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor's degree with an overall grade of 85 per cent.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree (with thesis) with an overall mark of 85 per cent.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/italy:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 240 students from Italy, 48 at undergraduate level and 192 at graduate level.
Italian Society The Italian Society promotes Italian culture on campus and raises awareness of issues concerning Italy and Europe.
The society offers guest speakers and events, Italian language classes and cultural festivities throughout the year to celebrate Italian heritage.
Our lectures touch on numerous aspects and issues facing Italy today.
We have welcomed Giorgio Napolitano and five Prime Ministers: Giuliano Amato, Massimo D’Alema, Romano Prodi, Enrico Letta and Paolo Gentiloni.
We offer free Italian classes for beginners and organise numerous social events including Italian ‘aperitivi', Pizza Parties, and joint parties with the Italian Societies of other Universities.
Students@LSE Blogs Follow Italian graduate student Sofia as she blogs about her journey at LSE.
The Italian Society promotes Italian culture on campus and raises awareness of issues concerning Italy and Europe.
Follow Italian graduate student Sofia as she blogs about her journey at LSE.
Equivalency of the Italian Diploma di Esame di Stato (formerly Diploma di Maturita) with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in the Italian Diploma di Esame di Stato (formerly Diploma di Maturita) A*AA Obtain at least 98 per cent overall AAA Obtain at least 95 per cent overall AAB Obtain at least 93 per cent overall Mathematics A*/A A*: 20/20 in the written exam or 10/10 in the final year of school in the required subject.
A: Achieve 19/20 in the written exam, or 9/10 in the final year of school in the required subject In terms of academic achievement, our entry requirements vary by programme, and are listed on the individual undergraduate degree programme webpages .
Obtain at least 98 per cent overall
Obtain at least 95 per cent overall
Obtain at least 93 per cent overall
A*: 20/20 in the written exam or 10/10 in the final year of school in the required subject.
A: Achieve 19/20 in the written exam, or 9/10 in the final year of school in the required subject
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Italy Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require the laurea with marks of at least 104/110.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first-class equivalent), we would normally require the laurea with marks of at least 110/110.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require the Laurea in Giurisprudenza or Laurea Magistrale with 110/110 con lode (with Honours).
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a corsi di laurea specialistica (LS)/ corsi di laurea magistrale (LM) with an overall mark of 106/110.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require the laurea with marks of at least 104/110.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a corsi di laurea specialistica (LS)/ corsi di laurea magistrale (LM) with an overall mark of 106/110.
LSE Events in Italy LSE visits Italy regularly to meet with prospective students.
In 2018 and 2019 LSE held information sessions in Rome and Milan.
LSE is hosting an online information session for prospective students from Italy on 11 June 2020 .
LSE visits Italy regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/ivory-coast:
In 2022, LSE welcomed four students from Ivory Coast, at graduate level.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Ivory Coast Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the master maîtrise, diplôme d’études approfondies or diplôme d'études supérieures spécialisées or diplome d'ingenieur with an overall grade of 14.0/20.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a UK taught master’s degree with an overall merit (at least 65 per cent) or its non-UK equivalent and a strong merit or its equivalent in the master’s dissertation in a subject relevant to the proposed research.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the master maîtrise, diplôme d’études approfondies or diplôme d'études supérieures spécialisées or diplome d'ingenieur with an overall grade of 14.0/20.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a UK taught master’s degree with an overall merit (at least 65 per cent) or its non-UK equivalent and a strong merit or its equivalent in the master’s dissertation in a subject relevant to the proposed research.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/jamaica:
In 2023, LSE welcomed three students from Jamaica, at graduate level.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Jamaica Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, we would normally require a good upper second class (2:1) bachelor's degree or higher from the University of Technology, the University of the West Indies (UWI), or from another accredited tertiary institution which offers accepted qualifications.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/japan:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 95 students from Japan, 29 at undergraduate level and 66 at graduate level.
Japan Society The Japan Society provides opportunities to experience the Japanese culture and supports Japanese students at LSE.
It is the perfect society to join if you want to experience Japanese culture, get information on careers in Japan and learn the Japanese language!
The Japan Society provides opportunities to experience the Japanese culture and supports Japanese students at LSE.
Japan Upper Secondary School Leaving Certificate The Upper Secondary School Leaving Certificate is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Upper Secondary School Leaving Certificate is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Japan Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor's degree (gakushi) with an overall mark of 80 per cent or a GPA of 3.3/4; or at least 50 per cent of grades at A or better (where S/A+ is the highest possible mark); or at least 50% of grades at B or better (where A is the highest possible mark).
Higher grades may sometimes be required from universities with which we are less familiar.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first-class equivalent), we would normally require a a bachelor's degree (gakushi, four-six years) from a highly regarded institution with an overall mark of 89 per cent, a GPA of 3.8/4, or, if no final grade is given, at least 65 per cent A grades.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require a Bachelor of Laws or Juris Doctor (JD) which fulfils at least ONE of the following conditions: Grading scale with S/A+ as highest mark: at least 60 per cent of credits at A grade or better; OR grading scale with A as highest mark; at least 60% of credits at B grade or better; or 85%; OR a GPA of 3.5/4 (if no letter-grade or percentage scale is given).
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's (shushi) degree.
From a highly regarded institution we would expect an overall mark of 80 per cent, a GPA of 3.5/4, or the majority of marks attained are grade A.
Applicants from other institutions can be considered with a mark of 89 per cent, or an overall A .
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor's degree (gakushi) with an overall mark of 80 per cent or a GPA of 3.3/4; or at least 50 per cent of grades at A or better (where S/A+ is the highest possible mark); or at least 50% of grades at B or better (where A is the highest possible mark).
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's (shushi) degree.
LSE Events in Japan LSE visits Japan regularly to meet with prospective students.
In 2018 LSE attended the QS World Grad School Tour Fair in Tokyo.
LSE visits Japan regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/jordan:
In 2023, LSE welcomed six students from Jordan, two at undergraduate level and four at graduate level.
Jordan Certificate of General Secondary Education / Certificate of Vocational Secondary Education The Jordan Certificate of General Secondary Education and the Certificate of Vocational Secondary Education are not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Jordan Certificate of General Secondary Education and the Certificate of Vocational Secondary Education are not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Jordan Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's degree from a highly regarded institution with an overall mark of very good, a CGPA of 3.5/4, or an overall mark of at least 80 per cent.
Degrees from other institutions will be considered on a case by case basis.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require the Bachelor of Laws (LLB) with an overall grade of A, a CGPA of 3.70, or an overall mark of at least 84 per cent.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s degree after two years of study from a highly regarded institution with an overall grade of 84 per cent or excellent.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's degree from a highly regarded institution with an overall mark of very good, a CGPA of 3.5/4, or an overall mark of at least 80 per cent.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s degree after two years of study from a highly regarded institution with an overall grade of 84 per cent or excellent.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/kazakhstan:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 13 students from Kazakhstan, seven at undergraduate level and six at graduate level.
Kazakhstan Society The objectives of the Kazakhstan Society are: to increase awareness of economic, political and social challenges that Kazakhstan faces by organising presentations and public lectures to encourage young proficient people to pursue career opportunities in Kazakhstan and prevent human capital outflow from the country by providing career advice and creating a student database that will be available to Kazakh businesses for recruitment purposes to create an environment for communication between Kazakh and non-Kazakh students by organizing intellectual and social activities such as quiz nights, formal dinners, trips.
The objectives of the Kazakhstan Society are:
Kazakhstan School-leaving certificate The school-leaving certificate from Kazakhstan is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The school-leaving certificate from Kazakhstan is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Kazakhstan Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, we would normally require the four year bakalavr with the majority of marks being "excellent", or an overall mark of 4.5/5 or a GPA of 3.5/4, or 3.8/4.3.
We can also accept the five year specialist diploma with an overall mark of 4.25/5.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require the magister with a minimum overall grade of 4/5.
To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, we would normally require the four year bakalavr with the majority of marks being "excellent", or an overall mark of 4.5/5 or a GPA of 3.5/4, or 3.8/4.3.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require the magister with a minimum overall grade of 4/5.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/kenya:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 25 students from Kenya, four at undergraduate level and 21 at graduate level.
Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education The Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Kenya Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's (honours) degree.
We would normally require a high 2:1, with an overall mark of 65 per cent (or B/B+ average, depending on the grading system), or a GPA of 3.3/4.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require a two-year master’s degree and expect a grade of Good or Credit, with an overall mark of merit (or B average).
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a two-year master's degree and expect a grade of good or credit, with an overall mark of 65 per cent (or B/B+ average).
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's (honours) degree.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a two-year master's degree and expect a grade of good or credit, with an overall mark of 65 per cent (or B/B+ average).
LSE Events in Kenya LSE visits Kenya regularly to meet with prospective students.
In 2018 LSE attended the British Council Fair in Nairobi.
LSE visits Kenya regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/kosovo:
In 2022, LSE welcomed one student from Kosovo, at graduate level.
Equivalency of the Kosovo Diplomë për kryerjen e shkollës së mesme të lartë (Diploma for High School Graduation with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in the Kosovo Diplomë për kryerjen e shkollës së mesme të lartë (Diploma for High School Graduation A*AA, AAA, AAB 5 overall Mathematics A*/A 5 in Mathematics If you are studying the above qualification and your application is competitive, you may also be requested to complete the Undergraduate Admissions Assessment (UGAA) before a final decision can be made on your application.
5 overall
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Kosovo Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's degree (awarded after 2007 obtained from a recognised university) with an overall mark of 8/10, or a degree with a GPA of 3.5/4 from the American University of Kosovo.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a magjistër and expect an overall mark of 9/10.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's degree (awarded after 2007 obtained from a recognised university) with an overall mark of 8/10, or a degree with a GPA of 3.5/4 from the American University of Kosovo.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a magjistër and expect an overall mark of 9/10.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/kiribati:
Undergraduate entry requirements for applicants from Kiribati Please view information on accepted international qualifications .
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Kiribati Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the equivalent of an upper second-class UK bachelor’s honours degree.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/kuwait:
In 2023, LSE welcomed six students from Kuwait, at graduate level.
Kuwait Shahadat-al-thanawia-al-a'ama The school-leaving qualification in Kuwait (shahadat-al-thanawia-al-a'ama) is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The school-leaving qualification in Kuwait (shahadat-al-thanawia-al-a'ama) is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Kuwait Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's degree with a minimum overall GPA of 3.5/4.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor’s degree in law with an overall mark of 87 per cent or GPA of 3.5/4.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s degree when awarded as advanced specialisation on the basis of a bachelor’s degree, and expect an overall GPA of 3.5/4.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's degree with a minimum overall GPA of 3.5/4.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s degree when awarded as advanced specialisation on the basis of a bachelor’s degree, and expect an overall GPA of 3.5/4.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/kyrgyzstan:
In 2023, LSE welcomed one student from Kyrgyzstan, at graduate level.
Kyrgyzstan Certificate of Completed Secondary Education The Certificate of Completed Secondary Education is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Certificate of Completed Secondary Education is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Kyrgyzstan Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, we would normally require the magister/specialist diploma (after 1991) with an overall mark of 4/5, a GPA of 3.3/4 or overall mark of 'credit' (zachet).
Applicants solely with a specialist diploma or bakalavr (before 1991) may be considered with exceptional marks.
To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, we would normally require the magister/specialist diploma (after 1991) with an overall mark of 4/5, a GPA of 3.3/4 or overall mark of 'credit' (zachet).

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/laos-pdr:
In 2023, LSE welcomed one student from Laos PDR, at graduate level.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Laos PDR Taught master's programmes (MSc/MA/MPA/LLM) For further information on entry requirements please contact the Graduate Admissions Office .

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/latvia:
In 2023, LSE welcomed two students from Latvia, at graduate level.
The Latvian Atestats par Visparejo Videjo Izglitibu (Certificate of General Education) The Latvian Atestats par Visparejo Videjo Izglitibu (Certificate of General Education) is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Latvian Atestats par Visparejo Videjo Izglitibu (Certificate of General Education) is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Latvia Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the bakalaurs.
If you completed your degree prior to 2000 we would normally require the magistrs.
In either case we would normally require an overall mark of 8/10.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a magistra diploma (master's degree) when awarded after 2000 and expect an overall mark of 8/10.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the bakalaurs.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a magistra diploma (master's degree) when awarded after 2000 and expect an overall mark of 8/10.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/lebanon:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 20 students from Lebanon, 9 at undergraduate level and 11 at graduate level.
Lebanese Society In the Lebanese Society we plan to make everyone feel included, even if you may not be Lebanese and just want to discover and learn about Lebanon and the Lebanese people!
In the Lebanese Society we plan to make everyone feel included, even if you may not be Lebanese and just want to discover and learn about Lebanon and the Lebanese people!
Lebanese Baccalauréat The Lebanese Baccalauréat is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Lebanese Baccalauréat is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Lebanon Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a maitrise or four year bachelor's degree/licence with an overall mark of 16/20, 80 per cent, or CGPA of 3.3/4.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a diplôme d’etudes approfondies or a master’s and expect an overall mark of 80 per cent or a GPA 3.5/4.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a maitrise or four year bachelor's degree/licence with an overall mark of 16/20, 80 per cent, or CGPA of 3.3/4.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a diplôme d’etudes approfondies or a master’s and expect an overall mark of 80 per cent or a GPA 3.5/4.
LSE Events in Lebanon LSE visits Lebanon regularly to meet with prospective students.
In 2018 LSE attended the QS World Grad School Tour Fair in Beirut.
LSE visits Lebanon regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/lesotho:
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Lesotho Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme with a minimum entry requirement of a good upper second class (2:1) bachelor's degree, we would normally require a master’s degree from the National University of Lesotho, with a 2:1, 70 per cent or B.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme with a minimum entry requirement of a good upper second class (2:1) bachelor's degree, we would normally require a master’s degree from the National University of Lesotho, with a 2:1, 70 per cent or B.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/liberia:
In 2022, LSE welcomed two students from Liberia, at graduate level.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Liberia Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require master’s degree from the University of Liberia or Cuttington University, with an overall grade of B+, 85 per cent, or a GPA of 3.5/4.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a UK taught master’s degree with an overall merit (at least 65 per cent) or its non-UK equivalent and a strong merit or its equivalent in the master’s dissertation in a subject relevant to the proposed research.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require master’s degree from the University of Liberia or Cuttington University, with an overall grade of B+, 85 per cent, or a GPA of 3.5/4.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a UK taught master’s degree with an overall merit (at least 65 per cent) or its non-UK equivalent and a strong merit or its equivalent in the master’s dissertation in a subject relevant to the proposed research.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/libya:
In 2022, LSE welcomed one student from Libya, at graduate level.
Libya Secondary Education Certificates The Secondary Education Certificates is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Secondary Education Certificates is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Libya Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a master's degree from a recognised university, with an overall mark of 70 per cent or Good.
We would also consider a bachelor's degree in architecture, engineering or medicine from a recognised university, with an overall mark of 70 per cent or Good.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a master's degree from a recognised university, with an overall mark of 70 per cent or Good.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/lithuania:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 10 students from Lithuania, five at undergraduate level and five at graduate level.
Equivalency of the Lithuanian Brandos Atestatas Maturity Certificate with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in the Lithuanian Brandos Atestatas Maturity Certificate A*AA Award of the Brandos Atestatas with an overall average of 9.5 in the School Matura Examinations, and 95%, 90%, 90% in three State Examinations AAA Award of the Brandos Atestatas with an overall average of 9.5 in the School Matura Examinations, and 90%, 90%, 90% in three State Examinations ABB Award of the Brandos Atestatas with an overall average of 9.0 in the School Matura Examinations, and 90%, 90%, 85% in three State Examinations Mathematics A*/A A* Obtain at least 95% in Extended A (isplestinis) Mathematics A - Obtain at least 90% in Extended A (isplestinis) Mathematics If you are studying the above qualification and your application is competitive, you may also be requested to complete the Undergraduate Admissions Assessment (UGAA) before a final decision can be made on your application.
Award of the Brandos Atestatas with an overall average of 9.5 in the School Matura Examinations, and 95%, 90%, 90% in three State Examinations
Award of the Brandos Atestatas with an overall average of 9.5 in the School Matura Examinations, and 90%, 90%, 90% in three State Examinations
Award of the Brandos Atestatas with an overall average of 9.0 in the School Matura Examinations, and 90%, 90%, 85% in three State Examinations
A* Obtain at least 95% in Extended A (isplestinis) Mathematics
A - Obtain at least 90% in Extended A (isplestinis) Mathematics
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Lithuania Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the bakalauro diplomas (awarded after a minimum of four years, post-2000), the profesinis bakalauras, or the specialiosis profesines studijos, with an overall mark of 8/10 or 80 per cent.
Pre-2001, we require the magistro diplomas (awarded after a minimum of one year) with an overall mark of 8.0/10 or 75 per cent.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor’s degree and a master’s degree in law (Magistro Laipsnis or Magistras).
We require an overall average of 8.0/10 in the bachelor’s degree, and 9.0/10 in the master’s.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a magistro diplomas (awarded after a minimum of one and a half years, post-2000) and expect an overall mark of 8/10.
Pre-2001, we require a daktaras.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the bakalauro diplomas (awarded after a minimum of four years, post-2000), the profesinis bakalauras, or the specialiosis profesines studijos, with an overall mark of 8/10 or 80 per cent.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a magistro diplomas (awarded after a minimum of one and a half years, post-2000) and expect an overall mark of 8/10.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/luxembourg:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 32 students from Luxembourg, six at undergraduate level and 26 at graduate level.
Equivalency of the Luxembourg Diplôme de Fin d’Etudes Secondaires with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in the Luxembourg Diplôme de Fin d’Etudes Secondaires A*AA Obtain an overall result of Tres Bien (at least 54/60) AAA Obtain an overall result of Tres Bien (at least 52/60) AAA, AAB Obtain an overall result of Tres Bien (at least 50/60) Mathematics A* Obtain at least 58 in Mathematics (Mathematics I &II) Mathematics A Obtain at least 52 in Mathematics (Mathematics I &II) In terms of academic achievement, our entry requirements vary by programme, and are listed on the individual undergraduate degree programme webpages .
Obtain an overall result of Tres Bien (at least 54/60)
Obtain an overall result of Tres Bien (at least 52/60)
Obtain an overall result of Tres Bien (at least 50/60)
Obtain at least 58 in Mathematics (Mathematics I &II)
Obtain at least 52 in Mathematics (Mathematics I &II)
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Luxembourg Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor’s degree (started after 2003) from the University of Luxembourg.
We require marks of 15/20.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree (started after 2002) and we expect an overall mark of 14/20.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor’s degree (started after 2003) from the University of Luxembourg.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree (started after 2002) and we expect an overall mark of 14/20.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/macau:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 11 students from Macau, four at undergraduate level and seven at graduate level.
Macau Certificate of Higher Secondary Education The Certificate of Higher Secondary Education is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Certificate of Higher Secondary Education is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Macau Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's degree with a GPA of 3.5/4.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor’s degree in law with a GPA of 3.6/4.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s degree and expect an overall GPA of 3.5/4.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's degree with a GPA of 3.5/4.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s degree and expect an overall GPA of 3.5/4.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/madagascar:
In 2023, LSE welcomed two students from Madagascar, at graduate level.
Baccalaureat de l’Enseignement du Second Degre The Baccalaureat de l’Enseignement du Second Degre is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Baccalaureat de l’Enseignement du Second Degre is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Madagascar Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the Diplome d'Ingenieur, Diplôme d'études Approfondies, Maîtrise, Diplôme de Magistère (or Master 1) or Diplome de Master (Master 2) with an overall grade of 14/20.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the Diplome d'Ingenieur, Diplôme d'études Approfondies, Maîtrise, Diplôme de Magistère (or Master 1) or Diplome de Master (Master 2) with an overall grade of 14/20.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/malawi:
In 2022, LSE welcomed one student from Malawi, at graduate level.
Malawi School Certificate of Education or Cambridge Overseas Higher School Certificate Neither Malawi School Certificate of Education nor the Cambridge Overseas Higher School Certificate are acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Neither Malawi School Certificate of Education nor the Cambridge Overseas Higher School Certificate are acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Malawi Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a master's degree from the University of Malawi or Mzuzu University with an overall mark of 70 per cent or 5/6.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a master's degree from the University of Malawi or Mzuzu University with an overall mark of 70 per cent or 5/6.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/malaysia:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 281 students from Malaysia, 245 at undergraduate level and 36 at graduate level.
Malaysia Club The Malaysia Club is for Malaysians studying at the School, we aim to act as a platform to bring all Malaysian students together as a community, be it celebrating a festival or to engage in intellectual discourse.
Moreover, we actively promote the Malaysian culture amongst the international student community at LSE.
Students@LSE Blog Follow Malaysian graduate student Li Xuan as she blogs about her journey at LSE.
The Malaysia Club is for Malaysians studying at the School, we aim to act as a platform to bring all Malaysian students together as a community, be it celebrating a festival or to engage in intellectual discourse.
Follow Malaysian graduate student Li Xuan as she blogs about her journey at LSE.
Equivalency of the Sijil Tinggi Persekolahan Malaysia (STPM) and Malaysia Matriculation Programme/Matrikulasi to GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in Sijil Tinggi Persekolahan Malaysia (STPM) A*AA, AAA AAA AAB AAB Mathematics A*/A Mathematics grade A A level grade Equivalent in Malaysia Matriculation Programme/Matrikulasi A*AA Complete the Malaysia Matriculation Certificate with a cumulative GPA of at least 3.65 with A, A-, A- or 4.00, 3.67 and 3.67 in three key subjects.
AAA Complete the Malaysia Matriculation Certificate with a cumulative GPA of at least 3.65 with A-, A-, A- or 3.67 in three key subjects.
AAB Complete the Malaysia Matriculation Certificate with a cumulative GPA of at least 3.5 with A-, A-, B+ or 3.67, 3.67 and 3.33 in three key subjects.
Mathematics A*/A A*: Grade A in Maths A: Grade A- in Maths If you are studying the above qualification and your application is competitive, you may also be requested to complete the Undergraduate Admissions Assessment (UGAA) before a final decision can be made on your application.
Mathematics grade A
Complete the Malaysia Matriculation Certificate with a cumulative GPA of at least 3.65 with A, A-, A- or 4.00, 3.67 and 3.67 in three key subjects.
Complete the Malaysia Matriculation Certificate with a cumulative GPA of at least 3.65 with A-, A-, A- or 3.67 in three key subjects.
Complete the Malaysia Matriculation Certificate with a cumulative GPA of at least 3.5 with A-, A-, B+ or 3.67, 3.67 and 3.33 in three key subjects.
A*: Grade A in Maths A: Grade A- in Maths
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Malaysia Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor's degree from a public university or a government accredited course at a private university with a 2:1, an average grade of B+ or a GPA of 3.3/4.
To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme (first-class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor’s degree from a public university or a government accredited course at a private university with a First, an average grade of 75 per cent, or a GPA of 3.7/4.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require a Bachelor of Laws degree, with a 2:1 or a GPA of 3.5/4.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree with a grade of B+ or a GPA of 3.3/4.
To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor's degree from a public university or a government accredited course at a private university with a 2:1, an average grade of B+ or a GPA of 3.3/4.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree with a grade of B+ or a GPA of 3.3/4.
LSE Virtual Discovery Session for Malaysian Students LSE hosted a Discovery Session for students from Malaysia.
The session covered study options at LSE, the application process, student visas, career opportunities, and the scholarships available to Malaysian students.
LSE Events in the Malaysia LSE regularly visits Malaysia to meet with prospective students Sign up to our mailing list to hear about our future events near you.
LSE hosted a Discovery Session for students from Malaysia.
LSE regularly visits Malaysia to meet with prospective students Sign up to our mailing list to hear about our future events near you.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/maldives:
In 2023, LSE welcomed five students from the Maldives, two at undergraduate level and three at graduate level.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from the Maldives Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's degree from the Maldives National University with a GPA of 3.5/4.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's degree from the Maldives National University with a GPA of 3.5/4.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/mali:
Undergraduate entry requirements for applicants from Mali Please view information on accepted international qualifications .
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Mali Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the equivalent of an upper second-class UK bachelor’s honours degree.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/malta:
In 2023, LSE welcomed three students from Malta, two at undergraduate level and one at graduate level.
Equivalency of the Malta Matriculation and Secondary Education Certificate (MATSEC) with GCE A levels For 2025/26 onwards: A level grade Equivalent in the Malta Matriculation and Secondary Education Certificate (MATSEC) A*AA Award of the Matriculation Certificate with grades AA in two Advanced Level subjects and AAA at intermediate level, excluding Systems of Knowledge.
See generally preferred Advanced Level subjects AAA Award of the Matriculation Certificate with grades AA in two Advanced Level subjects and AAB at intermediate level, excluding Systems of Knowledge.
See generally preferred Advanced Level subjects AAB Award of the Matriculation Certificate with grades AA in two Advanced Level subjects and ABB at Intermediate Level, excluding Systems of Knowledge.
See generally preferred Advanced Level subjects Mathematics A*/A Maths A at Advanced Level.
Award of the Matriculation Certificate with grades AA in two Advanced Level subjects and AAA at intermediate level, excluding Systems of Knowledge.
See generally preferred Advanced Level subjects
Award of the Matriculation Certificate with grades AA in two Advanced Level subjects and AAB at intermediate level, excluding Systems of Knowledge.
Award of the Matriculation Certificate with grades AA in two Advanced Level subjects and ABB at Intermediate Level, excluding Systems of Knowledge.
Maths A at Advanced Level.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Malta Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a four year honours degree with an overall mark of 70 per cent, 2A or upper second class overall.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require the Bachelor of Laws (LLB) degree, with a 2.1 and an overall average of 73 per cent.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree and expect a merit overall.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a four year honours degree with an overall mark of 70 per cent, 2A or upper second class overall.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree and expect a merit overall.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/mauritania:
Undergraduate entry requirements for applicants from Mauritania Please view information on accepted international qualifications .
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Mauritania Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the Maîtrise or master with an overall grade of 14/20.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the Maîtrise or master with an overall grade of 14/20.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/mauritius:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 13 students from Mauritius, nine at undergraduate level and four at graduate level.
Equivalency of Mauritius Cambridge Higher School Certificate A level grade Equivalent in Cambridge Overseas Higher School Certificate A*AA, AAA, AAB Equivalent to A levels Mathematics A*/A Mathematics A*/A In terms of academic achievement, our entry requirements vary by programme, and are listed on the individual undergraduate degree programme webpages .
Equivalent to A levels
Mathematics A*/A
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Mauritius Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's degree from a recognised higher education institution, with a 2:1, 60 per cent or B.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s degree and expect a merit.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's degree from a recognised higher education institution, with a 2:1, 60 per cent or B.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s degree and expect a merit.
LSE Events in Mauritius LSE visits Mauritius regularly to meet with prospective students.
In 2019 LSE held an information session in Mauritius.
LSE visits Mauritius regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/mexico:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 52 students from Mexico, four at undergraduate level and 48 at graduate level.
Mexican Society The LSE SU Mexican Society is a cultural society geared towards the social integration of its members and the promotion of links with the Mexican community in the UK.
Students@LSE Blogs Follow Mexican graduate student Mauricio as he blogs about his journey at LSE.
The LSE SU Mexican Society is a cultural society geared towards the social integration of its members and the promotion of links with the Mexican community in the UK.
Follow Mexican graduate student Mauricio as he blogs about his journey at LSE.
Mexico Bachillerato The Mexico Bachillerato is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Mexico Bachillerato is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Mexico Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (2:1, upper second class equivalent), we would normally require the título de licenciado or título (profesional) de [subject area], obtained after four years of study.
Grades required are 8.5/10 or 85 per cent depending on the scale used by individual institutions.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first class equivalent), we would normally require overall grades of 9.0/10, or 90 per cent, depending on the scale used by individual institutions.
To be considered for admission to a law master's programme, we would normally require a Licenciado en Derecho with an overall grade of 8.6/10 or 86%.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a grado/título de maestro/maestría from a highly regarded institution and expect a minimum overall mark of 8.5/10 or 85 per cent.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (2:1, upper second class equivalent), we would normally require the título de licenciado or título (profesional) de [subject area], obtained after four years of study.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a grado/título de maestro/maestría from a highly regarded institution and expect a minimum overall mark of 8.5/10 or 85 per cent.
LSE Events in Mexico LSE visits Mexico regularly to meet with prospective students.
In 2018 and 2019 LSE held information sessions in Mexico City.
LSE visits Mexico regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/micronesia:
Undergraduate entry requirements for applicants from Micronesia Please view information on accepted international qualifications .
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Micronesia Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the equivalent of an upper second-class UK bachelor’s honours degree.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/moldova:
In 2023, LSE welcomed two students from Moldova, one at undergraduate level and one at graduate level.
Moldova Diploma de Bacalaureat The Diploma de Bacalaureat is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Diploma de Bacalaureat is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Moldova Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require either a post-Bologna diploma de licenta (started after 2005) or the pre-Bologna diploma de magistru (awarded before 2005) with grades of 8 or above.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a diploma de magistru and expect an overall grade of 9/10.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require either a post-Bologna diploma de licenta (started after 2005) or the pre-Bologna diploma de magistru (awarded before 2005) with grades of 8 or above.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a diploma de magistru and expect an overall grade of 9/10.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/monaco:
In 2023, LSE welcomed two students from Monaco, one at undergraduate level and one at graduate level.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Monaco Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme with a minimum entry requirement of a good upper second class (2:1) bachelor's degree, we would normally require a bachelor’s degree with a GPA of 3.3/4 or a Grade de licence with a mark of 14/20, from a recognised institution.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require require a master’s degree or Grade de master from a recognised institution and expect a GPA of 3.5/4 or a mark of 14/20.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme with a minimum entry requirement of a good upper second class (2:1) bachelor's degree, we would normally require a bachelor’s degree with a GPA of 3.3/4 or a Grade de licence with a mark of 14/20, from a recognised institution.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require require a master’s degree or Grade de master from a recognised institution and expect a GPA of 3.5/4 or a mark of 14/20.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/mongolia:
In 2023, LSE welcomed three students from Mongolia, at graduate level.
Mongolia School Leaving Certificate The School Leaving Certificate (Gerchilgee) is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The School Leaving Certificate (Gerchilgee) is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Mongolia Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a master's or specialist diploma with an overall grade of 85 per cent, or B+ or GPA of 3.4/4.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a master's or specialist diploma with an overall grade of 85 per cent, or B+ or GPA of 3.4/4.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/montenegro:
In 2023, LSE welcomed two students from Montenegro, one at undergraduate level and one at graduate level.
Equivalency of Montengro Maturski ispit / Diploma o zavrsenoj srednjoj skoli (Secondary School Leaving Diploma from a general gymnasia school, not a vocational school) with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in Montengro Maturski ispit / Diploma o zavrsenoj srednjoj skoli (Secondary School Leaving Diploma from a general gymansia school) A*AA Complete the Secondary School Leaving Diploma with an overall score of 5 AAA Complete the Secondary School Leaving Diploma with an overall score of 4.5 AAB Complete the Secondary School Leaving Diploma with an overall score of 4 Mathematics A*/A 5 in Mathematics If you are studying the above qualification and your application is competitive, you may also be requested to complete the Undergraduate Admissions Assessment (UGAA) before a final decision can be made on your application.
Complete the Secondary School Leaving Diploma with an overall score of 5
Complete the Secondary School Leaving Diploma with an overall score of 4.5
Complete the Secondary School Leaving Diploma with an overall score of 4
5 in Mathematics
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Montenegro Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a post-Bologna bachelor degree (diploma o zavrsenim osnovnim akademskim studijama / diploma primenjenih osnovnih studija) or the pre-Bologna diploma visokog obrazovanja.
We require an overall mark of 9/10 or B.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a post-Bologna bachelor degree (diploma o zavrsenim osnovnim akademskim studijama / diploma primenjenih osnovnih studija) or the pre-Bologna diploma visokog obrazovanja.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/montserrat:
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Montserrat (Caribbean Entry) Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, we would normally require a good upper second class (2:1) bachelor's degree or higher from the University of Technology, the University of the West Indies (UWI), or from another accredited tertiary institution which offers accepted qualifications.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/morocco:
In 2023, LSE welcomed four students from Morocco, at graduate level.
Moroccan Society The Moroccan Society aims to promote Moroccan tradition and culture whilst increasing socio-economic and political awareness.
It also aims to engage LSE students whatever their background.
The Moroccan Society aims to promote Moroccan tradition and culture whilst increasing socio-economic and political awareness.
Equivalency of Moroccan Diplôme du Baccalauréat /Baccalauréat de l'Enseignement secondaire with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in Moroccan Diplôme du Baccalauréat /Baccalauréat de l'Enseignement secondaire A*AA, AAA Obtain at least 18 overall AAB Obtain at least 17 overall Mathematics A*/A Obtain 18 in Mathematics If you are studying the above qualification and your application is competitive, you may also be requested to complete the Undergraduate Admissions Assessment (UGAA) before a final decision can be made on your application.
Obtain at least 18 overall
Obtain at least 17 overall
Obtain 18 in Mathematics
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Morocco Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the licence, licence d’études fondamentales, licence professionnelle, diplôme d’ingénieur d’état or diplôme d’études supérieures spécialisées, with an overall mark of 14/20, or a GPA of 3.5/4.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require the master / master spécialisé or the diplôme d'études supérieures approfondies and expect an overall mark of 14/20.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the licence, licence d’études fondamentales, licence professionnelle, diplôme d’ingénieur d’état or diplôme d’études supérieures spécialisées, with an overall mark of 14/20, or a GPA of 3.5/4.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require the master / master spécialisé or the diplôme d'études supérieures approfondies and expect an overall mark of 14/20.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/mozambique:
In 2023, LSE welcomed one student from Mozambique, at graduate level.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Mozambique Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a licenciado/licenciatura or mestre with an overall mark of 14/20.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a licenciado/licenciatura or mestre with an overall mark of 14/20.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/namibia:
In 2023, LSE welcomed three students from Namibia, at graduate level.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Namibia Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a Bachelor's (Honours) degree (when awarded after 2008, and which will either be a four-year degree or a one-year degree completed after a three-year Bachelor's degree), a Professional Bachelor's degree (when awarded after 2008), or a Master's degree, with an overall mark of 70 per cent.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a Bachelor's (Honours) degree (when awarded after 2008, and which will either be a four-year degree or a one-year degree completed after a three-year Bachelor's degree), a Professional Bachelor's degree (when awarded after 2008), or a Master's degree, with an overall mark of 70 per cent.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/nepal:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 14 students from Nepal, four at undergraduate level and 10 at graduate level.
Nepalese Society The LSESU Nepalese Society stands to promote, educate and involve students at LSE in appreciating just about anything Nepali.
We organise many great events and activities from delicious Nepalese cuisine nights to interesting and informative talks from a range of speakers.
The LSESU Nepalese Society stands to promote, educate and involve students at LSE in appreciating just about anything Nepali.
Nepal Higher School Certificate The Higher School Certificate is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Higher School Certificate is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Nepal Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a master's degree completed following a three year bachelor’s degree, with an overall mark of 80 per cent or 3.7/4.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a four year bachelor degree and we expect marks of 80 per cent.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a master's degree completed following a three year bachelor’s degree, with an overall mark of 80 per cent or 3.7/4.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a four year bachelor degree and we expect marks of 80 per cent.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/netherlands:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 131 students from Netherlands, 15 at undergraduate level and 116 at graduate level.
Dutch and Flemish The Dutch and Flemish Society is a new society at LSE, founded by Dutch and Flemish undergraduate students.
Our main aim is to build a tight community of Dutch speaking students.
We do this by organising socials, networking events, cultural events, and speaker events.
We aim to be an open society, so everyone who is interested in the culture is more than welcome to join!
Students@LSE Blogs Follow Dutch undergraduate student Maja as she blogs about her journey at LSE.
The Dutch and Flemish Society is a new society at LSE, founded by Dutch and Flemish undergraduate students.
Follow Dutch undergraduate student Maja as she blogs about her journey at LSE.
Equivalency of the Netherlands Voorbereidend Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs (VWO) Diploma with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in the Netherlands Voorbereidend Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs (VWO) Diploma A*AA, AAA Complete your VWO with at least 8.0 overall AAB Complete your VWO with at least 7.5 overall Mathematics A* Grade 9.0 in Mathematics B For programmes that require or prefer Further Mathematics, Mathematics D is advantageous.
Mathematics A Grade 8.0 in Mathematics B In terms of academic achievement, our entry requirements vary by programme, and are listed on the individual undergraduate degree programme webpages .
Complete your VWO with at least 8.0 overall
Complete your VWO with at least 7.5 overall
Grade 9.0 in Mathematics B
For programmes that require or prefer Further Mathematics, Mathematics D is advantageous.
Grade 8.0 in Mathematics B
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from the Netherlands Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require either the post-Bologna bachelor’s degree (awarded from 2002) or the pre-Bologna Doctoraal (awarded before 2002) with an average of 7.0/10.
For degrees graded on a 4.0 GPA scale, we would normally require an overall GPA of 3.0.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first-class equivalent), we would normally require either the post-Bologna bachelor’s degree (awarded from 2002) or the pre-Bologna Doctoraal (awarded before 2002) with an average of 8.0/10.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor’s degree in law with an overall average of 7.5/10.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree with marks of 7.0 or 3.3/4.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require either the post-Bologna bachelor’s degree (awarded from 2002) or the pre-Bologna Doctoraal (awarded before 2002) with an average of 7.0/10.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree with marks of 7.0 or 3.3/4.
LSE Events in the Netherlands LSE visits the Netherlands regularly to meet with prospective students.
In 2019 LSE held an information session in Amsterdam.
LSE visits the Netherlands regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/new-zealand:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 16 students from New Zealand, eight at undergraduate level and eight at graduate level.
Australia and New Zealand Society ANZoc is a community for Australians and New Zealanders to enjoy and share their cultures at LSE!
ANZoc is a community for Australians and New Zealanders to enjoy and share their cultures at LSE!
Equivalency of New Zealand National Certificate of Educational Achievement (NCEA) Level 3 / Year 13 with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in New Zealand National Certificate of Educational Achievement (NCEA) Level 3 A*AA, AAA, AAB An overall of at least 80 credits in the NCEA Level 3, with 3 subjects (minimum 18 credits in each subject) endorsed at Excellent in your Year 13 Level 3 NCEA.
Mathematics A*/A Excellent in at least 18 credits in Mathematics In terms of academic achievement, our entry requirements vary by programme, and are listed on the individual undergraduate degree programme webpages .
An overall of at least 80 credits in the NCEA Level 3, with 3 subjects (minimum 18 credits in each subject) endorsed at Excellent in your Year 13 Level 3 NCEA.
Excellent in at least 18 credits in Mathematics
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from New Zealand Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor's (with honours) degree with a 2:1 or an overall mark of B+ or 6.0/9.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first-class equivalent), we would normally require a three-year bachelor’s degree or a four-year bachelor’s (honours) degree at first class, or an overall mark of A- or 7.0/9.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require a four-year bachelor’s (honours) degree in law (LLB) (or a five-year joint LLB and BA/BSc/BCom) with a B+ average or 6.0/9.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree awarded after an honours degree with an overall grade of merit with 65 per cent.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor's (with honours) degree with a 2:1 or an overall mark of B+ or 6.0/9.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree awarded after an honours degree with an overall grade of merit with 65 per cent.
LSE Events in New Zealand LSE visits New Zealand regularly to meet with prospective students.
In 2018 LSE held information sessions in Auckland, Christchurch and Wellington.
LSE visits New Zealand regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/nicaragua:
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Nicaragua Taught master's programmes (MSc/MA/MPA/LLM) To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the Licenciado or Professional title (awarded after four years study) with an overall mark of 90 per cent, or the Maestria with a minimum mark of 90 per cent can also be considered as an equivalent to a UK bachelor's degree.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the Licenciado or Professional title (awarded after four years study) with an overall mark of 90 per cent, or the Maestria with a minimum mark of 90 per cent can also be considered as an equivalent to a UK bachelor's degree.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/nigeria:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 38 students from Nigeria, eight at undergraduate level and 30 at graduate level.
Nigeria Senior School Certificate The Nigeria Senior School Certificate is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Nigeria Senior School Certificate is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Nigeria Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's degree from a highly regarded institution with an overall grade of 2:1 or a GPA of 4.0/5, or 3.3/4.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor’s degree in law with First class with an overall GPA of 3.5/4, 4.5/5 or 6.0/7.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree from a highly regarded institution and expect an overall grade of 65 per cent or above.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's degree from a highly regarded institution with an overall grade of 2:1 or a GPA of 4.0/5, or 3.3/4.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree from a highly regarded institution and expect an overall grade of 65 per cent or above.
LSE Events in Nigeria LSE visits Nigeria regularly to meet with prospective students.
In 2018 LSE attended the British Council Fair in Lagos.
LSE visits Nigeria regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/north-korea:
In 2023, LSE welcomed one student from North Korea, at undergraduate level.
Korean Society The Korean Society was first established in 1999 and has been growing rapidly ever since.
The Korean Society now represents over 250 members at LSE amid increased interests in Korean political, economic and social affairs.
Since its creation, the fundamental aim of our society has been to provide students with various ways to experience Korea, promoting wider interests in the Korean economy, politics and culture, as well as supporting the Korean student population at LSE.
Korean Entertainment Society The Korean Entertainment Society brings together people with an interest in the Korean entertainment industry as it gains popularity across the world.
We organise a wide range of events, including: K-Pop quizzes, movie screenings, restaurant outings, karaoke, K-Pop dance lessons and clubbing.
Korea Future Association The Korea Future Association aims to promote an interesting, in-depth analysis of political, economic and social issues in Korea and East Asia.
We hold annual forums as well as special lectures.
The Korean Society was first established in 1999 and has been growing rapidly ever since.
The Korean Entertainment Society brings together people with an interest in the Korean entertainment industry as it gains popularity across the world.
The Korea Future Association aims to promote an interesting, in-depth analysis of political, economic and social issues in Korea and East Asia.
Undergraduate entry requirements for applicants from North Korea Please view information on accepted international qualifications .
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from North Korean Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the equivalent of an upper second-class UK bachelor’s honours degree.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/macedonia:
In 2023, LSE welcomed one student from North Macedonia, at graduate level.
Equivalency of the North Macedonian Secondary School Leaving Diploma/Matura with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in the North Macedonian Secondary School Leaving Diploma/Matura A*AA, AAA Complete the Secondary School Leaving Diploma with an overall grade of 5 AAB Complete the Secondary School Leaving Diploma with an overall grade of 4 Mathematics A*/A Score 5 in Mathematics If you are studying the above qualification and your application is competitive, you may also be requested to complete the Undergraduate Admissions Assessment (UGAA) before a final decision can be made on your application.
Complete the Secondary School Leaving Diploma with an overall grade of 5
Complete the Secondary School Leaving Diploma with an overall grade of 4
Score 5 in Mathematics
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from North Macedonia Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the post-Bologna bachelor degree (started after 2003) or the visoko obrazovanja V11/1 with an overall mark of 9/10 or B.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the post-Bologna bachelor degree (started after 2003) or the visoko obrazovanja V11/1 with an overall mark of 9/10 or B.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/norway:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 49 students from Norway, nine at undergraduate level and 40 at graduate level.
Students@LSE Blogs Follow Norwegian graduate student Miranda as she blogs about her journey at LSE.
Follow Norwegian graduate student Miranda as she blogs about her journey at LSE.
Equivalency of Norwegian Vitnemål fra den Videregående Skole / Vitnemål for Videregående Opplæring with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in Norwegian Vitnemål fra den Videregående Skole / Vitnemål for Videregående Opplæring A*AA Award of the Vitnemål for videregående opplæring with an average of 5.3 in the common core subjects, and grades 6, 5 in two optional programme subjects AAA Award of the Vitnemål for videregående opplæring with an average of 5.0 in the common core subjects, and grades 5, 5 in two optional programme subjects AAB Award of the Vitnemål for videregående opplæring with an average of 4.7 in the common core subjects, and grades 5, 5 in two optional programme subjects Mathematics A*/A Maths A* - Obtain 6 in Mathematics R1 and R2 Maths A - Obtain 5 in Mathematics R1 and R2 For subjects where an exam has been taken, we will average your Final Assessment Grade and your Exam Grade and then take an overall average of all subjects taken.
Award of the Vitnemål for videregående opplæring with an average of 5.3 in the common core subjects, and grades 6, 5 in two optional programme subjects
Award of the Vitnemål for videregående opplæring with an average of 5.0 in the common core subjects, and grades 5, 5 in two optional programme subjects
Award of the Vitnemål for videregående opplæring with an average of 4.7 in the common core subjects, and grades 5, 5 in two optional programme subjects
Maths A* - Obtain 6 in Mathematics R1 and R2
Maths A - Obtain 5 in Mathematics R1 and R2
For subjects where an exam has been taken, we will average your Final Assessment Grade and your Exam Grade and then take an overall average of all subjects taken.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Norway Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelorgrad (bachelor’s degree) with an average of B/very good.
We also accept the pre-2003 candidatus magisterii with an overall grade of 2.5/4 or laudabilis.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first-class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelorgrad (bachelor’s degree) with an average of A/excellent.
We also accept the pre-2003 candidatus magisterii with an overall grade of 1.5/4 or laud pre ceteris.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require a master’s degree in law, with an overall grade of B/Very Good.
Research programmes (MPhil/MRes/PhD) To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a mastergrad (master’s degree) and expect an average grade of B/very good, or pre-2003 candidatus realium/candidatus philologiae.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelorgrad (bachelor’s degree) with an average of B/very good.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a mastergrad (master’s degree) and expect an average grade of B/very good, or pre-2003 candidatus realium/candidatus philologiae.
LSE Events in Norway LSE visits Norway regularly to meet with prospective students.
In 2022 LSE held an information session in Oslo.
LSE visits Norway regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/oman:
In 2023, LSE welcomed four students from Oman, two at undergraduate level and two at graduate level.
LSE visited Muscat, Oman in October 2019.
Oman Thanawiya Amma (Secondary School Leaving Certificate) The Oman Thanawiya Amma (Secondary School Leaving Certificate) is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Oman Thanawiya Amma (Secondary School Leaving Certificate) is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Oman Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's degree, completed after four years, from a recognised institution with marks of 3.3/4, B+ or an overall classification of distinction.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s degree in a relevant subject from a recognised institution with marks of 3.5/4.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's degree, completed after four years, from a recognised institution with marks of 3.3/4, B+ or an overall classification of distinction.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s degree in a relevant subject from a recognised institution with marks of 3.5/4.
LSE Events in Oman LSE visits Oman regularly to meet with prospective students.
In 2019 LSE held an information session Muscat.
LSE visits Oman regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/pakistan:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 78 students from Pakistan, 35 at undergraduate level and 43 at graduate level.
Pakistan Society The Pakistan Society celebrates the Pakistani way of life and traditions in a culturally diverse student body at LSE.
With a member base of over 250, we arrange exciting events all year round such as Eid dinners and cultural exhibitions.
We also organise public lectures and discussions on contemporary issues in collaboration with the LSE SU Pakistan Development Society - our counterparts!
Pakistan Development Society The LSE SU Pakistan Development Society holds development based and progress oriented conferences and events highlighting the problems faced by Pakistan and possible solutions to them.
The society not only outlines the economic, political and social challenges the country faces but invites notable academics, politicians and government representatives to debate and discuss pragmatic solutions to  them.
The society also holds events focusing on how to develop different sectors in Pakistan ranging from education to health and beyond.
The Pakistan Society celebrates the Pakistani way of life and traditions in a culturally diverse student body at LSE.
The LSE SU Pakistan Development Society holds development based and progress oriented conferences and events highlighting the problems faced by Pakistan and possible solutions to them.
Pakistan Higher Secondary School Certificate The Higher Secondary School Certificate (HSSC) is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Higher Secondary School Certificate (HSSC) is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Pakistan Taught master's programmes (MSc/MA/MPA/LLM) To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a post-2016 four-year bachelor's degree from a HEC-recognised institution with an overall mark of 70 per cent.
Where there is no percentage grade available, a GPA of 3.3/4.
Applicants with a three year first class bachelor's in addition to a master's degree with an overall grade of 75 per cent will also be considered.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first-class equivalent), we would normally require a four year bachelor's degree from a recognised institution with an overall mark of 82 per cent.
Alternatively, we require a master’s degree awarded after a three-year bachelor’s degree with an overall mark of 77 per cent.
Where there is no percentage grade available we require a GPA of 3.8/4.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require the five-year Bachelor of Laws alone or combined with a BA, BSc or BCom or the pre-2019 three-year LLB, with grades of 75 per cent or 3.5/4.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a two year master's degree awarded after a four year bachelor's degree with an overall mark of 75 per cent or a GPA of 3.5/4.0.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a post-2016 four-year bachelor's degree from a HEC-recognised institution with an overall mark of 70 per cent.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a two year master's degree awarded after a four year bachelor's degree with an overall mark of 75 per cent or a GPA of 3.5/4.0.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/panama:
In 2023, LSE welcomed three students from Panama, at graduate level.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Panama Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the Licenciado or Professional title (awarded after a minimum of four years study) with an overall mark of 85 per cent (Sobresaliente).
If awarded before 2006, we require the Maestria (equivalent to a bachelor's degree until 2006) with a minimum mark of 81 percent (Bueno).
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require the Licenciado en Derecho with a minimum overall mark of 91 per cent or 2.6/3.
If awarded before 2006, we require the Maestría with a minimum mark of 81 per cent (Bueno) or B.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require the Maestria and expect a mark of 81 percent (Bueno) if awarded after 2006.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the Licenciado or Professional title (awarded after a minimum of four years study) with an overall mark of 85 per cent (Sobresaliente).
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require the Maestria and expect a mark of 81 percent (Bueno) if awarded after 2006.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/paraguay:
In 2023, LSE welcomed four students from Paraguay, at graduate level.
Paraguay Bachillerato Técnico Bachillerato Científico The bachillerato técnico and the bachillerato científico are not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The bachillerato técnico and the bachillerato científico are not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Paraguay Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require the licenciado or professional title with a minimum overall grade of 4/5 (distinguido).
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first-class equivalent), we would normally require the licenciado or professional title with a minimum overall grade of 4.5/5.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the Licenciado en Derecho or Título de Abogado/a with an overall mark of 4.2/5.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a título de maestria/magister with an overall grade of 4/5 or muy bueno.
Alternatively, a UK taught master’s degree with an overall merit (at least 65 per cent) or its non-UK equivalent and a strong merit or its equivalent in the master’s dissertation in a subject relevant to the proposed research.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require the licenciado or professional title with a minimum overall grade of 4/5 (distinguido).
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a título de maestria/magister with an overall grade of 4/5 or muy bueno.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/peru:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 46 students from Peru, two at undergraduate level and 44 at graduate level.
Peru Certificado de Educación Secundaria Común Completa The Peru Certificado de Educación Secundaria Común Completa is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Peru Certificado de Educación Secundaria Común Completa is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Peru Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a título de licenciado/título profesional de [subject area]/grado académico de bachiller with a minimum overall mark of 14/20.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first-class equivalent), we would normally require a título de licenciado/título profesional de [subject area]/grado académico de bachiller with a minimum overall mark of 17/20.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require the bachiller en derecho or título de abogado with an average grade of 15/20.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a título de maestría/grado académico de magíster and expect a minimum overall mark of 15/20.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a título de licenciado/título profesional de [subject area]/grado académico de bachiller with a minimum overall mark of 14/20.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a título de maestría/grado académico de magíster and expect a minimum overall mark of 15/20.
LSE Events in Peru LSE visits Peru regularly to meet with prospective students.
In 2018 and 2019 LSE held information sessions in Lima.
LSE visits Peru regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/philippines:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 23 students from Philippines, four at undergraduate level and 19 at graduate level.
The Filipino Society The Filipino Society aims to promote the Filipino culture to both Filipinos and non-Filipinos alike, as well as encourage multi-culturalism and diversity in this rapidly globalising world.
It aims to provide its members with opportunities that are unique and wide-ranging through presentations, seminars, social gatherings, partnerships with other societies, businesses and governments, employer drop in sessions and the like.
The Filipino Society aims to promote the Filipino culture to both Filipinos and non-Filipinos alike, as well as encourage multi-culturalism and diversity in this rapidly globalising world.
The Philippines School-leaving certificate The school-leaving certificate from The Philippines is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The school-leaving certificate from The Philippines is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from The Philippines Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, we would normally require a master’s degree from a Centre of Excellence in the relevant subject area with an overall mark of above 1.75 (where 1 is the highest grade), B+ or 3.5/4.
We can also accept applicants with a master's degree from a university not classified as a Centre of Excellence in the relevant subject area with an overall mark of 1.5, A- or 3.7/4.
Applicants with a bachelor's degree only from a Centre of Excellence in the relevant subject area may be considered with exceptional grades only.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require a Bachelor of Laws awarded after 2022 or Juris Doctor (JD) with 1.75/5 (where 1 is the highest grade), 3.5/4, 85 per cent or B+.
Pre-2022 we require a master’s degree in law or a JD with these grades.
To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, we would normally require a master’s degree from a Centre of Excellence in the relevant subject area with an overall mark of above 1.75 (where 1 is the highest grade), B+ or 3.5/4.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/poland:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 66 students from Poland, 47 at undergraduate level and 19 at graduate level.
Polish Business The Polish Business Society is a student association striving to connect Polish students at LSE.
We also serve as a platform linking Polish students in the UK with businesses in Poland.
Students@LSE Blogs Follow Polish students Magdalena and Zofia as she blogs about her journey at LSE.
The Polish Business Society is a student association striving to connect Polish students at LSE.
Follow Polish students Magdalena and Zofia as she blogs about her journey at LSE.
Equivalency of the Polish Matura / Swiadectwo Dojrzalosci with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in the Polish Matura / Swiadectwo Dojrzalosci A*AA New Matura with 3 extended level subjects in the 95th, 90th and 90th percentiles AAA New Matura with 3 extended level subjects in the 90th percentile AAB New Matura with 3 extended level subjects in the 90th, 90th and 85th percentiles Mathematics A* 95th percentile in Extended Level Mathematics Mathematics A 90th percentile in Extended Level Mathematics In terms of academic achievement, our entry requirements vary by programme, and are listed on the individual undergraduate degree programme webpages .
New Matura with 3 extended level subjects in the 95th, 90th and 90th percentiles
New Matura with 3 extended level subjects in the 90th percentile
New Matura with 3 extended level subjects in the 90th, 90th and 85th percentiles
95th percentile in Extended Level Mathematics
90th percentile in Extended Level Mathematics
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Poland Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require either the licencjat/inzynier (Bachelor’s degree).
If you completed your degree prior to 2006 we would normally require the magister.
In either case, we would normally require an overall grade of 4.5/5 or 5.0/6.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first-class equivalent), we would normally require either the licencjat/inzynier (Bachelor’s degree).
In either case, we would normally require an overall grade of 5.0/5 or 5.5/6.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require a master’s degree in law ( Magister Prawa ) with an overall grade of 4.5/5.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a magister, completed after 2006, with grades of 4.5/5 or 5/6.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require either the licencjat/inzynier (Bachelor’s degree).
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a magister, completed after 2006, with grades of 4.5/5 or 5/6.
LSE Events in Poland LSE visits Poland regularly to meet with prospective students.
In 2018 LSE attended the British Council Study UK Higher Education Fair in Krakow and in 2019 LSE visited Warsaw in November.
LSE visits Poland regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/portugal:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 31 students from Portugal, nine at undergraduate level and 22 at graduate level.
Students@LSE Blogs Follow Portuguese study abroad student Mariana as she blogs about her journey at LSE.
Follow Portuguese study abroad student Mariana as she blogs about her journey at LSE.
Equivalency of the Portuguese Diploma de Ensino Secundario with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in the Portuguese Diploma de Ensino Secundario A*AA, AAA, AAB Complete your Diploma de Ensino Secundario with at least 18 overall Mathematics A* Score 19 in Mathematics A Mathematics A Score 18 in Mathematics A In terms of academic achievement, our entry requirements vary by programme, and are listed on the individual undergraduate degree programme webpages .
Complete your Diploma de Ensino Secundario with at least 18 overall
Score 19 in Mathematics A
Score 18 in Mathematics A
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Portugal Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the licenciado / licenciatura, or the DESE awarded after four to five years of study.
The mestrado / mestre is also acceptable.
We would normally require grades of 15/20, bom com distincao or good with distinction, or above.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the Licenciatura em Direito with 16/20.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a mestrado/mestra/master's degree with grades of 16, bom com distincao, good with distinction or above.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the licenciado / licenciatura, or the DESE awarded after four to five years of study.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a mestrado/mestra/master's degree with grades of 16, bom com distincao, good with distinction or above.
LSE Events in Portugal LSE visits Portugal regularly to meet with prospective students.
LSE visited Lisbon and Porto in November 2019.
LSE visits Portugal regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/puerto-rico:
In 2023, LSE welcomed one student from Puerto Rico, at graduate level.
Puerto Rico Associate Degree The Associate Degree is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Associate Degree is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Puerto Rico Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, we would normally require a a bachelor's degree from a university accredited by the United States of America with a GPA of 3.5/4.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a UK taught master’s degree with an overall merit (at least 65 per cent) or its non-UK equivalent and a strong merit or its equivalent in the master’s dissertation in a subject relevant to the proposed research.
To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, we would normally require a a bachelor's degree from a university accredited by the United States of America with a GPA of 3.5/4.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a UK taught master’s degree with an overall merit (at least 65 per cent) or its non-UK equivalent and a strong merit or its equivalent in the master’s dissertation in a subject relevant to the proposed research.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/qatar:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 11 students from Qatar, six at undergraduate level and five at graduate level.
Qatar (Al-Thanawaye Al-Aama) The Qatar (Al-Thanawaye Al-Aama) is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Qatar (Al-Thanawaye Al-Aama) is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Qatar Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's degree with an overall grade of excellent, 3.3/4 or 4.3/5.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s degree in a relevant subject with an overall GPA of 3.6/4.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's degree with an overall grade of excellent, 3.3/4 or 4.3/5.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s degree in a relevant subject with an overall GPA of 3.6/4.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/romania:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 21 students from Romania, 15 at undergraduate level and six at graduate level.
Romanian Society The LSESU Romanian Society aims to celebrate and promote the Romanian country, culture and traditions both on campus as well as outside!
The LSESU Romanian Society aims to celebrate and promote the Romanian country, culture and traditions both on campus as well as outside!
Equivalency of the Romanian Diploma de Bacalaureat with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in the Romanian Diploma de Bacalaureat A*AA Award of the Diploma de Bacalaureat with 9.3 in three written examinations AAA Award of the Diploma de Bacalaureat with 9.0 in three written examinations AAB Award of the Diploma de Bacalaureat with 8.6 in three written examinations Mathematics A*/A A* - 10.0 in the written examination of the individual Bacalaureat subject A - 9.0 in the written examination of the individual Bacalaureat subject In terms of academic achievement, our entry requirements vary by programme, and are listed on the individual undergraduate degree programme webpages .
Award of the Diploma de Bacalaureat with 9.3 in three written examinations
Award of the Diploma de Bacalaureat with 9.0 in three written examinations
Award of the Diploma de Bacalaureat with 8.6 in three written examinations
A* - 10.0 in the written examination of the individual Bacalaureat subject A - 9.0 in the written examination of the individual Bacalaureat subject
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Romania Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the diploma de licenta/diploma de urbanist diplomat/diploma de inginer/diploma de arhitect (pre-2013) with grades of 8.5 or above out of 10.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's degree in law (Licenta in Studii Juridice) with an overall average of 9/10.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require the diploma de master/diploma de studii aprofundante, the diploma de studii academice postuniversitare or the diploma de studii postuniversitare de specializare and expect an overall mark of 9.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the diploma de licenta/diploma de urbanist diplomat/diploma de inginer/diploma de arhitect (pre-2013) with grades of 8.5 or above out of 10.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require the diploma de master/diploma de studii aprofundante, the diploma de studii academice postuniversitare or the diploma de studii postuniversitare de specializare and expect an overall mark of 9.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/russia:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 42 students from Russia, 20 at undergraduate level and 22 at graduate level.
Russian Business and Culture The Russian Business and Culture Society is a network of over 2,000 students, alumni, postgraduates and professionals.
We are partners with 8 top UK universities’ Russian societies including UCL, Imperial and KCL.
We foster cooperation between the UK and the Russian-speaking nations of the world by organising speaker events and publicising opportunities to get involved in the economic life of the region.
We aim to offer a holistic coverage of the of the region, providing our members with a bridge to its political, economic, cultural and business environment.
The Russian Business and Culture Society is a network of over 2,000 students, alumni, postgraduates and professionals.
Russia Qualifications The Russia Certificate of Secondary Education at grade 11 or EGE (Certificate of Unified State Examination) are not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Russia Certificate of Secondary Education at grade 11 or EGE (Certificate of Unified State Examination) are not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Russia Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor’s (Bakalavr) degree (awarded after a minimum of four years) or Specialist Diploma (awarded after a minimum of five years), with an average grade of 4.5/5 or Good.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first-class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor’s (Bakalavr) degree (awarded after a minimum of four years) or Specialist Diploma (awarded after a minimum of five years), with an average grade of 4.8/5 or Excellent.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require the Spetsialist pravovedenya or Spetsialist yurisprudentsii degree, completed after four or five years of study, with an average grade of 4.75/5, 8/10 or Excellent.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's or magister with an average grade of 4.5/5 or good.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor’s (Bakalavr) degree (awarded after a minimum of four years) or Specialist Diploma (awarded after a minimum of five years), with an average grade of 4.5/5 or Good.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's or magister with an average grade of 4.5/5 or good.
LSE Events in Russia LSE visits Russia regularly to meet with prospective students.
In 2018 and 2019 LSE attended the QS World Grad School Tour Fair in Moscow and St Petersburg.
LSE visits Russia regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/rwanda:
In 2023, LSE welcomed one student from Rwanda, at graduate level.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Rwanda Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a four-year bachelor's (honours) degree from a public university (after 2007) with a 2:1, Upper Division, Distinction, 3.5/4 or 14/20.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s degree and expect an overall mark of merit or 14/20
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a four-year bachelor's (honours) degree from a public university (after 2007) with a 2:1, Upper Division, Distinction, 3.5/4 or 14/20.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s degree and expect an overall mark of merit or 14/20

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/samoa:
Undergraduate entry requirements for applicants from Samoa Please view information on accepted international qualifications .
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Samoa Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the equivalent of an upper second-class UK bachelor’s honours degree.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/san-marino:
Undergraduate entry requirements for applicants from San Marino Please view information on accepted international qualifications .
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from San Marino Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the equivalent of an upper second-class UK bachelor’s honours degree.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/saudi-arabia:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 36 students from Saudi Arabia, seven at undergraduate level and 29 at graduate level.
Saudi Arabia school-leaving qualifications The school-leaving qualifications from Saudi Arabia are not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The school-leaving qualifications from Saudi Arabia are not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Saudi Arabia Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor's degree after at least four years of study with grades of 80 per cent, 3.3/4, 4.0/5,  or an overall B, if awarded since 2004.
If awarded prior to 2004, we require the master's with similar grades.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first-class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor's degree after at least four years of study with grades of 90 per cent, 3.75/4, 4.7/5, A or very good, if awarded since 2004.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s degree if awarded after 2004 and expect grades of 85 per cent.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor's degree after at least four years of study with grades of 80 per cent, 3.3/4, 4.0/5,  or an overall B, if awarded since 2004.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s degree if awarded after 2004 and expect grades of 85 per cent.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/senegal:
In 2023, LSE welcomed five students from Senegal, two at undergraduate level and three at graduate level.
Senegal Senior School Certificate The Senegal Senior School Certificate is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Senegal Senior School Certificate is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Senegal Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the master, maîtrise, diplome d’etudes approfondies, diplôme d’etudes supérieures specialisées, diplôme d’ingénieur, diplôme de pharmacien, diplôme de docteur en chirurgie dentaire or diplôme d’etat de docteur en médecine, with an overall grade of 14/20.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the master, maîtrise, diplome d’etudes approfondies, diplôme d’etudes supérieures specialisées, diplôme d’ingénieur, diplôme de pharmacien, diplôme de docteur en chirurgie dentaire or diplôme d’etat de docteur en médecine, with an overall grade of 14/20.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/serbia:
In 2023, LSE welcomed nine students from Serbia, four at undergraduate level and five at graduate level.
Equivalency of Diploma of Completed Secondary Education (Diploma o stecenom srednjem obrazovanj) A level grade Equivalent in Diploma of Completed Secondary Education (Diploma o stecenom srednjem obrazovanj) A*AA, AAA Complete your Diploma of Completed Secondary Education (Diploma o stecenom srednjem obrazovanj) with at least 5 overall AAB Complete your Diploma of Completed Secondary Education (Diploma o stecenom srednjem obrazovanj) with at least 4.5 overall Mathematics A*/A 5 in Mathematics For any other required subjects A*/A=5, B=4 In terms of academic achievement, our entry requirements vary by programme, and are listed on the individual undergraduate degree programme webpages .
Complete your Diploma of Completed Secondary Education (Diploma o stecenom srednjem obrazovanj) with at least 5 overall
Complete your Diploma of Completed Secondary Education (Diploma o stecenom srednjem obrazovanj) with at least 4.5 overall
5 in Mathematics
For any other required subjects A*/A=5, B=4
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Serbia Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a post-Bologna bachelor degree (awarded after 2009) or diploma o stecenom visokom obrazovanju, with an overall mark of 8.5/10.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a macrep/magistar (master’s degree) and expect an overall mark of 9/10.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a post-Bologna bachelor degree (awarded after 2009) or diploma o stecenom visokom obrazovanju, with an overall mark of 8.5/10.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a macrep/magistar (master’s degree) and expect an overall mark of 9/10.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/seychelles:
In 2023, LSE welcomed one student from the Seychelles, at undergraduate level.
Equivalency of Cambridge Overseas Higher School Certificate with GCE A levels The Cambridge Overseas Higher School Certificate is normally acceptable as an entry qualification to LSE and is considered equivalent to GCE A level.
The Cambridge Overseas Higher School Certificate is normally acceptable as an entry qualification to LSE and is considered equivalent to GCE A level.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from the Seychelles Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor’s degree from the University of Seychelles with an upper second class (2:1).
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor’s degree from the University of Seychelles with an upper second class (2:1).

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/sierra-leone:
In 2023, LSE welcomed one student from Sierra Leone, at graduate level.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Sierra Leone Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's (honours) degree from a recognised university.
We require an overall mark of 60 per cent, 3.25/4 or 4.0/5.
We also accept a master’s degree with a merit.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's (honours) degree from a recognised university.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/singapore:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 305 students from Singapore, 238 at undergraduate level and 67 at graduate level.
Singapore Society The Singapore Society serves as an avenue for Singaporeans at LSE to reach out and interact with one another.
Our society also organises several activities, besides the annual Orientation Camp in Singapore, such as the Chinese New Year Steamboat Dinner, Christmas Party and Springboard Singapore.
The Society is also a good way to keep in touch with your Singaporean friends in other universities, for we often participate in inter-collegiate activities, such as the annual Singapore Warwick Summer Games, as well as the traditional UCL-LSE Soccer matches.
Students@LSE Blogs Follow Singaporean study abroad student Sherry as she blogs about her journey at LSE.
The Singapore Society serves as an avenue for Singaporeans at LSE to reach out and interact with one another.
Follow Singaporean study abroad student Sherry as she blogs about her journey at LSE.
Equivalency of the Singapore-Cambridge GCE A levels with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in the Singapore-Cambridge GCE A levels A*AA, AAA, AAB H2 subjects are equivalent to A levels (excluding Knowledge and Inquiry (KI) Mathematics A*/A Grade A in H2 Mathematics Equivalency of the National University of Singapore (NUS) High School Diploma with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in the A*AA, AAA, AAB Complete your Diploma with a minimum GPA of 4.3 Mathematics A*/A 4.7/4.1 Ideally students offering this qualification would also be taking two or three AP examinations.
Equivalency of the Singapore Polytechnic Diploma with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in the Singapore Polytechnic Diploma A*AA, AAA Complete your Singapore Polytechnic Diploma with a minimum GPA of at least 3.8 AAB Complete your Singapore Polytechnic Diploma with a minimum GPA of at least 3.5 Due to the specialised nature of the diploma, an additional qualification, such as an A level in a facilitating subject, would be preferred.
Equivalency of the Singapore Institute of Management (SIM) Diploma with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in the Singapore Institute of Management Diploma* A*AA, AAA Complete your Singapore Institute of Management Diploma with a minimum GPA of at least 3.8 AAB Complete your Singapore Institute of Management Diploma with a minimum GPA of at least 3.5 *We will only consider the SIM Diploma in Management Studies for entry to the BSc Management programme, and the SIM Diploma in Accounting for entry onto the BSc Accounting and Finance programme.
H2 subjects are equivalent to A levels (excluding Knowledge and Inquiry (KI)
Grade A in H2 Mathematics
Complete your Diploma with a minimum GPA of 4.3
4.7/4.1
Ideally students offering this qualification would also be taking two or three AP examinations.
Complete your Singapore Polytechnic Diploma with a minimum GPA of at least 3.8
Complete your Singapore Polytechnic Diploma with a minimum GPA of at least 3.5
Due to the specialised nature of the diploma, an additional qualification, such as an A level in a facilitating subject, would be preferred.
Complete your Singapore Institute of Management Diploma with a minimum GPA of at least 3.8
Complete your Singapore Institute of Management Diploma with a minimum GPA of at least 3.5
*We will only consider the SIM Diploma in Management Studies for entry to the BSc Management programme, and the SIM Diploma in Accounting for entry onto the BSc Accounting and Finance programme.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Singapore Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor’s (honours) degree from a highly regarded institution.
From Singapore Management University and Singapore University of Technology and Design, we would normally require a bachelor’s degree.
We would normally require a GPA of 3.5/4.0 or 3.5/4.3 or a CAP of 4.0/5.0, or an overall 2:1.
To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme (first-class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor’s (honours) degree from a highly regarded institution.
We would normally require a GPA of 3.7/4.0 or 3.7/4.3 or a CAP of 4.5/5.0, or an overall First.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require a Bachelor of Laws (LLB) or Juris Doctor (JD) with a 2.1, a CAP of 4.0/5, or a GPA of 3.5/4 or 3.5/4.3.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree from a highly regarded institution with 60 per cent, a GPA of 3.5/4, or CAP of 4/5.
To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor’s (honours) degree from a highly regarded institution.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree from a highly regarded institution with 60 per cent, a GPA of 3.5/4, or CAP of 4/5.
LSE Events in Singapore LSE visits Singapore regularly to meet with prospective students.
In 2018 and 2019 LSE held information sessions.
LSE visits Singapore regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/slovakia:
In 2023, LSE welcomed nine students from Slovakia, two at undergraduate level and seven at graduate level.
Czech and Slovak Society The Czech and Slovak Society is a dynamic society aimed at connecting Czech and Slovak students at the LSE and celebrating the very best of Central Europe for anyone interested.
The Czech and Slovak Society is a dynamic society aimed at connecting Czech and Slovak students at the LSE and celebrating the very best of Central Europe for anyone interested.
Equivalency of the Slovakian Vysvedcenie o Maturitnej Skúske/Maturita with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in the Slovakian Vysvedcenie o Maturitnej Skúske/Maturita A*AA, AAA, AAB Complete the Maturita with a majority of subjects at 1 (výborný) and no subject lower than 2 (chválitebný) Mathematics A*/A Score 1 (výborný) in the external mathematics examination with a minimum score of 85 per cent in the written examination In terms of academic achievement, our entry requirements vary by programme, and are listed on the individual undergraduate degree programme webpages .
Complete the Maturita with a majority of subjects at 1 (výborný) and no subject lower than 2 (chválitebný)
Score 1 (výborný) in the external mathematics examination with a minimum score of 85 per cent in the written examination
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Slovakia Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the bakalar.
If you completed your degree prior to 2005 we would normally require the the second level magister and inzinier.
In either case we would normally require an overall mark of B, 1.5 or very good.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require the magister and inžinier (mgr and ing), awarded after 2005, with an overall mark of B, 1.5 or very good.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the bakalar.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require the magister and inžinier (mgr and ing), awarded after 2005, with an overall mark of B, 1.5 or very good.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/slovenia:
In 2023, LSE welcomed four students from Slovenia, at graduate level.
Equivalency of the Maturitetno spričevalo/ Splošna Matura (General Matura Certifícate) with GCE A levels For 2025/26 onwards: A level grade Equivalent in the Slovenian Splošna Matura (General Matura Certifícate) A*AA Award of the Maturitetno Spričevalo with 28 points overall with no subjects below 3 AAA Award of the Maturitetno Spričevalo with 25 points overall with no subjects below 3 AAB Award of the Maturitetno Spričevalo with 22 points overall with no subjects below 3 Mathematics A* 7 points in Higher Level Mathematics Mathematics A 6 points in Higher Level Mathematics In terms of academic achievement, our entry requirements vary by programme, and are listed on the individual undergraduate degree programme webpages .
Award of the Maturitetno Spričevalo with 28 points overall with no subjects below 3
Award of the Maturitetno Spričevalo with 25 points overall with no subjects below 3
Award of the Maturitetno Spričevalo with 22 points overall with no subjects below 3
7 points in Higher Level Mathematics
6 points in Higher Level Mathematics
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Slovenia Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the diploma o pridobljeni univerzitetni izobrazbi, the diploma o pridobljeni visoki strokovni izobrazbi/diplomirani, the diplomant, the univerzitetni diplomant or the diploma specializacija all with an average grade of 7.5/10.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require the magister (master's degree) and expect an overall mark of 8/10.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the diploma o pridobljeni univerzitetni izobrazbi, the diploma o pridobljeni visoki strokovni izobrazbi/diplomirani, the diplomant, the univerzitetni diplomant or the diploma specializacija all with an average grade of 7.5/10.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require the magister (master's degree) and expect an overall mark of 8/10.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/somalia:
In 2023, LSE welcomed one student from Somalia, at graduate level.
Undergraduate entry requirements for applicants from Somalia Please view information on accepted international qualifications .
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Somalia Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the equivalent of an upper second-class UK bachelor’s honours degree.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/south-africa:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 36 students from South Africa, nine at undergraduate level and 27 at graduate level.
Equivalency of South African National Senior Certificate with GCE A levels For 2025/26 onwards: A level grade Equivalent in South African National Senior Certificate A*AA, AAA Complete the NSC with six passes to include grades 7, 7, 7, 7, 7 (excluding Life Orientation) AAB Complete the NSC with six passes to include grades 7, 7, 7, 7, 6 (excluding Life Orientation) Mathematics A*/A Grade 7 in Mathematics (Mathematical Literacy not acceptable) If you are studying the above qualification and your application is competitive, you may also be requested to complete the Undergraduate Admissions Assessment (UGAA) before a final decision can be made on your application.
Complete the NSC with six passes to include grades 7, 7, 7, 7, 7 (excluding Life Orientation)
Complete the NSC with six passes to include grades 7, 7, 7, 7, 6 (excluding Life Orientation)
Grade 7 in Mathematics (Mathematical Literacy not acceptable)
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from South Africa Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor's (honours) degree with an overall grade of 70 per cent or a 2:1.
We expect an average of 70 percent across the preceding three years.
We also accept a professional bachelor’s degree with an overall mark of 70 per cent or a 2:1.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first-class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor’s (honours) degree (a one-year degree completed after a three-year bachelor’s degree), or a professional bachelor’s degree with an overall mark of 75 per cent or First class.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require the Bachelor of Laws (LLB) with an average overall mark of 70 per cent or a 2:1.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a taught master’s degree with at least 65 per cent or above.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor's (honours) degree with an overall grade of 70 per cent or a 2:1.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a taught master’s degree with at least 65 per cent or above.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/south-korea:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 117 students from South Korea, 38 at undergraduate level and 79 at graduate level.
Students@LSE Blogs Follow South Korean undergraduate student Hanseul as she blogs about her journey at LSE.
Follow South Korean undergraduate student Hanseul as she blogs about her journey at LSE.
South Korea Ilbankye Kodung Hakkyo (General High School Diploma) The Ilbankye Kodung Hakkyo is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Ilbankye Kodung Hakkyo is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from South Korea Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalence), we would normally require a four year bachelor's degree (Haksa) with grades of 85 per cent or B+.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first-class equivalence), we would normally require a four-year bachelor’s degree (Haksa) with an overall grade of 90 per cent or A.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require an undergraduate or postgraduate degree in law with an overall average of 85 per cent or B+.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree (Suksa) with overall grades of 85 per cent, or B+.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalence), we would normally require a four year bachelor's degree (Haksa) with grades of 85 per cent or B+.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree (Suksa) with overall grades of 85 per cent, or B+.
LSE Events in South Korea LSE visits South Korea regularly to meet with prospective students.
In 2018 LSE attended the QS World Grad School Tour in Seoul.
LSE visits South Korea regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/south-sudan:
In 2023, LSE welcomed one student from South Sudan, at graduate level.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from South Sudan Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the equivalent of an upper second-class UK bachelor’s honours degree.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/spain:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 129 students from Spain, 53 at undergraduate level and 76 at graduate level.
Spanish Society The Spanish Society aims to support and develop Spanish culture at LSE by providing a forum to discuss political and economic challenges that are relevant to the Spanish arena.
The Spanish Society aims to support and develop Spanish culture at LSE by providing a forum to discuss political and economic challenges that are relevant to the Spanish arena.
Equivalency of the Spanish Título de Bachiller / Bachillerato with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in the Spanish Título de Bachiller / Bachillerato A*AA, AAA Complete the Título de Bachiller with an overall average of at least 9.0 AAB Complete the Título de Bachiller with an overall average of at least 8.0 Mathematics A*/A Obtain 9.0 in Matemáticas II or Matemáticas aplicadas a las ciencias sociales II In terms of academic achievement, our entry requirements vary by programme, and are listed on the individual undergraduate degree programme webpages .
Complete the Título de Bachiller with an overall average of at least 9.0
Complete the Título de Bachiller with an overall average of at least 8.0
Obtain 9.0 in Matemáticas II or Matemáticas aplicadas a las ciencias sociales II
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Spain Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require the second cycle licenciado/licenciatura or the post-Bologna grado.
We would normally require 70/10.
Where the university is using the new scale of 0-4 we would normally require marks of 2.5/4 or above.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first-class equivalent), we would normally require the second cycle licenciado/licenciatura or the post-Bologna grado.
We would normally require 9.0/10.
Where the university is using the new scale of 0-4 we would normally require marks of 3.0/4 or above.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor’s degree in law (grado en derecho) with an overall average of 7.5/10 or 2.5/4.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require the post-Bologna (obtained since 2007) título de máster or master's degree (when recognised by the Ministerio de Educación) with 7.5.
Where the university is using the new scale of 0-4 we would normally require marks of 2.5 or above.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require the second cycle licenciado/licenciatura or the post-Bologna grado.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require the post-Bologna (obtained since 2007) título de máster or master's degree (when recognised by the Ministerio de Educación) with 7.5.
LSE Events in Spain LSE visits Spain regularly to meet with prospective students.
LSE visited Madrid and Barcelona in November 2019.
LSE visits Spain regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/sri-lanka:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 17 students from Sri Lanka, 14 at undergraduate level and three at graduate level.
Sri Lanka The LSESU Sri Lanka Society is about bringing together individuals from all backgrounds to raise awareness and celebrate the unique Sri Lankan culture.
The LSESU Sri Lanka Society is about bringing together individuals from all backgrounds to raise awareness and celebrate the unique Sri Lankan culture.
Equivalency of the Sri Lanka GCE Advanced Level with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in the Sri Lanka GCE Advanced Level A*AA, AAA AAA AAB AAB Mathematics A*/A Mathematics or Combined Mathematics grade A In terms of academic achievement, our entry requirements vary by programme, and are listed on the individual undergraduate degree programme webpages .
Mathematics or Combined Mathematics grade A
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Sri Lanka Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the four-year bachelor’s (special or honours) or bachelor’s (professional) degree with a second class, upper division (2:1).
Where there is only a GPA, we require 3.3/4.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s degree and expect grades of 70 per cent.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the four-year bachelor’s (special or honours) or bachelor’s (professional) degree with a second class, upper division (2:1).
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s degree and expect grades of 70 per cent.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/st-kitts-and-nevis:
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from St Kitts and Nevis (Caribbean Entry) Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, we would normally require a good upper second class (2:1) bachelor's degree or higher from the University of Technology, the University of the West Indies (UWI), or from another accredited tertiary institution which offers accepted qualifications.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/st-lucia:
Undergraduate entry requirements for applicants from St Lucia Please view information on accepted international qualifications .
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from St Lucia Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, we would normally require a good upper second class (2:1) bachelor's degree or higher from the University of Technology, the University of the West Indies (UWI), or from another accredited tertiary institution which offers accepted qualifications.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/st-vincent-and-the-grenadines:
In 2023, LSE welcomed one student from St.
Vincent and the Grenadines, at graduate level.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from St.
Vincent and the Grenadines (Caribbean Entry only) Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, we would normally require a good upper second class (2:1) bachelor's degree or higher from the University of Technology, the University of the West Indies (UWI), or from another accredited tertiary institution which offers accepted qualifications.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/sudan:
In 2023, LSE welcomed six students from Sudan, one at undergraduate level and five at graduate level.
Sudan School Certificate (SSC) The Sudan School Certificate is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Sudan School Certificate is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Sudan Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's (honours) degree or professional bachelor's degree (architecture, dentistry, engineering or medicine/surgery) with grades of 70 per cent, 4.0/5, 7.0/10, 3.3/4 or B+.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s degree (minimum two years in length) and expect a merit, 70 per cent or B+.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's (honours) degree or professional bachelor's degree (architecture, dentistry, engineering or medicine/surgery) with grades of 70 per cent, 4.0/5, 7.0/10, 3.3/4 or B+.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s degree (minimum two years in length) and expect a merit, 70 per cent or B+.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/sweden:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 33 students from Sweden, seven at undergraduate level and 26 at graduate level.
Equivalency of the Swedish Gymnasieexamen with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in the Swedish Gymnasieexamen A*AA, AAA Complete your Gymnasieexamen with at least 2,500 credits and an overall grade point average of 18.5.
The diploma project/thesis is excluded from our GPA calculation.
AAB Complete your Gymnasieexamen with at least 2,500 credits and an overall grade point average of 18.
Mathematics A*/A A in Mathematics 4 If you are studying the above qualification and your application for a programme requiring mathematics is competitive, you may also be requested to complete the mathematics component of the Undergraduate Admissions Assessment (UGAA) before a final decision can be made on your application.
Complete your Gymnasieexamen with at least 2,500 credits and an overall grade point average of 18.5.
Complete your Gymnasieexamen with at least 2,500 credits and an overall grade point average of 18.
A in Mathematics 4
If you are studying the above qualification and your application for a programme requiring mathematics is competitive, you may also be requested to complete the mathematics component of the Undergraduate Admissions Assessment (UGAA) before a final decision can be made on your application.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Sweden Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (2:1 equivalent), we would normally require the kandidatexamen (bachelor’s honours) with a minimum of 180 ECTA credits with at least 90 credits graded VG (väl godkänd), a GPA of 4.0/5 or B.
For programmes requiring a first class equivalent, we would normally require the kandidatexamen with 135/180 ECTA credits graded VG (väl godkänd), a GPA of 4.5/5 or B.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require a Bachelor of Laws or Juris Kandidatexamen, with at least 135/180 credits graded VG (Väl Godkänd), a GPA of 4.5/5 or B.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require the magisterexamen (master’s) with a minimum of 60 ECTS credits or the masterexamen with a minimum of 120 credits and we expect at least 50 per cent of the credits graded VG (väl godkänd) or B.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (2:1 equivalent), we would normally require the kandidatexamen (bachelor’s honours) with a minimum of 180 ECTA credits with at least 90 credits graded VG (väl godkänd), a GPA of 4.0/5 or B.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require the magisterexamen (master’s) with a minimum of 60 ECTS credits or the masterexamen with a minimum of 120 credits and we expect at least 50 per cent of the credits graded VG (väl godkänd) or B.
LSE Events in Sweden LSE visits Sweden regularly to meet with prospective students.
In 2022 LSE held an information session in Stockholm.
LSE visits Sweden regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/switzerland:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 119 students from Switzerland, 34 at undergraduate level and 85 at graduate level.
Swiss Society The Swiss Society promotes the Swiss culture at LSE and organises social and professional events, all students are welcome to join!
The Swiss Society promotes the Swiss culture at LSE and organises social and professional events, all students are welcome to join!
Equivalency of Swiss Maturitatszeugnis / Certificat de Maturite / Attestato di Maturita with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in Swiss Maturitatszeugnis / Certificat de Maturite / Attestato di Maturita A*AA Complete your Maturita with an overall average of at least 5.3 AAA Complete your Maturita with an overall average of at least 5.0 AAB Complete your Maturita with an overall average of at least 4.7 Mathematics A* Grade 5.5 in Mathematics Mathematics A Grade 5.0 in Mathematics In terms of academic achievement, our entry requirements vary by programme, and are listed on the individual undergraduate degree programme webpages .
Complete your Maturita with an overall average of at least 5.3
Complete your Maturita with an overall average of at least 5.0
Complete your Maturita with an overall average of at least 4.7
Grade 5.5 in Mathematics
Grade 5.0 in Mathematics
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Switzerland Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalence), we would normally require a post-Bologna bachelor’s degree (started after 2003, depending on the institution) or diplom/diplome/diploma or lizentiat/licence/licenza or staatsdiplom/diplôme d'état/diploma di stato.
We require grades of 5.0/6, 8.0/10, 2.0/5.
For German-based degrees, please see the Germany entry.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first-class equivalence), we would normally require grades of 5.5/6, 9.0/10, 1.5/5 (5 being the lowest).
Note: the Diplôme (awarded by a Haute Ecole Spécialisée) and Diploma (awarded by a Scuola Universitaria Professionale) are considered comparable to a British bachelor degree standard only.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require require a degree in law with an overall average of 5.0/6 (or magna cum laude).
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s degree and expect grades of 5/6, 8/10, 2/5 (5 being the lowest), gut, bien, bene or good.
The following qualifications are also considered comparable to a British taught master’s degree: eidenösisches diplom berufsbildung/diplôme fédéral, formation professionelle/diploma federale formazione professionale / federal diploma and master of advanced studies.
For these qualifications, we require the same grades as above.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalence), we would normally require a post-Bologna bachelor’s degree (started after 2003, depending on the institution) or diplom/diplome/diploma or lizentiat/licence/licenza or staatsdiplom/diplôme d'état/diploma di stato.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s degree and expect grades of 5/6, 8/10, 2/5 (5 being the lowest), gut, bien, bene or good.
LSE Events in Switzerland LSE visits Switzerland regularly to meet with prospective students.
In 2022 LSE held information sessions in Zurich.
LSE visits Switzerland regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/syria:
In 2022, LSE welcomed four students from Syria, at graduate level.
Students@LSE Blogs Follow Syrian graduate student Myriam as she blogs about her journey at LSE.
Follow Syrian graduate student Myriam as she blogs about her journey at LSE.
Syria school-leaving qualifications The school-leaving qualifications from Syria are not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The school-leaving qualifications from Syria are not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Syria Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor’s degree with 75 per cent, jayyid jiddan or very good.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a al-mâjistîr (master's degree) and expect an overall grade of 85 per cent.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor’s degree with 75 per cent, jayyid jiddan or very good.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a al-mâjistîr (master's degree) and expect an overall grade of 85 per cent.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/taiwan:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 71 students from Taiwan, 11 at undergraduate level and 60 at graduate level.
Taiwanese Society The Taiwanese Society aims to promote greater understanding of the rich culture and history of Taiwan, as well as foster a friendly and intimate community among our members.
Students@LSE Blog Follow Taiwanese graduate student Joyce as she blogs about her journey at LSE.
The Taiwanese Society aims to promote greater understanding of the rich culture and history of Taiwan, as well as foster a friendly and intimate community among our members.
Follow Taiwanese graduate student Joyce as she blogs about her journey at LSE.
Taiwan Senior High School Diploma The Senior High School Diploma is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Senior High School Diploma is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Taiwan Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalence), we would normally require a four year bachelor's degree from a highly regarded institution with marks of 80 per cent.
Where there is only a GPA, we require 3.7/4.3 or 3.5/4.
From all other institutions we would normally require the higher requirements listed below.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first-class equivalent), we would normally require a four year bachelor's degree with marks of 90 per cent.
Where there is only a GPA, we require 4.1/4.3 or 3.9/4.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require a four-year bachelor's degree in law with an overall mark of 85 per cent.
Where there is only a GPA, we require 3.8/4 or 4.0/4.3.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree from a highly regarded institution and would expect marks of 80 per cent.
Where there is only a GPA, we 3.7/4.3 or 3.5/4.
From all other institutions we would normally expect an overall mark of 90 per cent.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalence), we would normally require a four year bachelor's degree from a highly regarded institution with marks of 80 per cent.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree from a highly regarded institution and would expect marks of 80 per cent.
LSE Events in Taiwan LSE visits Taiwan regularly to meet with prospective students.
In 2018 we held an information session in Taipei.
LSE visits Taiwan regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/tajikistan:
In 2023, LSE welcomed two students from Tajikistan, one at undergraduate level and one at graduate level.
Tajikistan Certificate of Completed Secondary Education The Certificate of Completed Secondary Education is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Tajikistan Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, we would normally require the magister/specialist diploma (after 1991) with an overall mark of 4/5 or good.
To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, we would normally require the magister/specialist diploma (after 1991) with an overall mark of 4/5 or good.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/tanzania:
In 2023, LSE welcomed three students from Tanzania, two at undergraduate level and one at graduate level.
Tanzania Senior School Certificate The Tanzania Senior School Certificate is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Tanzania Senior School Certificate is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Tanzania Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's degree with a 2:1.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s and expect an overall grade of merit or B+.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's degree with a 2:1.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s and expect an overall grade of merit or B+.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/thailand:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 95 students from Thailand, 49 at undergraduate level and 46 at graduate level.
Thai Society The LSESU Thai Society provides a forum for you to get to know other Thai students at LSE as well as at other universities in London and across the UK.
We are also here to give you advice to help you settling in and adjusting yourself both to your social and academic life at LSE.
We are here to make you feel at home and enjoy the best of your experience at LSE and London!
Moreover, we also commit to promoting a good understanding of Thai cultures, traditions, society and its people for those who are interested and want to get to know Thailand a bit more.
Students@LSE Blogs Follow Thai graduate student Sartsatat as he blogs about his journey at LSE.
The LSESU Thai Society provides a forum for you to get to know other Thai students at LSE as well as at other universities in London and across the UK.
Follow Thai graduate student Sartsatat as he blogs about his journey at LSE.
Thailand Maw 6 (M6) / Mathayom Suksa 6 / M6 The Maw 6 (M6) / Mathayom Suksa 6 / M6 is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Maw 6 (M6) / Mathayom Suksa 6 / M6 is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Thailand Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme (upper second class equivalence), we would normally require a bachelor's degree from a highly regarded institution with a GPA of 3.5/4 or 75 per cent.
Applicants from other universities may be considered on a case-by-case basis with a bachelor's degree with an overall grade of 3.75/4 or better.
To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme (first class equivalence), we would normally require a bachelor's degree from a highly regarded institution with grades of 3.7/4.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor’s degree in law with an overall average of 3.7/4.0 or 79 per cent.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally a master's degree or a higher graduate diploma from a highly regarded institution with an overall grade of B+, 3.5/4 or very good.
To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme (upper second class equivalence), we would normally require a bachelor's degree from a highly regarded institution with a GPA of 3.5/4 or 75 per cent.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally a master's degree or a higher graduate diploma from a highly regarded institution with an overall grade of B+, 3.5/4 or very good.
LSE Virtual Discovery Session for Thai Students LSE hosted a Discovery Session for students from Thailand.
The session covered study options at LSE, the application process, student visas, career opportunities, and the scholarships available to Thai students.
LSE Events in Thailand LSE visits Thailand regularly to meet with prospective students.
In 2018 LSE held an information session in Bangkok.
LSE hosted a Discovery Session for students from Thailand.
LSE visits Thailand regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/trinidad-and-tobago:
In 2023, LSE welcomed two students from Trinidad & Tobago, one at undergraduate level and one at graduate level.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Trinidad and Tobago Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, we would normally require a good upper second class (2:1) bachelor's degree or higher from the University of Technology, the University of the West Indies (UWI), or from another accredited tertiary institution which offers accepted qualifications.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/tunisia:
In 2023, LSE welcomed five students from Tunisia, four at undergraduate level and one at graduate level.
Tunisia Baccalauréat The Tunisian Baccalauréat is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Tunisian Baccalauréat is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Tunisia Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the licence, maîtrise or diplôme national d'ingénieur with an overall grade of 14/20 or bien (good).
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master or the diplôme d’études approfondies and expect an overall grade of 14/20.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the licence, maîtrise or diplôme national d'ingénieur with an overall grade of 14/20 or bien (good).
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master or the diplôme d’études approfondies and expect an overall grade of 14/20.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/turkey:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 84 students from Turkey, 21 at undergraduate level and 63 at graduate level.
Turkish Society The Turkish Society aims to promote awareness and understanding of the cultural, educational, political, social and historical aspects of Turkey and Turkish speaking countries.
The Turkish Society aims to promote awareness and understanding of the cultural, educational, political, social and historical aspects of Turkey and Turkish speaking countries.
Turkey Devlet Lise Diplomasi/Lise Bitirme Diplomasi/Anadolu Lisesi The Devlet Lise Diplomasi/Lise Bitirme Diplomasi/Anadolu Lisesi are not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Turkey Diplôme Lycée pour les écoles éstrangères en Turquie The Diplôme Lycée pour les écoles éstrangères en Turquie is considered on a case-by-case basis.
The Devlet Lise Diplomasi/Lise Bitirme Diplomasi/Anadolu Lisesi are not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Diplôme Lycée pour les écoles éstrangères en Turquie is considered on a case-by-case basis.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Turkey Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a lisans diplomasi (bachelor’s degree).
If you completed your degree prior to 2005, we would normally require the yüksek lisans diplomasi (master’s degree).
In either case, we would normally require a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.3/4.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first-class equivalent), we would normally require a lisans diplomasi (bachelor’s degree) when awarded after 2005 with a cumulative GPA of 3.6/4.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require a Lisans in law with an overall grade of 85 per cent or a GPA of 3.5/4.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a yüksek lisans diplomasi with an overall GPA of 3.3/4.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a lisans diplomasi (bachelor’s degree).
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a yüksek lisans diplomasi with an overall GPA of 3.3/4.
LSE Events in Turkey LSE visits Turkey regularly to meet with prospective students.
In 2018 LSE held information sessions in Ankara and Istanbul.
LSE visits Turkey regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/turkmenistan:
Turkmenistan Certificate of Completed Secondary Education The Certificate of Completed Secondary Education is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Turkmenistan Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, we would normally require a post 2007, 5 year specialist diploma (yokary bilim hakynda sahadatnama) or a master's with grades of 4.5/5 or good.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a UK taught master's degree with an overall merit (at least 65 per cent) or its non-UK equivalent and a strong merit or its equivalent in the master's dissertation in a subject relevant to the proposed research.
To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, we would normally require a post 2007, 5 year specialist diploma (yokary bilim hakynda sahadatnama) or a master's with grades of 4.5/5 or good.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a UK taught master's degree with an overall merit (at least 65 per cent) or its non-UK equivalent and a strong merit or its equivalent in the master's dissertation in a subject relevant to the proposed research.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/turks-and-caicos-islands:
In 2023, LSE welcomed one student from Turks and Caicos Islands, at graduate level.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Turks and Caicos Islands (Caribbean Entry) Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme, we would normally require a good upper second class (2:1) bachelor's degree or higher from the University of Technology, the University of the West Indies (UWI), or from another accredited tertiary institution which offers accepted qualifications.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/uganda:
In 2023, LSE welcomed three students from Uganda, two at undergraduate level and one at graduate level.
Equivalency of Uganda Advanced Certificate of Education (UACE) with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in Uganda Advanced Certificate of Education (UACE) A*AA, AAA, AAB AAA in three main subjects Mathematics A*/A Mathematics grade A If you are studying the above qualification and your application is competitive, you may also be requested to complete the Undergraduate Admissions Assessment (UGAA) before a final decision can be made on your application.
AAA in three main subjects
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Uganda Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's degree.
From a public institution, we would normally require a 2:1 with a GPA of 4/5.
From private institutions, we would normally require a 1st class with a GPA of 4.4/5.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require the Bachelor of Laws from Makerere University, Kampala, with at least a high 2:1 or GPA of 3.75/5.
From other institutions we would normally require a First-class degree.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s degree from a public institution and expect a merit.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's degree.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s degree from a public institution and expect a merit.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/ukraine:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 34 students from Ukraine, 10 at undergraduate level and 24 at graduate level.
Ukrainian Society Ukrainian society aims to promote Ukraine at the LSE and in the UK as well as provide a forum for Ukrainians and those interested in Ukraine at LSE.
Ukrainian society aims to promote Ukraine at the LSE and in the UK as well as provide a forum for Ukrainians and those interested in Ukraine at LSE.
Ukraine Attestat pro Povnu Zagal'nu Sersdniu Osvitu / Certificate of Complete General Secondary Education The Attestat pro Povnu Zagal'nu Sersdniu Osvitu / Certificate of Complete General Secondary Education are not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Attestat pro Povnu Zagal'nu Sersdniu Osvitu / Certificate of Complete General Secondary Education are not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Ukraine Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the post-bologna dyplom bakalavra or a dyplom spetsialista (when started after 2005) with an overall mark of 4.3/5, 3.3/4 or 80 per cent or 10/12.
Under the old system, we would normally require the dyplom magistra (when awarded before 2006) with an overall mark of 9/12 or 4/5.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require the Specialist law degree, completed after four or five years of study, with least 70 per cent of excellent grades (5) and the remaining good (4), or 90 per cent.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a dyplom magistra (master’s) when awarded after 2006.
We expect an overall grade of 4.5/5.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require the post-bologna dyplom bakalavra or a dyplom spetsialista (when started after 2005) with an overall mark of 4.3/5, 3.3/4 or 80 per cent or 10/12.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a dyplom magistra (master’s) when awarded after 2006.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/united-arab-emirates:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 100 students from United Arab Emirates, 54 at undergraduate level and 46 at graduate level.
LSE visited Dubai in October 2019.
United Arab Emirates school-leaving qualifications The United Arab Emirates school-leaving qualifications are not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The United Arab Emirates school-leaving qualifications are not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from the United Arab Emirates Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a four year bachelor's degree from a public or private institution accredited by the Commission for Academic Accreditation with an overall mark of 85 per cent, B+ or a GPA of 3.3/4.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first-class equivalent), we would normally require a four year bachelor's degree from a public or private institution accredited by the Commission for Academic Accreditation with an overall mark of 90 per cent, A or GPA of 3.7/4.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s degree in a relevant subject with an overall mark of 85 per cent, A- or a GPA of 3.6/4.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a four year bachelor's degree from a public or private institution accredited by the Commission for Academic Accreditation with an overall mark of 85 per cent, B+ or a GPA of 3.3/4.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master’s degree in a relevant subject with an overall mark of 85 per cent, A- or a GPA of 3.6/4.
LSE Events in the UAE LSE visits the UAE regularly to meet with prospective students.
In 2018 and 2019 LSE held information sessions in Dubai.
LSE visits the UAE regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/uruguay:
In 2023, LSE welcomed two students from Uruguay, at graduate level.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Uruguay Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a  título de licenciado  or  título de [+ occupational title] (awarded after four years) with a mark of 8.5/12, 85 per cent or a GPA of 4.5/6.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require the Doctor en Derecho or Doctor en Derecho y Ciencias Sociales with a mark of 8.5/12, 85 per cent or 4.5/6 overall.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a maestria or magister and expect an overall GPA of 4.5/6.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a  título de licenciado  or  título de [+ occupational title] (awarded after four years) with a mark of 8.5/12, 85 per cent or a GPA of 4.5/6.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a maestria or magister and expect an overall GPA of 4.5/6.
LSE Events in Uruguay LSE visits Uruguay regularly to meet with prospective students.
In 2018 LSE held an information session in Montevideo.
LSE visits Uruguay regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/united-states-of-america:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 951 students from USA, 282 at undergraduate level and 669 at graduate level.
Students@LSE Blogs Follow USA students Adriana , Anne , Anya , Claire , Emma , Grant , Iris , Jeff , Joyce , Lola , Maja and Skye as they blog about their journey at LSE.
Follow USA students Adriana , Anne , Anya , Claire , Emma , Grant , Iris , Jeff , Joyce , Lola , Maja and Skye as they blog about their journey at LSE.
Equivalency of Advanced Placement (AP) and SAT/ACT tests with GCE A levels Below we have listed our various A level grade requirements and their equivalency in the Advanced Placement (AP) and SAT/ACT tests.
Please note that the US High School Diploma by itself is not sufficient for entry to LSE.
A level grade Equivalent in the Advanced Placement (AP) tests A*AA, AAA Five APs at grade 5, taken over a maximum of three years and a minimum High School Diploma GPA 3.7 (subjects may be specified as part of an offer, see the note below about subject combinations).
Or a minimum High School Diploma GPA of 3.7, and an ACT score of 32+ or an SAT score of 1450+ (with AP Calculus BC at grade 5 for programmes with a Mathematics requirement).
AAB Three APs at grade 5, and two APs at grade 4, taken over a maximum of three years, and a minimum High School Diploma GPA of 3.7 (subjects may be specified as part of an offer , see the note below about subject combinations).
Or a minimum High School Diploma GPA of 3.7, and an ACT score of 30+ or an SAT score of 1400+ (with AP Calculus BC at grade 5 for programmes with a Mathematics requirement).
Mathematics A*/A Calculus BC grade 5 Subject combinations AP Seminar, AP Capstone and AP Research do not count towards our AP subject requirement.
Only one of AP Calculus AB or Calculus BC may count towards an offer.
LSE has a general preference for a broad mix of AP subjects.
AP Languages and Culture courses may be excluded where students have significant prior exposure to that language.
Declaration of AP results Applicants who fail to declare, or provide evidence, of all previous and cancelled AP results may have their application or offer withdrawn at any time.
UCAS and LSE require applicants to list all relevant qualifications and results.
Students applying from an American university Students applying from a university in the USA should have a minimum GPA of 3.5 (on a 4.0 scale), or above 4.0 (on a 5.0 scale), or a minimum average of 80 per cent overall.
We only accept the first year of a full bachelor’s degree, an associate’s degree is not acceptable for entry.
Below we have listed our various A level grade requirements and their equivalency in the Advanced Placement (AP) and SAT/ACT tests.
Five APs at grade 5, taken over a maximum of three years and a minimum High School Diploma GPA 3.7 (subjects may be specified as part of an offer, see the note below about subject combinations).
Three APs at grade 5, and two APs at grade 4, taken over a maximum of three years, and a minimum High School Diploma GPA of 3.7 (subjects may be specified as part of an offer , see the note below about subject combinations).
Calculus BC grade 5
Subject combinations
AP Seminar, AP Capstone and AP Research do not count towards our AP subject requirement.
Declaration of AP results
Applicants who fail to declare, or provide evidence, of all previous and cancelled AP results may have their application or offer withdrawn at any time.
Students applying from an American university
Students applying from a university in the USA should have a minimum GPA of 3.5 (on a 4.0 scale), or above 4.0 (on a 5.0 scale), or a minimum average of 80 per cent overall.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from the USA Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor's degree with a GPA of 3.3 on a 4 point scale as a minimum requirement, or 3.5/4.3, 4.3/5, 10/12 or 85 per cent overall.
If the only grading scheme used is a letter-grade system, we would normally require a B+ average.
To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme (first-class class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor's degree with a GPA of 3.7/4, on a 4 point scale, or 3.7/4.3, 11/12 or 90 per cent overall.
If the only grading scheme used is a letter-grade system, we would normally require a A- average.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require the Juris Doctor (JD) degree with a GPA of 3.5/4, 3.5/4.3 or a B+ average.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a two year master's degree with a GPA of 3.5/4, 4.3/5, or 85 per cent overall or, if a lettered grading scale is in place only, a B+ average.
To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a bachelor's degree with a GPA of 3.3 on a 4 point scale as a minimum requirement, or 3.5/4.3, 4.3/5, 10/12 or 85 per cent overall.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a two year master's degree with a GPA of 3.5/4, 4.3/5, or 85 per cent overall or, if a lettered grading scale is in place only, a B+ average.
LSE Events in the USA LSE visits the USA regularly to meet with prospective students.
In 2022 LSE held information sessions in Boston, New York, Washington DC.
LSE visits the USA regularly to meet with prospective students.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/uzbekistan:
In 2023, LSE welcomed six students from Uzbekistan, one at undergraduate level and five at graduate level.
Uzbekistan Certificate of Completed Secondary Education The Certificate of Completed Secondary Education is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Uzbekistan Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require the magister or specialist diploma (completed since 1991) with an overall mark of 4/5, an overall mark of 'credit' (zachet) or 80 per cent or above (good/yaxshi) on the recently introduced percentage grading scale.
Applicants with a bakalavr or specialist diploma (completed before 1991) may also be considered with exceptional marks of 90 per cent or above.
To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme (first-class equivalent), we would normally require a minimum of 90 per cent (excellent/a’lo).
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require the magistr diplomi or specialist diploma (completed since 1991).
We expect a minimum of 90 per cent (excellent/a’lo) or fanlari nomzodi/candidate of sciences (stage 1 of a two-tier PhD degree before 2013) with a minimum of 80 per cent (good/yaxshi).
To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require the magister or specialist diploma (completed since 1991) with an overall mark of 4/5, an overall mark of 'credit' (zachet) or 80 per cent or above (good/yaxshi) on the recently introduced percentage grading scale.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require the magistr diplomi or specialist diploma (completed since 1991).

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/venezuela:
In 2023, LSE welcomed four students from Venezuela, one at undergraduate level and three at graduate level.
Venezuela Título de Bachiller / Título de Técnico Medio The Venezuela Título de Bachiller and Título de Técnico Medio are not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Venezuela Título de Bachiller and Título de Técnico Medio are not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Venezuela Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a licenciatura or professional title (awarded after a minimum of four years) or the maestria (without thesis) with a minimum overall mark of 7/9, 75 per cent, 16/20 or 4/5.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (first-class equivalent), we would normally require a licenciatura or professional title (awarded after a minimum of four years) or the maestria (without thesis) with a minimum overall mark of 8/9, 80 per cent, 17/20 or 4.5/5.
To be considered for admission to a law taught master's programme, we would normally require the Abogado professional title, with a grade of 17/20.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree (maestria) with a thesis, and expect an overall grade of distinguido/very good.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme (upper second class equivalent), we would normally require a licenciatura or professional title (awarded after a minimum of four years) or the maestria (without thesis) with a minimum overall mark of 7/9, 75 per cent, 16/20 or 4/5.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree (maestria) with a thesis, and expect an overall grade of distinguido/very good.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/vietnam:
In 2023, LSE welcomed 29 students from Vietnam, 22 at undergraduate level and seven at graduate level.
Vietnam Society The Vietnam Society aims to promote Vietnamese culture in the multinational environment of LSE.
Not only do we provide a social forum for Vietnamese students within LSE, we also organise activities to introduce Vietnam to non-Vietnamese students, such as our annual cultural shows, Lunar New Year events with Vietnamese food, and support for keen travellers to Vietnam.
Students@LSE Blogs Follow Vietnamese undergraduate student Thu Nga (Emily) as she blogs about her journey at LSE.
The Vietnam Society aims to promote Vietnamese culture in the multinational environment of LSE.
Follow Vietnamese undergraduate student Thu Nga (Emily) as she blogs about her journey at LSE.
Vietnam Upper Secondary School Graduation Certificate (Tot Nghiep Pho Thong Trung Hoc) The Upper Secondary School Graduation Certificate (Tot Nghiep Pho Thong Trung Hoc) is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Upper Secondary School Graduation Certificate (Tot Nghiep Pho Thong Trung Hoc) is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Vietnam Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme (upper second class equivalence), we would normally require a master's degree/thac si with a grade of 7/10 (good) or a GPA of 3.2/4.
To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme (first-class equivalence), we would normally require a master's degree/thac si with a grade of 8/10 (good) or a GPA of 3.6/4.
Research programmes Applicants with the tien si (doctorate) will be considered on a case by case basis, and we would normally require an overall grade of 7/10.
To be considered for admission to a taught master’s programme (upper second class equivalence), we would normally require a master's degree/thac si with a grade of 7/10 (good) or a GPA of 3.2/4.
Applicants with the tien si (doctorate) will be considered on a case by case basis, and we would normally require an overall grade of 7/10.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/west-bank-east-jerusalem-and-gaza:
In 2023, LSE welcomed one student from West Bank, East Jerusalem & Gaza, at graduate level.
Palestine Society The LSESU Palestine Society is dedicated to Palestinian liberation, for Palestinians and non-Palestinians alike.
Join to learn more about Palestinian history and culture, and help support the cause.
The LSESU Palestine Society is dedicated to Palestinian liberation, for Palestinians and non-Palestinians alike.
Tawjihi Certificate of General Secondary Education and the Certificate of Vocational Secondary Education Graduate School The Tawjihi Certificate of General Secondary Education and the Certificate of Vocational Secondary Education Graduate School are not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Tawjihi Certificate of General Secondary Education and the Certificate of Vocational Secondary Education Graduate School are not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from the West Bank, East Jerusalem and Gaza Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's degree from a recognised institution with a minimum GPA of 3.3/4 or 85 per cent.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a two year master’s degree with an overall GPA of 3.5/4 or 85 per cent.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's degree from a recognised institution with a minimum GPA of 3.3/4 or 85 per cent.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a two year master’s degree with an overall GPA of 3.5/4 or 85 per cent.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/yemen:
In 2023, LSE welcomed one student from Yemen, at graduate level.
Yemen Secondary School Certificate of Education The Secondary School Certificate of Education is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Secondary School Certificate of Education is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Yemen Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a master's degree with a mark of 90 per cent overall or an overall mark of excellent.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a master's degree with a mark of 90 per cent overall or an overall mark of excellent.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/zambia:
In 2023, LSE welcomed three students from Zambia, one at undergraduate level and two at graduate level.
Zambia School Certificate The Zambia School Certificate is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
The Zambia School Certificate is not acceptable as an entry qualification for LSE.
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Zambia Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a master’s degree with an overall grade of merit, B+, 70 per cent or a GPA of 3.5/4.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a master’s degree with an overall grade of merit, B+, 70 per cent or a GPA of 3.5/4.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/international-students/country-pages/zimbabwe:
In 2023, LSE welcomed four students from Zimbabwe, two at undergraduate level and two at graduate level.
Equivalency of ZIMSEC A levels with GCE A levels A level grade Equivalent in ZIMSEC A levels (only acceptable at Principal level) A*AA, AAA AAA (A* grade not available) AAB AAB Mathematics A*/A Mathematics grade A In terms of academic achievement, our entry requirements vary by programme, and are listed on the individual undergraduate degree programme webpages .
AAA (A* grade not available)
Graduate entry requirements for applicants from Zimbabwe Taught master's programmes To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's (honours) degree from a recognised institution.
We would normally require a 2:1 with an overall mark of at least 65 per cent.
Please note a bachelor's (general) degree is not adequate for admission to postgraduate study.
Research programmes To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree and expect merit.
To be considered for admission to a taught master's programme, we would normally require a bachelor's (honours) degree from a recognised institution.
To be considered for admission to a research programme, we would normally require a master's degree and expect merit.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/student-life/London-life/London-on-a-budget:
LSE broadly estimates that students should allow £1,400-£1,500 per month for all living expenses, including accommodation, travel, food, laundry, study costs, and other personal expenses.
When you're preparing to come to university, it's key that you investigate possible sources of funding and income, and make a budget to estimate how much you can expect to spend.
It’s tempting to go on a spending spree when your student loan or salary comes in to your bank account – but it’s a smart move to make sure the money lasts until the next instalment.
You can save a lot of money and make sure you live within your means by making a budget.
Also, if you're an overseas student and require a student visa, as part of these requirements, you must ensure that you have sufficient funds for the first year of tuition fees and up to nine months of living costs, and provide evidence of these funds.
See the guidance from our International Student Visa and Advice Team .
It’s well worth spending the time to find out how much funding you can get.
Options include scholarships and financial support from LSE, from the UK government, and from other governments and other funding bodies.
Many LSE students have a part-time job – it's a great way to enhance your CV as well as make some extra cash.
See below for more about part-time work opportunities.
In the different sections below you'll find details about how much you can expect to spend on different elements of student life.
As well as regular weekly and monthly costs for living expenses such as groceries and accommodation, it's also important to take into account any one-off arrival costs when calculating your budget.
This could include deposits for accommodation, temporary accommodation if you arrive in London before you can move into your permanent residence, or domestic items such as bedding, furniture or kitchen utensils.
LSE provides a range of accommodation options, with varying costs depending on location, room type and facilities.
Halls of residence fees include utility bills, internet access and contents insurance.
In catered halls, one or two of your daily meals will be included, while in self-catered halls, you will need to buy your own groceries.
You may need to set aside a small amount each month for use of the laundry facilities, and any personal bills such as a mobile phone bill or TV licence.
You can pay for your halls of residence fees upfront or in three termly instalments.
More information about fees in halls of residence
You can also choose to live in private housing in London.
In fact, most second and third year undergraduate students and a number of graduate students will live in private housing.
Private housing costs can also vary considerably depending on location and accommodation type, but start at approximately £500 per month.
A benefit of the School’s central location is that the campus is easily accessible from all corners of London, so you can allow greater flexibility when searching for the right place.
More information about private housing and the costs
If you're staying at an LSE or Intercollegiate Hall of Residence, many are within walking distance of campus.
If you're living in private accommodation, it's likely you will be living further out and relying on public transport regularly.
Either way, London is a large city and we recommend you factor travel costs into your budget.
The main forms of public transport are the London Underground (the "Tube"), buses and taxis.
The transport system uses "zones" to determine how much you pay - central London is Zone 1, with higher zones the further out you travel.
LSE, our accommodation and most cultural attractions are within Zone 1 and 2, but if you're living in private accommodation you may need to travel out to Zone 4, depending on where you live.
As a student, you are entitled to receive 30 per cent off standard Tube and bus fares if you purchase a Student Oyster Card.
A young persons railcard and a young persons coach card are also available to full-time students, which provide discounts on train and coach travel throughout the UK.
You might also choose to save money by cycling - there is a public cycle hire scheme in London, or you can use your own bicycle.
Food costs will account for a significant part of your budget.
We estimate that students will spend £100-£300 per month on food, depending on whether you live in catered or self-catered halls, or whether you live in private accommodation.
There are steps you can take to reduce your food expenditure, like shopping at local markets, shopping and cooking with your flatmates (or neighbours in Halls), and bringing a packed lunch to university.
There are microwaves, fridges and hot water facilities on campus for those bringing their own food in.
The Undergraduate Common Room is one example, located on the fourth floor of the Old Building.
Make a menu and a shopping list before you go to the supermarket, to avoid impulse buys and to make sure you only buy what you need.
If you do decide to eat out on campus, make sure to check if the restaurant offers any student discounts.
Of course you will need to think about the tuition fees for your programme.
Detailed information about tuition fees for each programme and funding opportunities can be found on the individual programme pages.
Also make sure you look at the below information.
Study costs include books, stationery and any other equipment to assist you with your studies.
You can save a lot of money by buying your books second-hand from previous students.
The Library also stocks multiple copies of core and recommended readings (as well as single copies of more specialist books).
A large amount of reading material is now also available online.
However, you may prefer to purchase your own and many companies do offer a student discount.
Graduation may seem like a long way off to new students but it is worth considering the associated costs, especially if you are only with us for a year as a master’s student.
Gowns are provided by Ede & Ravenscroft, and are cheapest when booked online in advance.
Photography services are provided by Tempest and picture prices range from £17.50 - £153.50 depending on the size and frame.
You will also need to consider how you will budget for things like clothing, gym memberships, nights out, mobile phone bills, or anything else you will want to buy.
Remember that students are often entitled to discounts.
Totum will give you access to discounts across clothing, food, technology and socialising.
Even if a company isn’t signed up with Totum, ask them if they give a student discount – many places will give you money off so long as you show your LSE ID.
The ISIC card is an internationally recognised discount card which provides discounts on a range of services and products.
Groupon also has a range of discounts.
Unidays and Student Beans are popular with students, offering discounts on a range of different things, from clothes to food and gym memberships.
The LSE Students' Union offers a lot of societies, activities and social events free or at cheap rates.
London is also full of free activities - for example, most museums are free to enter.
Time Out is a great way to hear about entertaining and cheap things to do.
Find out more about key London attractions and experiences .
London has thousands of part-time opportunities which can fit around your studies (we recommend working no more than 15 hours a week).
Remember that London jobs will also have higher wages than the rest of the country.
Read student Sarah's guide on working part-time jobs as an LSE student .
You could work in a bar, restaurant or shop – or go for something a bit different, like stewarding at a London theatre or being a tour guide at a museum.
LSE also has lots of opportunities on campus – we need Student Ambassadors, Event Stewards and SU staff.
Read student Sofia's blog on part-time job opportunities on campus .
LSE Careers can help you find a part-time position as soon as you register as a student – they advertise part-time jobs on and off campus and run events and one-to-one appointments on CVs, cover letters and applications.
Read our students@LSE blog for the latest tips on how to live in London as a student on a budget and where to find the best and most affordable places to shop and dine.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Undergraduate/fees-and-funding/LSE-Bursaries:
Undergraduate students with Home fee status are eligible for a non-repayable LSE Bursary depending on their household income.
LSE Discretionary Bursaries are also available to UK undergraduate students with exceptional financial need.
Home fee status undergraduate students are eligible for an LSE Bursary depending on their household income.
Eligibility is assessed annually.
There is no limit to the number of LSE Bursaries available.
All students who are eligible for an LSE Bursary will receive one.
The LSE Bursary does not have to be repaid.
LSE Bursary amounts for new entrants from the 2025/26 academic year onwards:
LSE Bursary values
£0 - £30,000
£4,250
£30,001 - £35,000
£3,000
£35,001 - £40,000
£2,250
£40,001 - £50,000
£1,250
LSE Bursary amounts for continuing students who began their undergraduate programme in the 2024/25 academic year or earlier:
Student's household income (as assessed by Student Finance)
LSE Bursary value (per year)
£0 - £18,000
£4,000
£18,001 - £25,000
£3,500
£25,001 - £30,000
£1,500
£35,001 - £42,875
£500
Home fee status students
Home fee status students who make an application for UK government student finance do not have to apply separately for the LSE Bursary.
In order for LSE to consider you for the LSE Bursary, you should apply to Student Finance for the Income Assessed Maintenance Loan (even if you do not plan on taking up the loan you are eligible for); Student Finance will collect information about your household income and work out your residual income.
Student Finance then pass this information (with your consent) to LSE for consideration of the LSE Bursary.
We will use the financial information you provide to Student Finance when applying for your maintenance loan to determine your Bursary value.
Please make sure you consent to share the information you and your parent or guardian provide to Student Finance so that we are able to assess your eligibility.
When your maintenance loan amount gets approved, you can select to take out zero amount (if you do not wish to take up the loan at all), or any amount up to the approved maximum.
You will be notified before the start of your degree programme of your LSE Bursary award, through a letter from Student Finance sent on behalf of LSE.
The LSE Bursary will then be paid into your bank account in three termly instalments.
The first instalment will be paid in the October of the first term once you have registered at LSE.
LSE Bursaries are paid by electronic transfer directly into your bank/building society account.
It is essential that Student Finance have the correct details of your bank/building society account in order to make the payment.
This information is required well in advance of your programme start date.
Current LSE students
Current LSE students may also apply during the academic year, even if you have not previously applied.
If you think you are entitled to an LSE Bursary but have not received your notification letter by the end of the Autumn Term you should contact the Financial Support Office .
Please note that if you contact us after the end of Winter Term, we will not be able to award an LSE Bursary for the current the academic year.
The final date to be considered for an LSE Bursary for the 2024/25 academic year is 28 March 2025 .
LSE Discretionary Bursaries are available to Home fee status students with exceptional financial need.
They are intended as a top up to the standard LSE Bursary, or can be awarded if a student’s household income falls outside of the sliding scales.
You must have applied for all statutory support available to you from Student Finance to be considered for an LSE Discretionary Bursary.
If you are already entitled to the maximum value LSE Bursary we are unable to award an LSE Discretionary Bursary.
LSE Discretionary Bursaries are awarded in exceptional circumstances.
This might include for example, caring responsibilities, financial need related to disability, etc.
The value of the award may vary according to need but is not expected to exceed a total that exceeds the maximum value of LSE Bursary.
The LSE Bursary scales will be used to calculate your entitlement, however you can apply for an LSE Discretionary Bursary if your family’s income does not reflect their ability to support you.
To be considered for an LSE Discretionary Bursary you will need to complete the LSE Undergraduate Scholarship application.
If you would like to be considered for other scholaships as well, you will also need to submit an academic reference with the LSE Undergraduate Scholarship Application.
For more information, please visit our How to apply for undergraduate funding page.
You will be notified of the outcome of your application for a LSE Discretionary Bursary once we have had confirmation of your LSE Bursary entitlement.
This is likely to be October once you have registered at LSE.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Undergraduate/fees-and-funding/LSE-scholarships-Home-students:
Each year LSE awards a number of scholarships, funded by private or corporate donations.
All scholarships are awarded on the basis of financial circumstances in the first instance, and secondly take into account academic merit.
By submitting your completed LSE Undergraduate Scholarship Application, you will be considered for any LSE scholarships for which you are eligible.
For more information, please visit the scholarship page for each award.
Christ's Undergraduate Scholarship for UK students
Davina Francescotti Scholarship
Golden Scholarship
Goldman Sachs Gives (UK) - Alumni and Friends of the Department of Mathematics at LSE Undergraduate Scholarship
Nehru Shanker Patel Scholarship
New Futures Fund Scholarships
Pass the Torch Scholarship
Peter Bence Scholarship
The London Business Forum Scholarship in Government
Uggla Family Scholars Programme
UK Undergraduate Scholarship
Unless otherwise stated on the individual scholarship page, awards are applied for through the LSE Undergraduate Scholarship application form.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/prices-and-payments/accommodation-bursary-scheme:
This page explains what the LSE Accommodation Bursary is and what you need to do to be considered.
LSE Accommodation Bursaries are available for UK nationals from lower-income households to help towards the cost of halls of residence.
The amount you can receive depends on the number of students who qualify for the bursary.
In 2025/26, the following bursaries are expected to be awarded.
To be considered for a bursary:
To be eligible you need to:
Apply for a Maintenance Loan with your regional student finance agency and opt to be means tested.
You do not need to apply separately for an LSE Accommodation Bursary.
They will assess you for a Maintenance Loan and an LSE Accommodation Bursary at the same time.
Check with your regional student finance agency for information about their application process and deadlines:
The bursary can be used for any room type at:
We will notify you in September if you have been awarded the bursary and confirm the amount.
If you have been awarded a bursary, it will be credited against your Spring Term accommodation fees.
If the amount you receive covers more than that, we'll credit any surplus against your Winter Term fees.
If there is still a surplus, we'll credit it against your Autumn Term fees.
For payment deadlines, see: How to pay for your accommodation .
Even if you haven't heard from us yet, go ahead and make your booking, pay your deposit and accept your Confirmation of Accommodation Document.
If at that point you would like to cancel, please let us know by email.
Provided you have applied for Maintenance Loan with your regional finance agency, we will refund your deposit and release you from your contract.
If you want to cancel after receiving confirmation of your award, please email accommodation@lse.ac.uk .
To receive a refund, you must let us know before the official moving-in date at your hall .
For information about other scholarships, bursaries and loans at LSE, visit: Fees and funding

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Undergraduate/fees-and-funding/Care-Experienced-and-Estranged-Student-Bursary:
The bursary is available to new students from the 2024-25 academic year onwards.
The Care Experienced and Estranged Student Bursary has a value of £1,000 per year, for a maximum of 4 years of study.
The Care Experienced and Estranged Student Bursary does not need to be repaid to LSE and is offered in addition to any other LSE financial support you are awarded.
To support with the costs associated with starting at university, you will receive £500 of your first year bursary payment in advance of the start of the academic year.
To be eligible for the Care Experienced and Estranged Student Bursary, you must be:
If you have a question about your eligibility for this bursary, please email financial-support@lse.ac.uk.
When you complete your UCAS application form, you will have the opportunity to share with your chosen universities whether you have been in care, or are estranged from your parents or carers.
The question for care experienced students is ‘Have you been in care?’ and for estranged students ‘Would you consider yourself estranged from your parents?’
The LEAPS website contains video guides to locating completing both the care experienced and estranged student declarations.
If you answer ‘Yes’ to either of these questions, the information will be shared with LSE and you will automatically receive the Care Experienced and Estranged Student Bursary when you enrol at LSE.
If you are eligible for the Care Experienced and Estranged Student Bursary, you should consider applying for other financial support offered by LSE.
More information can be found on our fees and funding pages .
For more information about additional support given to care experienced students at all stages of the higher education journey, please visit our Care Experienced Students page .

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Undergraduate/fees-and-funding/LSE-financial-support-Overseas-students:
Each year LSE awards a number of scholarships, funded by the School, or by private or corporate donations.
For more information and to apply, please visit the scholarship page for each award.
The Beacon Scholarship at LSE
Bluemoon Foundation Scholarship Fund
Goldman Sachs – Kyri Loupis Scholarship
Kadas Scholarship
LSE Mauritius Scholarship
LSE Stelios Scholarships
LSE Undergraduate Support Scheme
Pestalozzi International Scholarship
Rajeeb Mukherjee Memorial Scholarship
Singapore LSE Trust Undergraduate Scholarship
Stonex Undergraduate Scholarship for EU Students
Zygmunt Gasiorowski Scholarship Fund

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Undergraduate/fees-and-funding/access-to-education-undergraduate-scholarships:
LSE offers awards which can cover full tuition fees and living costs for those holding an offer of admission to an LSE undergraduate programme, who meet the eligibility criteria.
Students in one of the following categories are eligible to be considered for one of these scholarships:
Priority will be given to those who are unable to access funding from Student Finance England (or its national equivalent In Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland), but each case will be assessed on need.
Full and partial awards will be made to cover tuition fees (either at the Home or Overseas rate) and living costs for the length of the undergraduate programme.
For more information on applying for this award, please visit our How to apply for undergraduate funding page.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/The-General-Course/scholarships-and-fees:
The General Course tuition fee for students applying directly to LSE for the 2025/26 academic year is £28,100.
The tuition fee is the same for all General Course students, regardless of nationality or residence.
As a guide, General Course students should budget for the following over the 39 weeks they will be in London, but bear in mind that this is only a guide and excludes one-off costs such as flights.
The total cost of studying in London will depend upon your lifestyle so we recommend all students produce their own personal budget:
Financial support
There is a range of financial support available to General Course students:
LSE is pleased to offer a number of scholarships for students accepted on to the General Course in 2025/26.
These scholarships were created by a generous donation from the John and Amy Phelan Family Foundation.
The John C Phelan General Course Scholarships are available to any applicant, of any nationality, who secures a place on the General Course programme and accepts their offer.
The scholarships will be awarded primarily on the basis of financial need.
Apply by downloading, completing and submitting the General Course Scholarship Application Form by 25 April 2025 .
If you have any questions, please email gc@lse.ac.uk .
Please ensure that you read the guidance on the last page of the application form.
Please return your completed application by email to financial-support@lse.ac.uk by 25 April 2025 .
We cannot accept hard copy applications.
BUTEX offers a number of scholarships for undergraduate students currently registered at an institution in the USA or Canada.
If you are a prospective General Course student and you wish to apply you must already have been offered a place at LSE.
The value of each scholarship is £500 and will be paid once you have arrived and registered at the School.
Payment will be made to a UK bank account.
More information , including how to apply , can be found at the BUTEX website .
The Gilman International Scholarship Program offers scholarships for U.S.
citizen undergraduate students of limited financial means to pursue academic studies abroad.
Award recipients receive up to $5,000 toward their study abroad program costs, including program fees; tuition; room and board; airfare; books, and local transportation.
More information, including how to apply, can be found here .
As an applicant to the Fund for Education Abroad (FEA), you are considered for a number of scholarships worth up to $10,000, along with the FEA General Scholarships.
Each applicant must submit a completed application form (including two essays); their unofficial transcript; a financial aid form, and request a letter of recommendation.
Federal loans
The School is a registered institution for most types of US and Canadian student loans.
Students taking the General Course as part of their degree course at a university in the USA/Canada may qualify for federal loans from their home university, as the General Course counts as a 'year abroad'.
For further information, students should speak to the study abroad / international programs office at their home institution.
The LSE US Student Loans reference number is G06693.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Undergraduate/fees-and-funding/uggla-family-scholarships:
The Uggla Family Scholars Programme is delighted to provide up to ten undergraduate scholarships every year for students from underrepresented backgrounds, including financial support and mentorship throughout your studies at LSE.
Alongside financial support, discover the coaching and mentorship available as part of the Programme
Blogs, vlogs, virtual events and more
Find out what your next steps should be as you prepare
Attend an in-person or virtual open day to learn about undergraduate study at LSE
Student Recruitment and Study Abroad: +44 (0)20 7955 6613
For prospective students: www.lse.ac.uk/ask-LSE
For scholarship applicants: financial-support@lse.ac.uk
London School of Economics and Political Science, Houghton Street, London, WC2A 2AE

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Graduate/fees-and-funding/contact-details:
Please use our online query form to submit any queries you have.
Our telephone lines are open 10am to 12pm and 2pm to 4pm, Monday to Friday.
Our telephone number is +44 (0)20 7955 6609.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Graduate/fees-and-funding/secure/graduate-support-scheme:
LSE makes available approximately £3million annually in the form of awards from the Graduate Support Scheme (GSS) for students with Home or Overseas fee status applying for diploma and taught master's programmes.
After you submit your application for admission to LSE, you will be given access to the Graduate Application Portal.
This allows you to track all aspects of your application for admission and will include a link to the LSE Graduate Financial Support online application.
We will use the information you submit to consider you for an award from the Graduate Support Scheme and by completing the personal statement section, for any other LSE scholarships and awards you may be eligible for.
This scheme is open to all applicants for diploma and taught master's study, with the exception of those undertaking specific modular or executive programmes such as the MSc Finance (Part time), the MSc Health Economics, Policy and Management and the MSc International Strategy and Diplomacy.
Double degree students are also eligible for the GSS for their time at LSE - please refer to the information in the 'GSS for double degree programmes' section.
The value of GSS awards ranges from £5,000 to £15,000, depending on financial need.
This scheme is aimed at supplementing applicants who already have some form of funding secured and need a bit more to cover all the costs at LSE.
If you have a greater need, and you submit a personal statement with your Graduate Financial Support Application, you will be considered for other LSE scholarships which can offer a higher level of funding.
After you submit your application for admission to LSE, you will be given access to the Graduate Applicant Portal .
The deadline for completing the form for those starting at LSE in 2025 is 07 May 2025 (application will close at 5pm UK time).
This deadline has been extended from 06 May due to a technical issue which prevented some candidates from accessing the application system.
In order to be considered for funding, you must have received either an unconditional or a conditional offer of a place by 07 May 2025.
After submitting your Graduate Financial Support application, please allow up to 24 hours to receive a decision on your application.
We recommend that your application for admission is submitted well in advance of the deadline.
Read the guidance on when to apply for admission .
Funds are limited and we recommend you apply for funding as soon as possible.
We will use the information on the form to consider you for the Graduate Support Scheme and if you complete the personal statement section, for any other LSE scholarships and awards you may be eligible for.
Your financial information will not be considered as part of your application for a place at the School.
How to complete the LSE Graduate Financial Support Application
If you hold an offer of admission and submit the Graduate Financial Support Application you will normally receive an outcome decision on your eligibility for a Graduate Support Scheme (GSS) Award normally after 24 hours via the Graduate Applicant Portal .
This is because the online application is able to automatically calculate an outcome from all the specific information you will have entered into the form.
Please do not contact us before you receive a formal offer of admission.
If you do not receive an offer of admission, the data you have submitted will be destroyed.
If you are offered a GSS award this will be shown via the Graduate Applicant Portal .
You will not normally be considered for any further funding from LSE, as a GSS award will cover 100% of your funding shortfall as calculated by the Graduate Financial Support application.
If your financial circumstances, fee status, mode of study or programme of study changes, any award will be reviewed and may be amended or withdrawn.
Further information on the terms and conditions attached to all Graduate Support Scheme awards: Graduate Support Scheme award conditions
Unfortunately we do not have sufficient funding to be able to support as many applicants as we would like with awards from the Graduate Support Scheme.
Competition for scholarships at Masters level is very strong.
If you are not offered a GSS award, you will be considered for all the other LSE awards for which you are eligible, using the information you provided on the Graduate Financial Support Application.
We will only write to successful applicants regarding the outcome of these awards.
Successful applicants will be contacted throughout May and June as decisions are made, we hope to have notified all successful applicants by the end of July 2025.
If you have not heard from the Financial Support Office by 31 July 2025, then unfortunately your application has been unsuccessful.
Please note that LSE expects all students who register on a programme of study, regardless of its duration, to have sufficient secured funds to cover both their fees and living costs for the duration of their programme.
There is no opportunity to apply to the GSS or for an LSE Scholarship once you have enrolled at the School.
If you are an applicant to a double degree programmes, you are eligible to apply to the LSE Graduate Support Scheme for Year 2 at LSE.
You will be invited to submit an LSE Graduate Financial Support Application during your first year (whilst at LSE's partner institution).
Applicants to any double degree programmes where you study at LSE for Year 1, should apply for LSE funding in the standard way referred to above.
Please note that LSE expects all students who register on a programme of study, regardless of its duration or whether one or more years takes place at a partner institution, to register with sufficient funds for the duration of their programme.
Since there is no guarantee of receiving funding from the Graduate Support Scheme for the second year of your programme, it is important that you consider alternative options to ensure you can finance two years of study.
Please note this process has now been closed for the 2025/26 academic session.
This process has now been closed for the 2025/26 academic session.
We can only re-consider your eligibility to the Graduate Support Scheme in the event that your circumstances have substantially changed since the submission of your LSE Graduate Financial Support Application and you are able to provide specific additional information to support this, e.g.
changes to any figures that make up your secured funding.
Please submit the Additional Information Form below detailing the change(s) and any additional information you can provide.
This will be reviewed along with your original application and you will be contacted by email with an update to your outcome.
You can also submit this form to advise us of any change in your refugee status or if you are an asylum seeker.
Please note that the final date that we can accept Additional Information Forms from 2025 applicants is 07 May 2025.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Graduate/fees-and-funding/lse-masters-awards:
LSE Master’s Awards (LMAs) are part of LSE’s portfolio of funding for taught master’s students.
The primary scheme for these students is the Graduate Support Scheme (GSS), which is designed to supplement other funding secured by a candidate (by way of savings, loans and external scholarships).
Shortlisting for donor-funded scholarships starts with the list of offer holders whose financial need is too great for the GSS, who have indicated on their financial support application that they wish to be considered for other scholarships and have provided further information in the personal statement of the LSE Graduate Financial Support Application.
As these scholarships vary from year to year, a fund is set aside to provide a number of LMAs for those candidates who are not eligible for the available scholarships, because of their restricted criteria.
Please see the 'How to apply for a scholarship ' page for further information about applications and deadlines.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Graduate/fees-and-funding/Donor-funded-awards-for-Home-fee-status-students:
The Anne Bohm Scholarship
Jennifer Pinney Masters Scholarship
The John J Kerr Jr Scholarship
Raph Appadoo Scholarship
William Simpson Scholarship Fund

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Graduate/fees-and-funding/Department-or-programme-specific-funding:
Syracuse Advisers Family Office Scholarship
Christina and Alan MacDonald Graduate Scholarship
Goldman Sachs Gives (UK) - Oppenheimer MSc in Financial History Scholarship
Adeline and Karl Goeltz Scholarship Fund
Desmond G.
Wiltshaw Scholarship Fund
Robert C Douglas Scholarship in Economics
Ceresio Scholarship
AKO European Institute Master's Scholarship
Antoine Faure-Grimaud Scholarship
Sudipto Bhattacharya Scholarship
Women in Finance Scholarship
No awards currently
Oram-Stott-Schlusche Scholarship
Woo Family Scholarship
Carsten Stoehr MSc Scholarship in Government
Joint Japan World Bank Graduate Scholarship Programme
PIC Master's Studentship Scheme
Wellcome Award - MSc in Health and international Development
The Joseph and Andrea Cunningham Scholarship
Laura Cha (Shi Mei Lun) Scholarship
Marchant Foundation LLM Scholarship
Margaret Bennet LLM Scholarship
Claudio Ciborra Scholarship Fund
Goldman Sachs Gives (UK) - Alumni and Friends of the Department of Mathematics at LSE Master's Scholarship
Rankin Frost Scholarship
Robert A.
Peterson Scholarship in Global Media and Communications
AKO Master's Scholarships
Himmelweit Scholarship
David and Duncan Clark Scholarship
Hosh Ibrahim African Scholarship
Luksic Scholarship for Public Service
Peruvian Scholarship for Public Service
Alf Waddington Scholarship
Ann Denis Scholarship
Residential Atlantic Fellowship in Social and Economic Equity
Sir Siegmund Warburg Scholarship

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Graduate/fees-and-funding/anniversary-scholarships:
Anniversary Scholarships are available for taught master's students from the UK.
Awards will vary in value and are based on financial need.
This scholarship is available for taught master's students from the UK and follow the same guidelines for the Graduate Support Scheme.
Unfortunately applicants undertaking specific modular or executive programmes such as the MSc Finance (Part time) or the MSc Health Economics, Policy and Management are not eligible for these scholarships.
The awards will vary in value, based on financial need, and are designed to help with fees and/or living costs.
The minimum award will be £5,000 and the maximum award will be worth £15,000.
Selection for these awards will be based on the application to the Graduate Support Scheme

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Graduate/fees-and-funding/access-to-education:
LSE has set aside a significant amount of funding to provide scholarships for asylum seekers and refugees.
Scholarships are available to cover tuition fees and up to £14,400 in maintenance costs for offer holders who have the following classification:
Priority will be given to those who are applying for their first master's progamme and to recent graduates who were eligible for maintenance support during their undergraduate studies on the basis of their financial circumstances.
For more information on applying for this scholarship, including deadlines, please see our page How to apply for a scholarship .
When completing your Graduate Financial Support Application, you should use the personal statement section to fully explain your circumstances and, if applicable, what stage you are at in the procress of applying for refugee status.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Graduate/fees-and-funding/pgt-country-a-c:
The following organisations offer scholarships to support programmes of study at LSE.
Please contact them for further information.
Association of Commonwealth Universities
British Chevening Scholarships LSE contributes 20% to the tuition fee of Chevening Awardees and will support the full tuition fees for those selected for a Chevening Partnership award.
Commonwealth Shared Scholarship Scheme
Commonwealth Scholarships
Joint Japan World Bank Graduate Scholarship Program
The Ambassador E.O.
Kolade Scholarship
More information about Joint Japan/World Bank Graduate Scholarship Program
More information about the Margaret Bennett Scholarship
More information about the Mohammed Al Fahim Scholarship
More information on The Ambassador E.O.
More information about the Canon Collins Trust
More information about the David and Duncan Clark Scholarship
More information on the Rezaur Rahman Scholarship Fund
More information about Firoz and Najma Foundation Scholarship
More information can be found on the Fundação Estudar website.
More information can be found on the Instituto Ling website.
More information about the Charles Wallace Burma Trust
More information about the CV Starr Scholarship
The Canadian Centennial Scholarship Fund (CCSF) award opens Tuesday 9 January 2024 for submissions from all Canadian students pursuing full-time, multi-year (2 years or more) postgraduate programmes in any field of study.
The CCSF will grant a number of £5,000 scholarships.
Last year the CCSF granted awards totalling £70,000 to 14 postgraduate students.
Further information and details on how to apply may be obtained from the CCSF website at Canadian Centennial Scholarship
The deadline for applications is Monday 11 March 2024 at midnight UK time .
More information about the Robert C Douglas Scholarship in Economics
BUTEX (British Universities Transatlantic Exchange Association) offers eight scholarships for undergraduate students currently registered at an institution in the USA or Canada.
More information about the Butex Scholarships
The LGAC awards Scholarships towards the cost of accommodation at Goodenough College , the pre-eminent residential college for international graduate students in London.
The LGAC is an association of Canadian former students who lived in the College's residences.
More information about the London Goodenough Association of Canada Scholarship Programme
LSE has had a long standing agreement to contribute 20 per cent of the total tuition fee liability for scholars who have been approved by funding by ANID (formally CONICYT) under their standard award programme.
ANID cover the remaining fee balance.
ANID normally expect their awards to be repaid following graduation; however the LSE contribution is not repayable.
For further information, please refer to their website .
More information on the Luksic Scholarships
More information about the Henry Lester Trust
More information about the K&K LSE Scholarship
More information on the Laura Cha Scholarship
More information on the Lee Scholarships
More information on the Woo Family Scholarship
More information on the COLFUTURO Scholarships

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Graduate/fees-and-funding/pgt-country-d-k:
More information on the Lee Scholarships
More information on the Diana LEE WONG Pui Yue Scholarship
More information about the Sir Edward Youde Memorial Fellowships
More information about the Sir Robert Black Trust Fund Postgraduate Scholarships
More information about the Inlaks Foundation
More information about the J N Tata Endowment Scholarships
More information about the Lady Meherbai Tata Education Trust
More information about the Marchant Foundation LLM Scholarship
More information on the Taught Master's Scholarship for International Students
See Sir Siegmund Warburg Scholarship for more information.
More information about the Saïd Foundation Scholarship
More information about the Sir Siegmund Warburg Scholarship

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Graduate/fees-and-funding/pgt-country-l-q:
More information about the Beit Trust
CONAHCYT (Consejo Nacional de Humanidades, Ciencias y Tecnologías) offers scholarships to Mexican students to study postgraduate programmes in the UK.
LSE supports CONAHCYT sponsored applicants with a 30% reduction to the tuition fees for their programme.
Those undertaking executive or modular programmes are not eligible for the LSE 30% tuition fee award.
Applications are made directly to CONAHCYT.
Any applicant who is selected by CONAHCYT and receives an offer of admission from LSE will then qualify for the fee reduction scholarship.
More information about CONAHCYT
LSE offers awards worth 25% of the tuition fee in conjunction with the Banco De Mexico (FIDERH) to scholars sponsored by their standard award programme.
These awards are available for Mexican students undertaking any Master's or PhD programme.
Those undertaking executive or modular programmes are not eligible for the LSE 25% tuition fee award.
Applications are made directly to FIDERH.
Any applicants who are selected by FIDERH and receive an offer of admission will then qualify for the 25% tuition fee award.
More information about FIDERH
FUNED is  a foundation that helps Mexican applicants to study in the UK by providing low cost loans.
Applicants who are supported by FUNED will receive a 25% fee only award towards any Masters programme at LSE.
Successful applicants are selected by FUNED and those that receive an offer of admission from LSE will qualify for the fee reduction scholarship.
More information about FUNED
Please note only one of these partnership fee reduction awards can be held during a programme at LSE.
This scholarship is available for an applicant who is a national of and domiciled in the Middle East or North Africa (Arab League member states, Iran, Israel and Turkey) to support the costs for any taught master's programme from 2022 entry onwards.
The Canon Collins Trust provides scholarships to students from/in the countries of southern Africa who wish to pursue a postgraduate degree in the UK.
Both partial grants and full scholarships are awarded annually.
More information about the State Education Loan Fund
More information about the Anne Marie Schimmel Scholarship
More information about the Charles Wallace Pakistan Trust
More information about HESPAL
More information about the Sir Siegmund Warburg Scholarship
More information about the Peruvian Scholarship for Public Service

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Graduate/fees-and-funding/pgt-country-r-z:
More information about KASP.
More information about the Public Service Commission (PSC) Scholarships
More information about the Tan Kah Kee Foundation Postgraduate Scholarship
More information about the Francesca Swirski Scholarship
Further information on the scholarships and how to apply can be found on the World Wide Studies for Ukraine website .
More information about the Alumni and Friends of LSE Scholarship
More information on the Estate of Charles J Mauro Scholarship
More information about the Fulbright Awards Programme
LSE is recognised as one of the UK institutions eligible for Fulbright Awards to cover MSc study.
More information about the Fulbright LSE Postgrad Award
The Fulbright Commission is offering one award to pursue a one-year master's degree programme (or the first year of a master's degree programme) in any discipline at LSE.
Details of how to apply can be found here .
More information about the Jack Kent Cooke Foundation's Graduate Scholarship Programme
More information about the Joseph and Andrea Cunningham Scholarship
More information about Marshall Scholarships
More information on the Oram-Stott-Schlusche Scholarship
More information on the Spangenberg Family Foundation Scholarship
More information about Syracuse Advisers Family Office Scholarship
More information about The Beit Trust

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Graduate/fees-and-funding/pgt-application-overview:
Please find more information below regarding the application process for graduate study financial support.
Once you submit your application for admission to LSE, you will be given access to the Graduate Applicant Portal .
This allows you to track all aspects of your application for admission and will include a link to the Graduate Financial Support Application.
Unless otherwise stated on the relevant scholarship page, all graduate study scholarships are applied for through the Graduate Financial Support Application.
The information you provide through the Graduate Financial Support Application will be used to consider your eligibility for the Graduate Support Scheme .
If you complete the personal statement section of the Graduate Financial Support Application, you will also be considered for any other scholarships you may be eligible for.
You do not need to submit a separate application for each scholarship.
Your financial information will not be considered as part of your application for admission to study at LSE.
Please note the deadlines regarding offers of study and submission of the Graduate Financial Support Application in the section 'Deadlines' below.
Before completing your application, please read this guidance on completing the Graduate Financial Support Application.
The deadline for submission of Graduate Financial Support Application for students commencing study at LSE in the 2025/26 academic year is:
07 May 2025 (17:00 UK time) - extended from 24 April 2025
For your application to be considered you must have met both of the following conditions by the deadline:
- received a conditional or unconditional offer of study at LSE.
- sucessfully submitted a Graduate Financial Support Application.
It is recommend that your application for admission is submitted well in advance of the deadline.
After submitting your Graduate Financial Support application, please allow up to 24 hours to receive a decision on your eligibility for the Graduate Support Scheme.
The decision will be made available on the Graduate Application Portal.
The information you provide on your Graduate Financial Support Application will also be used to consider you for any other scholarships we have available for which you meet the eligibility criteria.
We will only contact successful applicants regarding the outcome of these awards.
Successful applicants will be notified throughout May, June and July 2025.
Please ensure 'lse.ac.uk' is added to your email account 'safe senders' list to avoid any email notification going to your junk inbox.
If you do not receive a response by the end of July, your scholarship application has not been successful.
Due to the number of applications received each year, we are not able to provide individual feedback about your application.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Graduate/fees-and-funding/ESRC-Studentships:
LSE has an Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP) and has ESRC studentships available for a number of programmes across 19 departments.
Students of all nationalities are eligible for ESRC funding.
ESRC Studentships provide fees, a stipend and other additional forms of support.
More information can be found here .
Funding for PhD study is also available in the form of LSE PhD Studentships .
ESRC Studentships are available for a number of programmes.
Individual programme entries detail which programmes are eligible for ESRC funding.
Students of all nationalities are eligible for ESRC funding, although there is a cap on the number of studentships that can be awarded to international, including EU, students.
Depending on the programme of study, ESRC Studentships will cover a one year's research training master's linked to a PhD, a two-year MRes linked to a PhD, or a PhD programme.
Find out more about these different award types .
ESRC Studentships cover full fees (for overseas students, LSE will cover the difference between UK and overseas fees) and an annual stipend, which for 2024/25 entry was £21,237.
There is additional DTP funding available for ESRC funded students to support difficult language training, field work, overseas institutional visits and collaborative research activities.
Training is delivered through a flexible portfolio of options.
Where a student lacks some of the core (conceptual, general research and subject / field knowledge) skills required to commence a PhD they may be allocated funding to enable them to undertake the additional training requirements as well as their PhD, for example 3.75 or 4 years.
The 1+3.5 or 2+2.5 scheme provides funding for a one- or two-year research training master's (MSc or MRes) linked to a PhD programme and is designed for students who have not already completed an ESRC recognised programme of research training.
If you would like to be considered for this, you should submit an application for the relevant MSc or MRes programme, including a research proposal for the PhD element of the programme (but check whether the programme you are applying for has specific instructions about this).
You must also indicate your wish to be considered for 1+3.5 or 2+2.5 funding in your personal statement.
There is no separate application for the studentship as such, but you must submit your application for the MSc or MRes programme by a specific deadline (see below).
There is no separate application for the studentship as such, but you must submit your application for the MPhil/PhD programme by a specific deadline( see below)
LSE ESRC Doctoral Training Partnership Collaborative Studentships are projects developed through partnerships between academic and non-academic organisations.
Working alongside non-academic collaborators, these projects tackle research topics of both theoretical and practical significance, offering the chosen student valuable hands-on experience in a non-academic setting.
Collaborative Studentships cover tuition fees and an annual maintenance stipend.
More information about the Collaborative Studentships available for September 2026 entry, will be available in October 2025.
"I was awarded funding from the UK's ESRC.
It was a requirement of my funding to do an MSc in research methods before going to do a PhD, and it's taught me very valuable skills that I can now bring to both academic and applied settings.
There is a good amount of funding available at LSE for students from all over the world."
Laura Sochas MSc Social Research Methods LSE ESRC DTP Studentship

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Graduate/fees-and-funding/london-arts-and-humanities-partnership-lahp:
LAHP is a Doctoral Training Partnership co-funded by the Arts & Humanities Research Council (AHRC) and eight Higher Education Institution (HEI) partners:
LAHP funds up to 90 PhD studentships each year at these HEIs in subjects across the Arts & Humanities.
10 per cent of these studentships are Collaborative Doctoral Awards (CDAs) with a cultural or other external partner.
There are separate competitions for CDA and open studentships.
The studentship includes an annual stipend at the Research Council UK Home (£22,780 for 2025/26 entry) plus fees for three years full-time study.
LAHP also welcomes applications for part-time study.
CDAs are funded for three and a half years and include an annual stipend top-up of £550.
Studentships are tenable for three years and they cover full fees (for international students, LSE will cover the difference between UK and overseas fees) and an annual stipend, which for 2024/25 entry is £22,780.
Registration for these sessions can be completed using the webform found here
LAHP welcomes applications:
Beyond the stipend and fees’ cover, LAHP supports funded students through its wide research training programme , which includes language courses, introductions to archives and collections workshops, equality, diversity and inclusion training, communication skills training (including public engagement and public speaking), writing retreats, academic and non-academic career development workshops and lectures and workshops on relevant topics.
LAHP funded students are also able to apply for additional funding to allow them to undertake fieldwork, present at conferences, and to take up specialist training beyond the LAHP research training programme.
LAHP also offers placement opportunities with major London cultural and other external partners to enable LAHP funded students to experience a working environment in a different sector from academia, discover new ways of working and new methodologies, and develop their employability skills.
For full details on the LAHP Open studentship competition , please visit https://www.lahp.ac.uk/prospective-students/how-to-apply-for-an-open-studentship Please send any queries related to the open competition to info.lahp@london.ac.uk
For full details on the LAHP Collaborative Doctoral Awards , please visit https://www.lahp.ac.uk/prospective-students/collaborative-doctoral-awards-projects-available/ .
Please send any queries related to the CDA competition to cda.lahp@london.ac.uk
London Arts and Humanities Partnership (LAHP) PhD Scholarships deadline: 31st January 2025, 17:00 GMT

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Graduate/fees-and-funding/lse-csc-scholarship:
Funding Details
The LSE-CSC Scholarship covers:
You will be considered automatically based on your application for admission.
For any questions relating to this LSE-CSC Scholarship, please email financial-support@lse.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/Graduate/fees-and-funding/programme-related-funding:
See the overview of how to apply
Department
Award
Value
More information
Multiple Departments
Enlighten PhD Scholarship Programme
Six scholarships of £50,000 per year for four years
For Chinese applicants to a PhD programme
Lee Family PhD Scholarships
1-2 PhD Scholarships covering tuition and providing an annual stipend for four years
For applicants from China or Hong Kong for PhD programmes
Centre for the Study of Human Rights
Sir Siegmund Warburg
One award of £30,000
For applicants studying on the MSc in Human Rights
Economics
Anning Valley Zhao Scholarship
One PhD Studentship covering tuition and providing an annual stipend for four years
For an applicant from China to study the MRes/ PhD in Economics or the Department of Finance.
One award of £15,000
For applicants who are a national of and currently domiciled in Canada with an offer of full time admission to the MSc Economics or another economics related Msc Programme list on the webpage.
Economic History
Alumni and Friends of Economic History at LSE
One PhD Scholarship covering tuition and providing a stipend for four years
Scholarship for the MPhil/ PhD programme in Economic History
European Institute
Five scholarships covering fees and a stipend
For applicants applying to any MSc programme in European Institute.
Finance
Antoine Faure-Grimaud MSc Scholarships
Multiple awards of up to £20,000 towards tuition fees
For applicants studying either MSc Finance (Full time) or MSc Finance and Private Equity
One award covering full fees
For applicants studying either MSc Finance and Economics (Full time) or MSc Finance and Economics (Research)
For female applicants studying either MSc Finance (Full time) or MSc Finance and Private Equity
Geography and Environment
Silvretta PhD Scholarship Programme
For applicants with a research focus on environmental economics or related disciplines
Government
Carsten Stoeher MSc in Government
One award of up to £22,000
For applicants studying Comparative Politics, Conflict Studies, Global Politics and Global Politics (Global Civil Society), Public Policy and Administration, Political Science and Political Economy, Political Theory or Regulation
International Development
Wellcome Award MSc Health and International Development
Full fees and a stipend
One Wellcome Award for any applicant to the the MSc in Health and International Development
Two awards of £15,000 each
For a Home UK applicant studying an MSc in Health and International  Development with a population specialism
International History
Dr Nasrollah Moghtader-Mojdehi PhD Scholarship
Applicants to the MPhil/PhD in International History with a focus on the modern history of Iran
Law
One scholarship of £10,000
For Indian applicants resident in India applying to the full-time LLM.
If there are no suitable candidates, those with UK and EU fee status will be considered
Management
Clau dio Ciborra Scholarship Fund
One award of up to £5,000
For any applicant to the MSc Management of Information Systems and Digital Innovation
Mathematics
Alumni and Friends of the Department of Mathematics
One PhD Scholarship covering fees (at the UK/Home Rate) and maintenance stipend in line with UKRI Stipend rate
For a Home UK applicant from an under-served community within the Department of Mathematics
Media and Communications
One award of £23,520
For an applicant to the MSc in Strategic Communications
Peterson Scholarship
One award covering tuition fees and £14,400 stipend
For an applicant to the MSc in Global Media and Communications (LSE and USC)
Philosophy
HS Chau Foundation Award
One PhD Studentship covering tuition and an annual stipend for four years
For a female applicant to the PhD programme in the Department of  Philosophy, Logic and Scientific Method
NIMN Scholarship
One PhD Studentship covering fees (at the UK/Home Rate) and maintenance stipend in line with UKRI Stipend rate
specifically for students proposing to conduct research within the scope of Dr Jonathan Parry’s UKRI-funded project ‘Not in My Name: The Ethics of Acting For Others’
School of Public Policy
Awards to support study on the MPP and MPA programmes
For applicants who are ordinarily resident in Asia
David Heleniak Scholarship
For applicants who are ordinarily resident in Africa
The Luksic Scholarship
For applicants who are ordinarily resident in Chile
Up to six scholarships for tuition fees and living costs
For applicants who are ordinarily resident in Peru
Sociology
One award of £8,000
For UK applicants to MSc programme in Sociology
One award of £25,920
For Commonwealth applicants to MSc programme in Sociology
Up to 9 awards covering tuition fees and a £23,000 stipend
For applicants to the Atlantic Fellows for Social and Economic Equity (Atlantic Fellows Residential Programme with MSc in Inequalities and Social Science)
Social Psychology
Hilde Himmelweit Scholarship
Up to three awards of £2,000
For applicants to study Social and Cultural Psychology, full time
Statistics
LSE PhD Statistics Scholarship
One PhD scholarship covering tuition and an annual stipend for four years
Applicants to the MPhil/PhD in Statistics
Statistics UK BAME Studentship

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/Research/global-politics:
In 2024 people around the world went to the polls.
At LSE we explored the debates at the forefront of politics and the implications of key elections through short films, blogs, articles and events.
From Mexico to Europe, our short film series explores a year of unpredictable elections

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/Research/UK-economy:
Explore our dedicated hub showcasing LSE research and commentary on the state of the UK economy and its future
Tue 12 Nov

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/Research/researcher-profiles:
Read about the research taking place in different departments across the School, how the PhD candidates feel being a part of LSE, and their advice for prospective students.
Jose is a Postdoctoral Research Officer at the Centre for Analysis of Risk & Regulation and studies how organisations tackle complex policy problems.
Read the Q&A with Jose A Bolanos
A British Academy Postdoctoral Fellow investigating inequalities faced by young children of special educational needs and disabilities (SENDs).
Read the Q&A with Tammy Campbell
A Leverhulme Early Career Fellow researching the dynamics of human cooperation, conflict and competition from a cognitive anthropological perspective.
Read the Q&A with Anni Kajanus
A PhD candidate investigating the changing human-dog ethics around Tibetan Mastiff breeding in China.
Yufei won the PhD Academy prize in this year’s research competition.
Read the Q&A with Yufei Zhou
A PhD candidate investigating social change on the Isle of Dogs.
Read the Q&A with Jordan Vieira
A PhD researcher candidate investigating the lives of Indonesian nuns.
Read the Q&A with Meghan Rose Donnelly
A PhD student investigating mental distress from the perspective of the household.
Read the Q&A with Nikita Simpson
An LSE Fellow epxloring experiences that psychiatry often labels as psychosis and schizophrenia.
Read the Q&A with Anjana Bala
A PhD student researching occupational choice and labour market outcomes.
Read the Q&A with Maria Ventura
A PhD student researching climate change, energy and developing countries.
Read the Q&A with Tim Dobermann
A PhD student researching the impact of climate change and environmental externalities in developing countries.
Read the Q&A with Azhar Hussain
A PhD candidate with the Department of Economic History, and winner of the 2019 LSE Festival poster prize for her work on the impact of Indian textiles on the early British cotton industry.
Read the Q&A with Alka Raman
A PhD candidate with the Department of Economic History researching historical wealth inequality in Europe
Read the Q&A with Felix S.F.
Schaff
A researcher in the Department of Economic History exploring the relationship between institutions and inequality.
Read the Q&A with Dr Stefania Galli
A PhD student in the Department of Economic History researching the so-called "Golden Age" of economic growth in France.
Read the Q&A with Guillaume Yon
A Teaching Fellow with the Department of Gender Studies.
Read the Q&A with Emma Spruce
A PhD candidate researching contemporary debates surrounding the concept of "transracialism".
Read the Q&A with Alanah Mortlock
A Postdoctoral researcher on rights-claiming and rights-making in the Kurdish led Administration of North and East Syria (AANES).
Read the Q&A with Hasret Cetinkaya
A Fellow examining coloniality, occupation and anticolonial feminist possibilities.
Read the Q&A with Niharika Pandit
A Fellow exploring the histories of squatting in Brixton.
Read the Q&A with Milo Miller
A PhD candidate researching urban economics and policy.
Read the Q&A with Cong Peng
A PhD candidate studying the historical relationship between universities and the urbanisation process in East Asia, from colonial times to the current era.
Read the Q&A with Do Young Oh
A PhD candidate investigating regional competitiveness, productivity and development in Mexico.
Read the Q&A with Eduardo Ibarra-Olilvio
A PhD candidate investigating property rights in Tanzania.
Read the Q&A with Martina Manara
A PhD candidate investigating food systems and the humanitarian aid work undertaken by celebrity chefs in the aftermath of hurricane Katrina.
Read the Q&A With Jeanne Firth
A PhD candidate investigating the impact of mineral mine openings on local economic development and urbanisation in Africa.
Read the Q&A With Sandro Provenzano
A research student investigating international trade and competitiveness in clean and dirty technology.
Read the Q&A with Pia Andres
A PhD candidate investigating how people across the Global South respond to environmental changes.
Read the Q&A with Mook Bangalore
A PhD researcher investigating the increased risk of mosquito-borne diseases as temperatures rise.
Read the Q&A with Ana De Menezes
A PhD candidate researching transboundary climate risks.
Read the Q&A with Martin Munene
Doctoral researcher focusing on the politics and development of the African state.
Read the Q&A with McDonald Lewanika
PhD researcher looking into the repurcussions of policy change.
Read the Q&A with Fergus Green
(Postdoctoral) LSE Fellow and Associate Researcher of the Electoral Psychology Observatory studying the nature of group identities and the impact this has on public opinion towards political change.
Read the Q&A with Sandra Obradovic
PhD researcher looking into citizen militias in the US.
Read the Q&A with Ariel Perkins
PhD researcher investigating populism in political texts.
Read the Q&A with Julia Leschke
PhD researcher exploring the themes of injustice, activism, and resistance.
Read the Q&A with Temi Ogunye
PhD researcher exploring collective violence in contemporary Latin America.
Read the Q&A with Diego Sazo
PhD student exploring the history of statehood in East Africa.
Read the Q&A with Stephanie Wanga
PhD student researching the effects of social media on political discussion.
Read the Q&A with Nick Lewis
A PhD candidate studying the impact of social policy on health outcomes across generations.
Read the Q&A with Genevieve Jeffrey
A PhD candidate exploring how household context shapes the lives of young informal carers.
Read the Q&A with Camille Bou
A PhD candidate researching trauma and mental healthcare.
Read the Q&A with Shoshana Lauter
PhD student researching informal economies in the Middle East and North Africa.
Read the Q&A with Max Gallien
PhD student researching the gendered dimensions of toxic contamination in coca farming and gold mining in Colombia.
Read the Q&A with Chiara Chiavaroli
PhD student researching the localisation of humanitarian aid in complex emergencies.
Read the Q&A with Gijs Marijn van Selm
PhD student researching Latin American History.
Read the Q&A with Molly Avery
PhD student researching the ways governments respond to armed groups.
Read the Q&A with Jemima Ackah-Arthur
PhD student researching global solidarity and colonial patterns.
Read the Q&A with Ida Danewid
Investigating the politics and political economy of the Kurdish national movement.
Read the Q&A with Nicola Degli Esposti
PhD student researching Chinese leadership’s involvement in global climate governance structures.
Read the Q&A with Carlotta Clivio
PhD student investigating Iranian representations and conceptions of Europe.
Read the Q&A with Alireza Shams Lahijani
PhD student investigating why states renege on commitments within institutionalised alliances
Read the Q&A with Jacklyn Majnemer
PhD candidate researching the legal cases involving environmental valuation.
Read the Q&A with Sroyon Mukherjee
PhD candidate researching Information Technology in developing countries.
Read the Q&A with Atta Addo
LSE Fellow researching the effectiveness of flexible working practices and work-life balance.
Read the Q&A with Esther Canonico
PhD student researching digital innovation processes for humanitarian action.
Read the Q&A with Anulekha Nandi
PhD candidate studying discrete geometry.
Read the Q&A with Nόra Frankl
PhD candidate studying financial networks.
Read the Q&A with Raymond Pang
Research officer studying combinatorial optimisation
Read the Q&A with Franziska Eberle
PhD candidate studying the Theory of optimisation
Read the Q&A with Bento Natura
PhD candidate investigating data tracking.
Read the Q&A with Svetlana Smirnova
PhD candidate investigating professional YouTube content creators
Read the Q&A with Zoë Glatt
PhD candidate investigating how digital literacy and civic, political engagement shape one another.
Read the Q&A with Gianfranco Polizzi
PhD researcher investigating the relationship between asylum seekers and the mainstream.
Read the Q&A with Rob Sharp
PhD candidate investigating why young people engage with nostalgic narratives of the past
Read the Q&A with Rodrigo Munoz-Gonzalez
PhD candidate investigating the nexus between security and technology
Read the Q&A with Louise Marie Hurel S.
Dias
PhD candidate researching news production in Jamaica
Read the Q&A with Vashan Brown
PhD candidate researching how black creole women in Mauritius constitute a sense-of-self
Read the Q&A with Joe-Ann Chavry
PhD candidate researching racialised and feminised self-help books written by and for black women in Britain.
Read the Q&A with Diana Desola Olaleye
A PhD candidate researching how policymakers can make decisions in the face of highly uncertain science.
Read the Q&A with Joe
PhD student researching the philosophy of language.
Read the Q&A with Chloé
Celestin Okoroji
PhD candidate researching ideas about unemployed benefit claimants and effects on their self-esteem and wellbeing.
Read the Q&A with Celestin Okoroji
Laura Kudrna
Research officer investigating the relationship between money and happiness.
Read the Q&A with Laura Kudrna
Maxi Heitmayer
PhD candidate investigating smartphone use and smartphone addiction.
Read the Q&A with Maxi Heitmayer
Benno Guenther
PhD candidate investigating risk taking in high-stake contexts.
Read the Q&A with Benno Guenther
Daniele Pollicino
PhD candidate investigating sustainable food consumption.
Read the Q&A with Daniele Pollicino
Alexandra Kirienko
PhD candidate researching employee wellbeing and hybrid working
Read the Q&A with Alexandra Kirienko
Atrina Oraee
PhD candidate researching decision-making and climate change
Read the Q&A with Atrina Oraee
Anandita Sabherwal
PhD candidate researching collective action on climate change
Read the Q&A with Anandita Sabherwal
PhD candidate researching participation in political protest
Read the Q&A with Nils Mallock
PhD student researching how we can apply behavioural insights to facilitate more sustainable diets.
Read the Q&A with Heidi Zamzow
PhD candidate studying the reciprocal relationship between human wellbeing and the natural environment.
Read the Q&A with Kate Laffan
PhD candidate researching children’s experience of being detained in police custody after arrest.
Read the Q&A with Miranda Bevan
PhD Candidate and ambassador for CIVICA investigating the links between education and meritocracy.
Read the Q&A with Fiona Gogescu
PhD candidate researching how the Palestinian community in Jerusalem experienced transformation following the Israeli occupation.
Read the Q&A with Haneen Naamneh
Researching contemporary forms of music production in Berlin.
Read the Q&A with Kristina Kolbe
Researching consumer culture and social class
Read the Q&A with Gaby Harris
Researching hydrogen and the transition to net zero.
Read the Q&A with Johannes Hollenhorst
Researching young women music creatives and violence in East London.
Read the Q&A with Baljit Kaur
PhD candidate studying the effects of childhood socioeconomic circumstances on adults’ mental and physical health.
Read the Q&A with Yajing Zhu
PhD candidate with the European Institute studying identity in the far-right.
Read the Q&A with Marta Lorimer
PhD candidate with the European Institute studying approaches to automation in different political environments.
Read the Q&A with Toon Van Overbeke
PhD candidate with the European Institute studying the role and drivers of intellectual support for far right populism in Germany.
Read the Q&A with Julian
PhD candidate with the European Institute explaining the rise of the radical right in Europe.
Read the Q&A with Diane
PhD candidate with the European Institute researching the role of the French and Spanish Socialist parties in building the Single Market and Economic and Monetary Union in the 1980s and early 1990s.
Read the Q&A with Virginia
PhD candidate with the European Institute exploring how people speak about race in a supposedly post-race society.
Read the Q&A with Sarah
Teaching Fellow in the Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and the Environment.
Read the Q&A with Greer Gosnell
Policy officer in the Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and the Environment.
Read the Q&A with Michal Nachmany
Research officer in the Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and the Environment.
Read the Q&A with Anomitro Chatterjee
Read the Q&A with Gregor Singer
PhD student in the Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and the Environment.
Read the Q&A with Sara Mehryar
Research Fellow investigating the interface between mathematics and earth science.
Read the Q&A with Francisco de Melo Virissimo
British Academy Postdoctoral Fellow at LSE's Latin America and Caribbean Centre
Read the Q&A with Megan Ryburn
Research Officer at LSE's Religion and Global Society Research Unit
Read the Q&A with Dr Manmit Bhambra

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/Research/LSE-funded-projects/LSE-funded-projects:
LSE funds a wide range of projects from world-class research to ambitious impact across the social sciences, supporting the ambitions of our Research for the World strategy.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/news/latest-news-from-lse/ai-tools-risk-downplaying-womens-health-needs-in-social-care:
Large language models (LLMs), used by over half of England’s local authorities to support social workers, may be introducing gender bias into care decisions, according to new research from LSE's Care Policy & Evaluation Centre (CPEC) funded by the National Institute for Health and Care Research.
Published in the journal BMC Medical Informatics and Decision Making , the research found that Google’s widely used AI model ‘Gemma’ downplays women’s physical and mental issues in comparison to men’s when used to generate and summarise case notes.
Terms associated with significant health concerns, such as “disabled,” “unable,” and “complex,” appeared significantly more often in descriptions of men than women.
Similar care needs among women were more likely to be omitted or described in less serious terms.
Large language models are increasingly being used to ease the administrative workload of social workers and the public sector more generally.
However, it remains unclear which specific models are being deployed by councils—and whether they may be introducing bias.
Dr Sam Rickman , lead author of the report and a researcher in CPEC, said: “If social workers are relying on biased AI-generated summaries that systematically downplay women’s health needs, they may assess otherwise identical cases differently based on gender rather than actual need.
Since access to social care is determined by perceived need, this could result in unequal care provision for women.”
To investigate potential gender bias, Dr Rickman used large language models to generate 29,616 pairs of summaries based on real case notes from 617 adult social care users.
Each pair described the same individual, with only the gender swapped, allowing for a direct comparison of how male and female cases were treated by the AI.
The analysis revealed statistically significant gender differences in how physical and mental health issues were described.
Among the models tested, Google’s AI model, Gemma, exhibited more pronounced gender-based disparities than benchmark models developed by either Google or Meta in 2019.
Meta’s Llama 3 model – which is of the same generation as Google’s Gemma - did not use different language based on gender.
Dr Rickman said: “Large language models are already being used in the public sector, but their use must not come at the expense of fairness.
While my research highlights issues with one model, more are being deployed all the time making it essential that all AI systems are transparent, rigorously tested for bias and subject to robust legal oversight.”
The study is the first to quantitatively measure gender bias in LLM-generated case notes from real-world care records, using both state-of-the-art and benchmark models.
It offers a detailed, evidence-based evaluation of the risks of AI in practice, specifically in the context of adult social care.
The research paper Evaluating Gender Bias in Large Language Models in Long-term Care is authored by Sam Rickman from the Care Policy and Evaluation Centre (CPEC) at LSE has been accepted for publication by BMC Medical Informatics and Decision Making in July 2025.
It will be published in the Natural language processing in medical informatics special collection.
DISCLAIMER
This research is based on independent research partly funded through the NIHR Policy Research Unit in Adult Social Care, reference NIHR206126.
The views expressed are those of the author and not necessarily those of the NIHR or the Department of Health and Social Care.
The mission of the National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR) is to improve the health and wealth of the nation through research.
We do this by:
NIHR is funded by the Department of Health and Social Care.
Its work in low and middle income countries is principally funded through UK international development funding from the UK government.
If social workers are relying on biased AI-generated summaries that systematically downplay women’s health needs, they may assess otherwise identical cases differently based on gender rather than actual need.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/research/research-for-the-world/ai-and-tech/future-of-ai:
We’ve seen the headlines: “ AI will boil the oceans ” ( Forbes ), “ AI could reshape everything we know about climate change ” ( Time ), or the more ambivalent “ Will AI ruin the planet or save the planet?
” ( The New York Times ).
As the capabilities of artificial intelligence explode, so too do the predictions – bold, sweeping, often contradictory.
Depending on whom you ask, AI is either the saviour of the planet or the next existential threat to it.
These headlines, while attention-grabbing, risk missing the point.
The important question isn’t what AI will do to the climate.
It’s what we choose to make AI do.
Is AI destroying the planet?
Hear Eugenie Dugoua in the LSE iQ podcast.
Artificial intelligence opens up a wide range of futures.
Yes, it consumes energy, and yes, it raises legitimate concerns.
But it also has the potential to dramatically accelerate the clean energy transition – if we build and deploy it with that in mind.
Its trajectory isn’t predetermined.
It depends on the infrastructure we build, the incentives we set, and the applications we choose to prioritise.
So rather than treat AI as an uncontrollable force, maybe we should see it for what it is: a tool.
And the climate challenge is a test of whether we’re smart enough to use it well.
AI runs on electricity – sometimes a lot of it.
Training a large model can use as much electricity as a small town.
Inference – the stage when models like ChatGPT respond to users – happens billions of times a day and adds up quickly.
The International Energy Agency (IEA) estimates that global electricity demand from data centres , cryptocurrencies and AI could grow from 416 terawatt hours (TWh) in 2024 to between 700 and over 1,700 TWh by 2035, depending on how things unfold.
That’s a wide range – roughly the difference between the annual electricity use of Brazil and all of Latin America and the Caribbean .
Still, even the upper end would be about 4 per cent of global electricity demand in 2035, less than what the world already uses for air conditioning ( 2,111 TWh in 2022 , see page 299 Annex A Table A.3 of the World Energy Outlook 2024 report ).
How much energy AI uses, however, is not the main story.
The more important questions are where that energy comes from and what AI is being used for.
AI is not inherently clean or dirty – it can be powered by decarbonised sources of electricity.
Some countries are already well-positioned, with abundant and cheap zero-carbon electricity from hydro, geothermal or solar.
In the US, Microsoft is planning to take over the former Three Mile Island nuclear site to power a new data centre using nuclear energy .
Solar and wind, combined with energy storage, are another viable path.
And while the headlines can suggest that AI’s energy and carbon footprint is spiralling out of control, the reality so far is more measured.
As Hannah Ritchie notes in her analysis , the carbon footprint of a single ChatGPT query is still relatively small and far less than many everyday physical activities.
The critical point is that the energy intensity of AI only becomes a climate problem if that energy comes from high-emitting sources.
Fortunately, clean alternatives are available and scaling fast.
It’s tempting to treat data centres – and by extension, AI – as just another electricity load, manageable through general climate policy tools like carbon pricing.
In a world with well-functioning electricity markets and fully internalised carbon costs, we might not need AI-specific rules.
But we don’t live in that world.
Many grids still fail to price emissions properly.
And despite corporate sustainability pledges, data centre emissions are rising.
Governments are beginning to act: some have (temporarily) paused new data centres in grid-constrained areas (in Amsterdam and Dublin , for example), while others are mandating efficiency standards or incentivising clean power deals.
The EU now requires data centres to report on energy use .
China has introduced standards targeting 100 per cent clean electricity by 2032 .
In the US, the state of California is experimenting with disclosure mandates .
These early efforts reflect a simple fact: AI infrastructure is now too large, too visible, and too power-hungry to ignore.
While current policies are scattered, they suggest targeted regulation is feasible.
A more coherent framework would begin with mandatory disclosure of electricity use and emissions intensity.
Transparency is essential.
Over time, policymakers could impose performance standards – just as they’ve done for buildings and vehicles.
Importantly, incentives should reward actual decarbonisation, not just certificates or offsets.
The other important question is what AI is being used for, because AI can help cut emissions if we put it to work in the right places.
It is already helping grid operators forecast demand and supply more accurately, adjust loads in real time, and integrate more renewables.
The IEA estimates that smarter forecasting and optimisation could unlock up to 175 gigawatts of transmission capacity globally by 2030 [ IEA Energy and AI report p16] – without building a single new power line.
That’s a significant boost in system efficiency, achieved entirely through better software.
AI is also speeding up the discovery of new clean energy technologies.
From solar cells to batteries to carbon capture materials, researchers are now using machine learning to screen thousands of candidates and run simulations that would take months in a lab.
The IEA notes that only about 0.01 per cent of promising solar PV materials have been tested [ IEA Energy and AI report p.17] .
AI could change that.
Of course, just because AI can help doesn’t mean it will.
In many cases, it could just as easily raise emissions.
AI is already being used to boost oil and gas extraction by optimising exploration and drilling.
Autonomous vehicles, if deployed at scale, could encourage people to abandon public transport rather than reduce overall travel.
AI-generated content, synthetic influencers, and algorithmically- optimised ad delivery are not exactly decarbonisation priorities, but they still require substantial computing resources.
We also haven't yet imagined all the potential uses of AI.
Like electricity before it, AI is a general purpose technology – capable of transforming entire sectors, often in unexpected ways.
When electricity was first introduced, few imagined it would one day power electric toothbrushes, toys for entertaining pets, or glowing party ice cubes – let alone future inventions such as computers and smartphones.
We should expect the same with AI: a wave of new applications, some useful, some wasteful, and some harmful.
That’s why it's not enough to focus on how much energy AI will use.
What matters just as much is what kind of activities it enables – and whether those activities genuinely enhance welfare.
Steering this technology toward solving real problems, rather than amplifying old ones, may be one of the most important climate and social choices we face.
AI’s climate and social impacts will be shaped by policy, regulation, and the incentives we build around it.
We don’t know exactly what a future with AI will look like, but we do know it’s being built now, through the choices engineers, companies, and policymakers make every day.
So far, most policies focus on how much energy AI uses.
But what it’s used for matters just as much.
Steering AI toward cleaner, more productive uses – like energy optimisation or clean tech R&D – raises tough questions: how can strategic sectors attract AI talent?
How can knowledge diffuse across boundaries?
These questions are harder to answer, but no less urgent.
The AI policy debate is just beginning, and economists have a central role to play – not just in pricing externalities, but in shaping the direction of innovation itself.
Assistant Professor in Environmental Economics, Department of Geography and Environment, LSE
Dr Eugenie Dugoua is Assistant Professor in Environmental Economics in the Department of Geography and Environment at LSE.
Her research analyses the issue of technological change and her interests lie primarily in understanding how institutions and policies influence science, innovation, and technological change so that economic development can be sustainable for the environment and societies.
27 May 2025 • 5 min read
21 May 2025 • 5 min read

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/research/research-for-the-world/ai-and-tech/tech-political-power-storytelling:
While campaigning to be selected as the Democratic Party’s presidential candidate for the 2020 US election, Senator Elizabeth Warren revealed, in a moving post on social media, how she was fired in 1971 from her first teaching job for being pregnant.
It was a textbook campaign approach, especially in a highly personalised campaign environment like the US.
However, Warren then took the unusual step of inviting her followers to share their own experiences of injustices, saying that “we can fight back by telling our stories.” Nearly 1,500 people responded, many in intimate and emotional detail, in comments to her post.
According to the new book, Story Tech : .
power, storytelling, and social change advocacy , co-authored by Dr Michael Vaughan, International Inequalities Institute at LSE, Dr Filippo Trevisan and Professor Ariadne Vromen, this signalled the beginning of a new approach to storytelling in digital politics.
The book explains: “In recent years, many political organisations have started to ask ordinary people to share their stories with them as a form of participation and support, beyond typical requests to donate money or sign digital petitions … large numbers of people seem eager to respond to these invitations to share their experiences.
Crowdsourced personal stories have thus joined the repertoire of digital grassroots advocacy.”
But why are personal stories so powerful compared with well-crafted political rhetoric?
Dr Vaughan says: “Storytelling is innate to us as human beings – stories help us construct our social world and imbue it with meaning.
For political organisations, stories have particular power compared with facts and statistics.
They invite audiences to identify with some characters and not others, and can convey complex causal relationships.
All that helps create a simplified version of reality with moral and emotional stakes for the audience.
“When the stories are ‘real’, they carry the power and authenticity of personal testimony.
Even though storytelling in politics has a long history, arguably it is increasingly relevant in an information environment where attention is scarce and scepticism about facts is high.”
The book explains that “the act of telling persuasive stories has roots back in preliterate oral traditions, and its basic relationship with human psychology has fundamentally remained the same for thousands of years.”
Storytelling has long been used by workers’ unions and social movements to galvanise support for change: for example, in the US civil rights movement in the 1950s and 1960s.
Since the mid-2000s, politicians have also shared more of their personal stories as a way to enhance their appeal and authenticity.
But in recent years, organisations have moved from professionally produced content to large crowdsourcing operations that collect personal narratives directly from supporters and integrate them in their campaigns.
Dr Sarah Kerr and Dr Michael Vaughan discuss the role that the media can play in shaping understandings of and opinions about the economy and wealth inequality.
Political organisations have started to ask ordinary people to share their stories with them as a form of participation and support.
The book explores the increasingly influential impact of technology: a hidden world of what it calls “story tech” and “story banks” in collecting and using these stories.
Databases, story submission portals, algorithms and AI tools are used to acquire, organise, select and disseminate stories at scale in what the book calls the “datafication of storytelling”.
Dr Vaughan explains: “One of the drivers of this book was the growth of so-called ‘story banks’ in advocacy organisations.
Lots of us will have seen political organisations ask supporters to ‘share their story’, such as by filling out a form on their website.
The back end of that crowdsourcing process might be a story bank – sometimes vast databases of personal stories, which organisations archive and catalogue in anticipation of some kind of future use.
There are some risks to this approach, highlight Dr Vaughan and his co-authors.
He says: “The process by which stories get selected for use from these archives is mostly opaque and often defaults to imagining audience preferences.
This can result in a kind of storytelling which presents itself as authentic and grassroots, yet involves lots of curation and constraints on what kinds of stories get told.
“Story tech often works to make itself as invisible as possible, but we want to show that it is actually a complex layer of systems and agents with real impacts on what stories ultimately get shared.”
This means that the voices of marginalised groups are potentially in danger of being excluded rather than amplified, says Dr Vaughan.
The voices of marginalised groups are potentially in danger of being excluded rather than amplified.
“Story banking, however, also has some clear strengths," continues Dr Vaughan.
"It enables a potentially meaningful form of participation by large numbers of people.
It can equip advocacy groups with lots of content, which can potentially be tailored to specific communication needs, such as targeting a particular area or demographic with a story likely to resonate with that audience, or rapidly responding to media.”
The book focuses on identifiable strengths of story banking: successful story-centred campaigns that helped change dominant narratives on disability rights, marriage equality, and essential workers’ rights in the US and Australia.
Dr Vaughan says: “As part of the research for the book, I looked at Australian campaigns for marriage equality and a National Disability Insurance Scheme, both of which were successes in the sense that they secured lasting policy change.
“Storytelling played a big part in both campaigns – not just large-scale collection of stories as a way to mobilise supporters, but using those personal narratives to persuade a wider public by invoking broadly shared cultural scripts around fairness.
“It was this personal storytelling – at scale – which helped galvanise public attention, showed the way policy changes matter to people’s lives, and drew links between individual actions and systemic change.”
Returning to personal storytelling increasingly favoured by high-profile politicians, how about UK Prime Minister Keir Starmer, who repeatedly emphasised that he was the son of a tool maker in his successful election campaign last year?
Dr Vaughan says: “I would say Starmer used a character type to allude to a familiar story.
The character is the upwardly mobile working-class kid, and the story is one of upward social mobility and meritocracy – which holds incredible power in broader notions of fairness.
The character type functions to distance Starmer from ideas about politicians as detached establishment elites, as well as showing his meritocratic bona fides.
Aaron Reeves and Sam Friedman here at LSE have written about the advantage for politicians emphasising working- class roots in their latest book, Born to Rule: the making and remaking of the British elite .”
Dr Michael Vaughan was speaking to Joanna Bale, Senior Media Relations Manager at LSE.
Story Tech: power, storytelling, and social change advocacy is by Filippo Trevisan, Michael Vaughan, and Ariadne Vromen.
Research Fellow, International Inequalities Institute, LSE
Dr Michael Vaughan is a Research Fellow in the International Inequalities Institute at LSE.
His research expertise includes the communicative dimension of mobilisation around economic inequality, the far right, and digital political participation and communication.
16 Oct 2024 • 5 min read
14 May 2024 • 4 min read
27 Feb 2025 • 5 min read

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/research/research-for-the-world/ai-and-tech/using-ai-to-improve-event-safety:
Managing large crowds at high-profile events has always presented major challenges for law enforcement and security stakeholders.
From sudden surges in crowd density to unpredictable protest movements, ensuring public safety without compromising the event experience requires strategic coordination, foresight, and adaptability.
As urban environments grow more complex and major events attract increasingly dynamic and diverse audiences, traditional methods of crowd control are no longer sufficient.
This is where artificial intelligence (AI) is stepping in to reshape public safety.
AI technologies are now enabling real-time insights, predictive analytics and faster, more informed decision-making.
To explore these capabilities in a live setting, Greater Manchester Police (GMP) partnered with the Policing and Crime research group at the Centre for Economic Performance at LSE to run a real-world trial.
The venue: the Manchester United versus Arsenal football match at Old Trafford on 9 March 2025.
The goal: to test how AI-powered monitoring ( N-AI ’s platform) could support crowd management, improve situational awareness, and optimise resource deployment in one of the UK's busiest stadiums, while also demonstrating how cutting-edge research can be translated into real-world impact.
The initiative aligns with the broader mission of " AI for Good ", which aims to ensure that innovation is directed toward enhancing public welfare.
Could this tech save lives?
AI can be used not to replace, but to empower public safety professionals.
For this deployment, live drone footage of the stadium and surrounding areas was securely streamed via encrypted VPN to LSE servers, where the data was processed in real time by N-AI's platform, returning analytics to GMP’s Gold Command ( which had overall command of the operation) with only millisecond delays.
This setup allowed GMP to access real-time crowd density analytics through a non-invasive, privacy-compliant system that uses a "dots on a map" visualisation method.
The technology was put to the test when a pre-match protest unfolded near the stadium, demanding rapid decision-making and dynamic police deployment.
We found that N-AI's platform was successful in capturing and analysing over 2.5 hours of high-definition aerial footage during the protest and as crowds entered the stadium.
By providing an aerial perspective with real-time crowd density data, the system enabled GMP to more easily identify crowd surges, potential bottlenecks and artificial obstructions, including parked vehicles and police vans, allowing for more informed decision-making.
In addition, the drone-based perspective meant the command team could monitor both static crowd concentrations and moving formations, helping to prevent safety issues before they escalated.
The system operated consistently throughout the whole event.
Importantly, it integrated seamlessly with GMP's command structure, providing relevant intelligence to those overseeing safety management of the event.
Ultimately, the technology enabled GMP to make faster, data-driven decisions, particularly during the protest when merging crowds posed complex logistical challenges.
Through this project, and as a result of us being able to “test” the system in real time, GMP has been able to gain a more robust understanding of N-AI's capabilities, which proved technically reliable and demonstrated operational value in a live, high-pressure environment.
As Assistant Chief Constable Chris Sykes said: "This partnership with LSE is about us finding the best way to properly understanding crowd sizes, crowd dynamics and how crowds are moving.
This is a really important tool for us in understanding public order and public safety, particularly at large events, football matches, music concerts and protests."
In the past, crowd estimates were only made using specialist officers.
ACC Sykes reports that these estimates “were reasonable, but nowhere near as accurate as what we've seen so far from the technology.
Particularly when attached to the drone, we’re getting overhead footage, and the technology is telling us how many people are in the crowd.
Soon, it’ll also be able to tell us the density and whether we’ve got any crushing or crowd density issues.”
[This] collaboration ...
exemplifies the future of law enforcement: where human expertise and intelligent systems work together to create safer, more responsive public spaces.
The success of the Manchester trial has set the stage for broader AI integration into public safety strategies.
N-AI's platform proved technically reliable and demonstrated operational value in a live, high-pressure environment.
Future deployments could include expanded integration with venue infrastructure, such as CCTV and access control systems, and extending access to real-time data to officers on the ground through handheld devices.
Building on established research by the LSE team, ongoing developments in predictive analytics will soon allow the system to anticipate crowd behaviour based on historical patterns and real-time inputs.
However, there are still challenges to address.
Drone operator training is also essential to ensure optimal video quality for AI analysis.
As ACC Sykes noted: “Football events run several times a week all over the country, and here in Greater Manchester we have two of the largest clubs in the world.
Tens of thousands of people come to enjoy football, and they need to enjoy it safely.
“Understanding crowd dynamics and how many people are in the crowds is so important to us.
Sometimes we also face disorder, so understanding how to move people around a venue is key.
This technology is helping us understand the number of officers we need and how to manage movement more effectively.”
He added: “Policing can’t stand still.
Sometimes it feels like the private sector races ahead and the public sector lags behind.
We need to get on the front foot.
I’m really excited about the technologies that are coming.
AI is really going to significantly help policing in my opinion, and the technology we’re using with LSE is already proving that.”
The deployment of AI-powered analytics (N-AI) at Old Trafford marked a turning point in the use of AI for crowd management.
With 100 per cent system reliability, seamless integration into command structures and meaningful, real-time intelligence, the technology demonstrated how advanced analytics can support more proactive, precise and efficient policing.
By enabling data-driven resource allocation, early detection of crowd risks, and evidence-based decision-making, AI is fast becoming an essential tool for public safety.
The collaboration between GMP and LSE exemplifies the future of law enforcement: where human expertise and intelligent systems work together to create safer, more responsive public spaces.
As public events continue to grow in scale and complexity, innovations like N-AI’s platform will be key to keeping crowds safe, and security stakeholders informed and proactive.
For more on the crowd management solutions offered by N-AI visit www.n-ai.com .
Director of the Policing and Crime research group, Centre for Economic Performance, LSE
Professor Tom Kirchmaier is Director of the Policing and Crime research group at the Centre for Economic Performance at LSE.
He focuses on understanding the full spectrum of questions relating to policing and crime, with a special focus currently on domestic abuse, demand prediction, police organisational efficiency, AML and organised crime.
10 Oct 2023 • 4 min read
31 Aug 2023 • 5 min read

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/Research/research-impact-case-studies/2021/reforming-the-law-on-storage-time-limits-for-frozen-eggs:
It was Professor Jackson who clarified that the law was discriminatory … [She] has masterminded the plan of action to change the law, and she is undoubtedly the leading reproductive medicine lawyer of this generation.
She has demonstrated a combination of scholarship and practical action, putting that scholarship to use in order to benefit the thousands affected by the law.
Baroness Ruth Deech
Former Chair of the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority
Research by
LSE research identified how current UK law on egg freezing breaches human rights, and can increase the emotional and financial costs for women seeking treatment.
The UK’s Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 1990, as amended, set a 10-year limit for the storage of embryos and gametes that had been collected for use in fertility treatments.
Regulations passed in 2009 allow for extended storage, up to a maximum of 55 years, for patients who are, or are likely to become, “prematurely infertile”.
This option for extension works well for men who freeze their sperm because they are about to undergo treatment, such as chemotherapy, which may leave them infertile.
Since this legislation was introduced, a new egg-freezing technique (known as vitrification) has become available which enables women who are concerned about their age-related fertility decline to freeze their eggs.
This is not “premature” infertility, and so most women who freeze their eggs are ineligible for an extension and can store their eggs for 10 years only.
If a woman freezes her eggs at the age of 25, she would face their mandatory destruction when she is 35, before she is likely to want to use them.
Professor Emily Jackson has been carrying out research into the ethical, legal, and social implications of assisted conception techniques since the late 1990s.
A key theme of her first monograph, Regulating Reproduction: Law, Technology and Autonomy , and subsequent publications, is the need to take seriously reproductive autonomy and to recognise that both infertility and its treatment are stressful and difficult, and that prospective patients need help and support in order to make sense of their options.
Jackson’s recent research has focused on the commercialisation of assisted conception services.
Most fertility treatment in the UK is provided by the private sector, and it is recognised that clinics can oversell and overtreat, for example by offering services for which the evidence base is poor or non-existent.
In her 2016 Journal of Medical Ethics article , Jackson raised the unfairness of the statutory storage time limits for women who freeze their eggs.
These rules were not drafted with the interests of egg freezers in mind and, Jackson argues, they are – unintentionally – contrary to their interests and to good clinical practice.
The 10-year storage rule creates an incentive for women to wait to freeze their eggs until their late 30s, after their fertility is already in decline, so that they have until their late 40s to use them.
At this point, women are likely to need to undergo more cycles of egg retrieval to have a sufficient number of eggs to freeze.
Furthermore, if a 25-year-old egg freezer has her frozen eggs destroyed when she is 35, should she subsequently struggle to conceive, she might find herself having to use donor eggs, which would have been unnecessary if her own eggs had been stored for longer.
The forced destruction of a person’s gametes under the 10-year rule undoubtedly represents an interference with her right to a private and family life.
The solution, Jackson argues, is not to get rid of the storage time limit altogether, but to allow for an option for extension after 10 years for women who have not yet decided whether they want to use their frozen eggs in treatment.
In her 2018 BioSocieties article, Jackson tackled some of the broader ethical issues raised by social egg freezing, which she describes as an ambiguous technology.
Looked at positively, it could be said to liberate women from the biological constraints of age-related fertility decline.
At the same time, some commentators have suggested it represents a medical solution to a social problem that also widens the gap between rich and poor women’s experiences of childbearing.
Jackson argues that, while egg freezing undoubtedly offers women more options, it is important they receive clear and robust advice about the likelihood that they will use their eggs, and the fact that most IVF cycles result in failure.
Egg freezing is expensive and invasive, and certainly does not guarantee a future baby.
Professor Jackson’s research has underpinned significant policy interventions aimed at reforming the law on egg freezing.
Since 2018, Jackson has worked closely with Baroness Ruth Deech, former Chair of the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority, and the Progress Educational Trust to campaign on this issue.
In 2019, Baroness Deech introduced the Storage Period for Gametes Bill to the House of Lords, which, if passed, will provide the option of extended storage for women who may still want to use their frozen eggs for fertility treatment.
Jackson advised on the Bill and its drafting, which also contained a requirement for the Department of Health and Social Care to open a consultation on the subject.
The government launched such a consultation in 2020, noting that there are “important arguments to consider about reproductive choice for women and how the current legislation may affect that”.
Alongside these legislative efforts, Jackson has worked with the Progress Educational Trust (PET) which has been spearheading an advocacy campaign entitled “#ExtendTheLimit”.
In line with her work to improve women’s access to information about the implications of fertility treatments, in 2016 Jackson was an adviser on the Timeless project, created to inform and engage women on the subject of egg freezing.
This included a pop-up “shop” in London’s Old Street tube station, which featured a range of fictional beauty products, branded Timeless and with names like “Eau so Pressured”, to communicate the facts around egg freezing in a visually arresting way.
Jackson contributed to the project’s short film and was a panellist for its event, “Should You Freeze Your Eggs?”.
The project received widespread press and broadcast media coverage.
In the New Scientist , Agatha Haines hailed Timeless for addressing the knowledge gap:
"This pop-up provocation provided women with an opportunity to discuss an intimate issue in an intimate setting.
Time spent here showed me how to think about an idea whose revolutionary promise is matched only by the dearth of public information about it."
Banner image credit: Rosalie Schweiker
Author(s) Emily Jackson

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/cpec:
CPEC is a leading international research centre carrying out world-class research in the areas of health and social care - across the life course - to inform and influence policy, practice, and theory globally.
Thu 5 Jun
Read the latest articles published by the Journal
Find out more about submitting a paper to the Journal
Find out more about the Journal's publisher, LSE Press
Join our mailing list and keep up with our activities
Connect with us to hear more about our work
Follow us to hear about our research, events and updates
+44 (0) 20 7955 6238
cpec@lse.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/CPNSS/home.aspx:
The Centre for Philosophy of Natural and Social Science (CPNSS) promotes research into philosophical, methodological and foundational questions arising in the natural and the social sciences.
The LSE's historic philosophy teaching department
The UK's professional society for philosophy of science
PI publishes the DVD library of Philosophy
Friday 04 October 2024
Youtube
Instagram
LSE (0)20 7405 7686
Email philcent@lse.ac.uk
Address, Lakatos Building, First Floor, London School of Economics, Houghton Street, London, WC2A 2AE

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/dsi:
An interdisciplinary institute fostering the study of data science and AI with a focus on the social sciences through research, education and engagement
Study
Engagement
Lila Ibrahim discusses the transformative potential of AI
LSE Blogs
Sign up to our newsletter to receive updates on all our activities
Follow us on X (Twitter)
Follow us on LinkedIn
Subscribe to our YouTube channel
Find out more about LSE membership of the TUN
An LSE100 course offered to all first-year undergraduate students at LSE
One of the LSE Student Union's premier societies
Annual Report 2023/24
+44 (0)207 955 7759
DSI.Admin@lse.ac.uk
Floor 1, Columbia House, Houghton Street, London, WC2A 2AE

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/fmg/home.aspx:
The Financial Markets Group (FMG) is a leading centre for research into financial markets.
Research at the FMG examines how stable and efficient the financial system is, how it supports the real economy, and what policy measures can generate improvements in these dimensions .
About the Centre
No upcoming events.
We present a model in which firms compete for workers who value nonpecuniary job attributes, such as purpose, sustainability, political stances, or...
We propose a novel measure that allows us to study memory associations in financial markets over the course of several decades.
Using our measure, we...
Entrepreneurship training programs across the world aim at boosting the success of startups.
But even when startups fail, these programs bring...
UK government bond yields tend to rise in a two-day window before labor market data releases and monetary policy news.
This effect, particularly...
© 2025 Financial Markets Group
- Web Designers - KD Web

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/africa:
The Firoz Lalji Institute for Africa (FLIA) focuses on engagement with Africa through cutting-edge research, teaching and public events, strengthening LSE’s long-term commitment to place Africa at the heart of understandings and debates on global issues.
020 7107 5356
africa@lse.ac.uk
Firoz Lalji Institute for Africa, 8th floor Pethick-Lawrence Building, London School of Economics and Political Science, London, WC2A 2AE

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/GranthamInstitute:
We use cookies.
Read more about them in our Privacy Policy .
View all Topics
View all Explainers
Pursued through research, policy analysis and training on climate change and the environment
Staff from the Institute have been chosen as lead and coordinating lead authors on two of the three Working Groups of the upcoming Seventh Assessment Report (AR7) of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC).
CETEx is a specialised research and policy centre which aims to support the ambitious reforms required to deliver sustainable, inclusive and resilient economies and financial systems across Europe.
The Just Transition Finance Lab is supporting the transformation of the global financial system in order to achieve progress on climate and wider environmental goals through a people-centred approach.
Climate Change Laws of the World builds on a decade of data collection and analysis by the Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and the Environment at LSE.
The TPI Centre is an independent, authoritative source of research and data into the progress being made by the financial and corporate world in making the transition to a low-carbon economy.
This website showcases concrete examples, practical guidance, and tools from the Coalition of Finance Ministers for Climate Action and a broader community of researchers, analysts, and practitioners.
This free event marks the official launch of the new book, “The Climate Diplomat,” by Pete Betts.
Read more﻿
Sign up to our newsletter
Email: Gri@lse.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0)207 955 6425 Grantham Research Institute LSE Houghton Street London WC2A 2AE
Further contact details and map
Copyright © LSE 2025

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/Hellenic-Observatory:
The Hellenic Observatory is internationally recognised as one of the premier research centres on contemporary Greece and Cyprus.
It engages in a range of activities, including developing and supporting academic and policy-related research; organisation of conferences, seminars and workshops; academic exchange through visiting fellowships and internships; as well as teaching at the graduate level through LSE's European Institute.
Greece@LSE
Keep up to date with HO events and activities
Find your way around the LSE
Departmental Research Unit Manager +44 (0)20 7107 5096
General Enquiries +44 (0)20 7107 5309
hellenicobservatory@lse.ac.uk
The Hellenic Observatory, Centre Building, European Institute,  London School of Economics, Houghton Street, London WC2A 2AE

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/International-Inequalities:
The International Inequalities Institute at LSE brings together experts from many LSE departments and centres to lead critical and cutting edge research to understand why inequalities are escalating in numerous arenas across the world, and to develop critical tools to address these challenges.
18 June
11 June
10 June
020 7955 7308
inequalities.institute@lse.ac.uk
International Inequalities Institute, London School of Economics & Political Science, 4th Floor, Centre Building, Houghton St, London, WC2A 2AE

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/lse-health/research:
LSE Health's unique research base contributes to LSE's established world presence and reputation in health policy, health economics, global health,  and health technology regulation & assessment.
Learn more about past LSE Health projects
Our COVID-19 research and response
Discover the cutting-edge research of our staff and affiliates
Connect with us to hear about our upcoming opportunities
Follow us to hear about our research, events and vacancies
Centre Manager +44 (0)20 7955 7392
Events and Communications +44 (0)20 7107 5134
General Enquiries +44 (0)20 7107 5696
lse_health@lse.ac.uk
LSE Health, Cowdray House, London School of Economics and Political Science, Houghton Street, London WC2A 2AE

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/ideas:
We connect academic knowledge of diplomacy and strategy with the people who use it.
Professor of International Relations, Director of LSE IDEAS
Assistant Professor, Deputy Director of LSE IDEAS
Director of the UN Business and Human Security Initiative
Exec MSc International Strategy and Diplomacy Programme Manag...
Latest news from LSE IDEAS.
IDEAS brings together leading scholars and practitioners of foreign policy and diplomacy.
Jobs, Fellowships, and other opportunities.
Sign up for LSE IDEAS reports, podcasts, & news in your inbox.
+44 (0)20 7107 5619
ideas@lse.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/Marshall-Institute:
The Marshall Institute works to improve the impact and effectiveness of private action for public benefit through research, teaching and convening.
+ 44 (0)20 7955 7655
marshallinstitute@lse.ac.uk
Marshall Institute, 44 Lincoln's Inn Fields, WC2A 3LY

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/Middle-East-Centre:
The Centre provides a central hub for the wide range of research on the Middle East and North Africa carried out at LSE.
General Enquiries | Nadine Almanasfi 020 7955 7038
Projects Enquiries | Kendall Livingston 020 7955 3625
Media Enquiries | Jack McGinn 020 7955 6932
Arabic Enquiries | Nesrin Alrefaai 020 7955 6508
General Enquiries | Nadine Almanasfi n.almanasfi@lse.ac.uk
Projects Enquiries | Kendall Livingston k.livingston@lse.ac.uk
Media Enquiries | Jack McGinn j.mcginn@lse.ac.uk
LSE Middle East Centre, PAN 10.01, Pankhurst House, Clement's Inn, London, WC2A 2AZ

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/SEAC/Home.aspx:
The Saw Swee Hock Southeast Asia Centre (SEAC) is a multidisciplinary, regionally-focused academic centre at the London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE).
Building on the School's deep academic and historical connections with Southeast Asia, SEAC seeks to foster world-leading academic research focused on the region’s cultural, economic, political, religious, and social landscapes, drawing on the LSE’s signature strengths in the social sciences, history, and law.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/accounting/CARR:
carr is an interdisciplinary research unit, whose core intellectual work focuses on the organisational and institutional settings for risk management and regulatory practices
Investigating how calls for more ‘responsive’ administrative state institutions have developed

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/tii:
Bringing together teaching, research and practice to build more inclusive work environments
Join the mailing list to stay updated
Meet the Team
Find out more
Follow us on Twitter
Take part in our research
Tel: 0
Email: TII@lse.ac.uk
The Inclusion Initiative, Room 9.01, Pethick-Lawrence House (PEL), 3 Clement's Inn, London WC2A 2AZ

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/school-of-public-policy/Research/LSE-Fudan-Global-Public-Policy-Hub:
The LSE-Fudan Global Public Policy Hub supports collaborative research on global public policy, fosters multi-disciplinary cooperation and enhances communication between Fudan and LSE to generate research of global impact.
The Hub is a sub-centre of the LSE-Fudan Research Centre for Global Public Policy, located in Fudan University, Shanghai and is jointly operated by the two universities

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/school-of-public-policy/Research/LSE-Growth-Lab:
The LSE Growth Lab works at the cutting edge of policy research.
We bring together practitioners and economists to design and evaluate policies that can generate inclusive prosperity.
The team at LSE is led by Professor Richard Davies .
We work closely with the Economics Observatory on events, data and publications.
You can read more about the Observatory here .
The Harvard Growth Lab, Directed by Professor Ricardo Hausmann, has been pushing the frontiers of development policy for 15 years.
The team, based in Cambridge, MA, has worked in over 30 countries.
You can view the work of the Growth Lab at Harvard here .
Mozambique, despite its rich natural resources and strategic geographical position, remains one of the poorest countries in the world, with significant economic disparities and a high poverty rate.
Between 2000 and 2015, Mozambique experienced notable economic growth driven by its extractive industries.
However, this growth did not translate into widespread poverty reduction, and income inequality worsened, with nearly half the population still living in poverty by 2015.
A series of domestic and external shocks have since hampered growth, further exacerbating the challenges.
The country's development issues are compounded by high population growth, a stagnant agricultural sector, and insufficient infrastructure, particularly in rural areas, which limits economic diversification and access to markets.
This study provided a growth diagnostic of Mozambique to identify policies that may unlock the country’s potential and accelerate inclusive growth.
The study was commissioned by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and completed in collaboration with the Ministry of Economy and Finance, USAID, the IMF, and the African Development Bank.
The primary constraints identified in Mozambique are poor infrastructure, particularly road networks, and a burdensome regulatory environment.
These factors limit private investment and hinder economic diversification, especially in the agricultural sector, which employs the majority of the workforce.
Additionally, the government's limited capacity to provide essential public goods, such as infrastructure and effective business regulations, contributes to a stable but suboptimal economic equilibrium.
To achieve inclusive growth, Mozambique must overcome these barriers by improving infrastructure and regulatory quality, enabling the economy to produce and export more complex goods and services.
The Growth Diagnostics Framework identifies these as the most pressing issues that must be addressed to unlock Mozambique's economic potential and ensure more equitable development.
You can watch the launch of the Mozambique Growth Diagnostic Brief in April 2024, here , and download the report here .
Inclusive growth has failed in South Africa: the country has experienced more than a decade of weak and slowing economic growth, losing economic diversity, complexity and international competitiveness over time.
Long-term problems include extreme inequality, widespread unemployment, and high prevalence of poverty.
This project diagnosed the causes of South Africa’s challenges and worked with government and stakeholders to accelerate growth and include more citizens in the process.
The work was jointly undertaken with South Africa’s National Treasury and was supported by the Centre for Development and Enterprise (CDE), one of South Africa’s leading think tanks.
Tanzania's manufacturing sector, despite the country's impressive GDP growth and attainment of lower-middle-income status, has not experienced the same level of development seen in other sectors like services.
While Tanzania's economy has shifted somewhat from agriculture to services, manufacturing's contribution to GDP has remained stagnant, growing only slightly from 7% in 1990 to 8.5% in 2021.
This slow growth is attributed to the dual nature of Tanzania's manufacturing sector, where a capital-intensive formal sector coexists with an unproductive, labor-intensive informal sector.
Decades of inward-oriented policies have led to a heavy reliance on the domestic market, with limited export sophistication and a persistent anti-export bias.
In partnership with the Investment Climate Reform Facility (ICR), the LSE Growth Lab deployed growth diagnostics within Tanzania’s manufacturing sector to promote a better understanding of the reasons why the country has failed to achieve its industrialization goals.
To unlock growth in Tanzania's manufacturing sector, the study suggests a strategic shift from domestic protectionism to enhancing export competitiveness..
This requires addressing the binding constraints identified in the growth diagnostic, including improving electricity generation and distribution, streamlining regulatory inefficiencies, and reducing red tape.
Additionally, Tanzania should reconsider its trade policies, gradually phasing out protections that contribute to the anti-export bias while reimagining Special Economic Zones (SEZs) to attract foreign investment and boost exports.
By targeting specific manufacturing sub-sectors with high export potential and leveraging existing knowledge and capabilities, Tanzania can position itself as a strategic player in East Africa, driving both its own economic development and that of its neighbors.
The UK has had mixed experience with macroeconomic modelling.
As part of its regular review of this area, the Economic and Social research Council (ESRC) commissioned us to provide an in-depth summary of the UK’s macroeconomic modelling landscape.
The report combined desk-research with in-depth interviews with economists working on UK models.
This work should help set out a path to future funding in this area.
The reconstruction of Ukraine will be a daunting challenge, involving multiple stakeholders such as governments, international financial institutions, private sector, civil society, and academia in and out of Ukraine.
To facilitate coordination across key stakeholders, the School of Public Policy organised and hosted the Ukraine Reconstruction Forum in May 2022.
The work of the LSE Growth Lab is varied and we often have short-term positions for researchers to help us deliver projects.
If you are interested, please email James Collis at j.d.collis@lse.ac.uk with the subject line ‘Student Research Assistance for Growth Lab’ or click here .
Professor Richard Davies
Director
James Collis
Deputy Director
Rahat Siddique
Policy Manager
Camila Arroyo
Policy Officer
Josh Hellings
Data Scientist
Finn McEvoy
Hannah Cantekin
Camelia Abdelgelil
Research Assistant
Louis Flamencourt
Gabriel Melmed
Header image: Aerial overhead township and wealthy suburb in South Africa, fivepointsix on iStock.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/lse-health/research/AHOP:
AHOP is hosted by the World Health Organization Regional Office for Africa (WHO AFRO) , which serves as the regional secretariat.
The partnership leverages existing national and regional collaborations to form a network of National Centres across the region.
These leading research institutions serve as the focal points for analysis and knowledge brokering within each country.
National Centres lead the technical work of the Platform, supported by and working with other partners to access primary research, academic networks, and expertise.
The Platform’s consortium includes the European Observatory on Health Systems and Policies , the London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE) , and other national, regional, and global partners.
AHOP is funded by the Gates Foundation .
Additional donors are expected to join as the Platform’s activities expand.
Click here for further details on AHOP.
Observatory model
The Platform joins the cohort of regional health systems observatories including the European Observatory on Health Systems & Policies and the Asia-Pacific Observatory (APO), which have shared lessons learned and approaches to inform the development of AHOP.
This evolving global model of knowledge brokering creates opportunities to compare and contrast health systems characteristics between countries and regions worldwide.
AHOP is also aligned to and hosted by WHO AFRO’s intergrated African Health Observatory (iAHO) .
AHOP outputs
The Platform is focused on the generation and exchange of knowledge and evidence for health systems and policy development in the African region.
We produce a range of health systems analysis at the national and regional level, focusing on evidence for action.
Recent publications :
AHOP National Centres
Ethiopia - College of Health Sciences, Addis Ababa University
Kenya - KEMRI Wellcome Trust
Nigeria - Health Policy Research Group, University of Nigeria
Rwanda - School of Public Health, University of Rwanda
Senegal - Institut Pasteur de Dakar
AHOP at LSE Health
Dorothy Chisare , Research Officer (On maternity leave)
Lesong Conteh , Associate Professorial Research Fellow (Academic Director)
Lucy Kanya , Assistant Professorial Research Fellow
Beth Kreling , Senior Policy Fellow (Operational Director)
Leon Janauschek , Policy Officer
Becky Musiega , Unit Manager
Bryony Simmons , Research Fellow
Visit the AHOP website
Sign up to our newsletter to get updates about our work, partnerships, and events.
Join us on Twitter @AHOPlatform
Visit the AHOP blog
For further information, please get in touch: ahop@lse.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/ageing:
A global and interdisciplinary perspective on ageing
Ageing@LSE  is a group of researchers recognised by the LSE that bring together academics from different social science disciplines interested in one of the worlds key challenges, namely population ageing together with inequality and climate change.
The group applies a global perspective to healthy ageing and population ageing, focusing on high-, low- and middle-income countries.
We aim to enhance collaboration between academics and early career researchers at LSE, and to coordinate and streamline LSE’s contribution to this area.
We are pleased to invite submissions for a Workshop on Ageing Research at the LSE, organised by the newly created Population and Healthy Ageing Group (PHAG; see more information below).
The workshop aims to bring together academics, early carer researchers and PhD students working on ageing at LSE across all disciplines and approaches globally.
We take a broad approach to the term ageing, and this workshop will be an opportunity to identify synergies in research and build collaborations.
We are a truly global group in terms of outreach and cover a wide array of areas that includes behavioural aspects of active ageing; formal and informal social care contracts; life course approaches to ageing; societal influences on the individual ageing process; intergenerational benefits of ageing well; intergenerational inequalities and old age poverty; critical perspectives of ageing; financial challenges; and wellbeing effects of retirement, among many others.
Publications
Secular trends in premature and early menopause in low-income and middle-income countries
The Chronic Disease Index: Analyzing Health Inequalities Over the Lifecycle*
The ageing of parent carers: classed and gendered care-giving patterns at higher ages
Equitable, sustainable and acceptable long-term care in Malawi?
Unpacking the implied universalism of key terms in international ageing policy discourse
The costs of inequality: whole-population modelling study of lifetime inpatient hospital costs in the English National Health Service by level of neighbourhood deprivation

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/management/research/bl:
We are a world-leading lab for behavioural insights and applications with innovative expertise and technology - at the heart of London and with a globally diverse pool of participants!

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/PBS/Research/Behavioural-Science-Hub/Behavioural-Science-Hub:
Research in the Department of Psychological and Behavioural Science investigates how social, psychological, and behavioural processes shape organisational, cultural, political, environmental and economic life.
We view the real world as our laboratory and psychology & behavioural science as a tool for understanding and addressing pressing social issues.
PBS contributed to 3 successful Units of Assessment

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/canada-blanch:
Promoting social innovation and reinforcing links between the United Kingdom and Spain.
Wed 25 Jun
Tue 17 Jun

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/africa/centre-for-public-authority-and-international-development:
CPAID explores how governance works in marginalised and conflict-affected regions as understood through the everyday lived realities of ordinary people.
World-leading researchers collaborate on long-term, cross-disciplinary fieldwork that does not assume that the state is the most important actor in people’s lives.
020 71075103

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/women-peace-security:
The LSE Centre for Women, Peace and Security is a leading academic space for scholars, practitioners, activists, policy-makers and students to develop strategies to promote justice, human rights and participation of women in conflict-affected situations around the world.
+44(0)20 3486 2959
women.peace.security@lse.ac.uk
London School of Economics and Political Science, Houghton Street

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/ideas/projects/Conflict-and-Civicness-Research-Group:
A network of in country research teams delivering locally driven policy advice.
ideas.ccrg@lse.ac.uk
Conflict & Civicness Research Group, LSE IDEAS, Floor 5, Connaught House, London, WC2A 2AZ

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/contemporary-turkish-studies:
The Chair in Contemporary Turkish Studies focuses on the politics and economy of Türkiye and its relations with the rest of Europe.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/law/criminal:
The aim of the Forum is to provide a platform for interdisciplinary dialogue on the criminal law and the criminal justice system.
Its members and affiliates (mainly from LSE Law School but also other LSE Departments and institutions) conduct research on various aspects of criminal law and criminal justice from a variety of methodological standpoints (moral, political and social theory, criminology, anthropology, epistemology etc.).
The Forum organises an annual seminar series on criminal law and criminal justice theory.
The aim of the series is to facilitate scholars and students coming together to discuss cutting edge research and share their views in a rigorous but friendly environment.
We see our seminars as a vital break from the ‘solitary confinement’ of academic rumination: an occasion to meet new people working or studying in the field and to strengthen the community of scholars interested in the criminal justice system.
We have had the pleasure to host some of the most established scholars worldwide in criminal law and criminal justice studies, but also younger scholars producing exciting new work.
See the posters in the right-hand column for the names of colleagues who presented their work in the Forum.
The seminars consistently attract a numerous and active audience of people from various backgrounds and areas of expertise, including philosophers, sociologists, criminologists, and lawyers.
The range of topics has been impressively wide.
This interdisciplinarity – which is a defining trait of the Forum and the LSE Criminal Law and Criminal Justice Group – has always enriched the experience of both speakers and attendees.
We regularly host book launches celebrating the publication of important new work (and putting it to close scrutiny!).
Some of our seminars are organised in co-operation with the LSE Mannheim Centre for Criminology .
The forum was greatly enriched by the participation of Prof.
Mike Redmayne , who passed away in June 2015.
Should you be interested in receiving details regarding the Forum or individual events do not hesitate to contact the Forum co-ordinator.
2025/26 Seminars and events
21 October 2025 Ian Loader, Oxford Beyond Motonormative Punishment:  On Road Safety as Environmental Regulation
18 November 2025 Johann Koehler, LSE Making Progress in the Chicago Police Department, 1862-2023
9 December 2025 Tareeq Jalloh, Oxford Speech Acts and Unspeakable Raps
20 January 2026 Jennifer Collins, Bristol The Challenges of Criminalizing Fraud
17 February 2026 Sharon Cowan, Edinburgh Arguments and Adversarialism: The Treatment of Complainers' Narratives in Scottish Rape Trials
17 March 2026 David Sklansky, Stanford Criminal Complicity and Coercive Control
Events take please in the Moot Court Room (LSE CKK Building, 7th floor) at 6.05pm.
A Zoom link will be circulated in advance of each seminar for those wishing to attend remotely.
For further information, contact f.picinali@lse.ac.uk
Dr Federico Picinali (LSE Law)
Dr Abenaa Owusu-Bempah (LSE Law)
Dr Leonidas Cheliotis (LSE Social Policy)
Jonathan Fisher QC (LSE Law)
Dr Janet Foster (LSE, Sociology)
Prof.
Jeremy Horder (LSE Law)
Jon Jackson (LSE, Methodology)
Dr Johann Koehler (Social Policy)
Nicola Lacey (LSE Law)
Dr Richard Martin (LSE Law)
Jill Peay (LSE Law)
Dr Peter Ramsay (LSE Law)
Robert Reiner (LSE Law)
Paul Rock (LSE Professor Emeritus of Sociology)
David Soskice (LSE Government)
Dr Roxana Willis (LSE Law)

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/social-policy/research/Research-clusters/EduHub:
The Education Research and Policy Hub (EduHub) in the Department of Social Policy brings together faculty, LSE Fellows, post-doctoral researchers and PhD students working on a broad range of educational issues.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/international-relations/centres-and-units/efpu:
The European Foreign Policy Unit (EFPU) acts as a focus for research and teaching on issues relating to the attempts to create a collective European foreign policy.
The International Relations Department is one of the world's leading centres for research into European foreign policy, and EFPU aims to build on and contribute to that reputation.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/lse-health/research/observatory:
The European Observatory on Health Systems and Policies works in partnership with researchers, research centres, governments and international organisations to comprehensively describe and analyse health systems and the changes they undergo and it engages directly with policy-makers.
The Observatory is hosted by the WHO Regional Office for Europe and is a partnership that includes the Governments of Austria, Belgium, Finland, Ireland, Norway, Slovenia, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom; the Veneto Region of Italy; the French National Union of Health Insurance Funds (UNCAM); the World Health Organization; the European Commission; the World Bank; the London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE); and the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine (LSHTM).
The Observatory is composed of a Steering Committee, core management team, research policy group and staff.
Its Secretariat is based in Brussels and has offices in London at LSE, LSHTM and the Technical University of Berlin.
The Observatory produces comprehensive reviews of health systems (HiTs) in over 50 countries in Europe and beyond.
It also produces comparative studies and policy briefs drawing together evidence on key policy issues.
Observatory staff based at LSE Health focus mainly on health systems in the European Union.
They also produce Eurohealth , a quarterly publication that provides a forum for researchers, policymakers and experts to debate health policy issues in Europe.
Join the Eurohealth mailing list and the Observatory's listserve.
Elias Mossialos , Co-Director of the Observatory
Jonathan Cylus , Head of Hub, Senior Research Fellow
Cristina Hernandez-Quevedo , Observatory Research Fellow
Sherry Merkur, Observatory Research Fellow
Anna Sagan , Observatory Research Fellow
Gemma Williams , Observatory Research Fellow
Connect with our staff and affiliates
Learn more about our news and upcoming events
Learn about our units and current projects
Events, Comms & General Enquiries +44 (0)20 7107 5696

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/Economic-History/Financial-History-Group:
Understanding money and finance through the lens of history

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/social-policy/research/Research-clusters/GSGIPL:
The Global Sexual & Gender Identities Policy Lab (GSGIPL) in LSE’s Department of Social Policy seeks to understand the impact of social and public policies on sexual and gender minorities and explore how policies can improve the well-being of people around the world, irrespective of their sexual orientation or gender identity.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/lse-health/research/GSPU/GSPU:
The Global Surgery Policy Unit (GSPU) is a unique and strategic collaboration between the Royal College of Surgeons of England (RCS) and the London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE).
Established to advance global public health, surgical and anaesthesia care, with a particular focus on low- and middle-income countries (LMICs), the Unit aims to increase access to safe, affordable, high quality surgery, to improve public health, patient safety and population health outcomes.
It will achieve this by:
Translating original and existing research and the impact of capacity building programmes into high-level public health policy and advocacy initiatives aimed at influencing decision-makers and donors.
Working with underserved communities, non-governmental organisations (NGOs), stakeholders and healthcare workers to empower, inform and improve understanding and practice.
Fostering the development of global health leaders, influencers and advocates through the provision of training and mentoring in research, surgical systems strengthening, programme evaluation and health economics
Creating opportunities and platforms to encourage sustained exchanges of expertise between clinical experts, policymakers, patients, healthcare workers and researchers in the field of global surgery, public health and anaesthesia policy.
Advocating for greater investment in global surgery and anaesthesia as an important driver in achieving the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs); improved health outcomes and universal health coverage (UHC).
Adopting a multi-sectoral, multidisciplinary approach to its activities and operations by engaging a range of individuals, including academics, clinicians, politicians, lawyers, economists and patients at local, national and international levels
The Unit is hosted by the LSE within the LSE Health research centre.
Launch of the Somaliland Paediatric Access and Clinical Excellence (SPACES)-ECHO programme in Hargeisa, Somaliland.
More than 90 people attended this event, including partners such as the Director General of the Ministry of Health, Amoud University, Population Services International, NGOs, etc.
Issues around strengthening Somalilands surgical care system were discussed during the event.
Training in Boroma (Somaliland) with focus on mixed methods evaluation
The Global Surgery Policy Unit held a four day training in Boroma (Somaliland) with focus on mixed methods evaluation.
Participants included researchers and faculty members from Amoud University, as well as members of the Ministry of Health.More than 35 participants joined and the training was conducted by Lucy Kanya (qualitative methods) and Rocco Friebel (quantitative methods).
Policy dialogue on surgical task-shifting in Addis Abeba, Ethiopa
A policy dialogue on surgical task-shifting was held in partnership with AHOP, WHO Afro, WHO Ethiopia, and partners from the Ministry of Health in Addis Abeba, Ethiopa.
The day-long event included key national and international stakeholders to discuss key regulatory aspects of task-shifting as an approach to grow the surgical workforce.
Meskerem Kebede from the Global Surgery Policy Unit was the chair of the event.
Launch Event
The Global Surgery Policy Unit was officially launched on the 27th January 2023 with a public event held in the Great Hall (Marshall building).
Information about the event, as well as the video and podcast can be found here .
Read the Launch Event Booklet
Dr Rocco Friebel Co-director of the Global Surgery Policy Unit; Deputy Director of LSE Health; Assistant Professor of Health Policy, Department of Health Policy, LSE
COW 2.09 R.Friebel@lse.ac.uk
Miss Rachel Hargest Co-Director of the Global Surgery Policy Unit;  Academic Colorectal Surgeon, Cardiff China Medical Research Collaborative
Dr Martilord Ifeanyichi Assistant Professorial Research Fellow, Global Surgery Policy Unit - RCS England & LSE
Room COW 1.12 M.I.Ifeanyichi@lse.ac.uk
Issy Marks Humanitarian Surgery Research Fellow, Humanitarian Surgery Initiative of RCS England
Gerard McKnight General Surgery Registrar (ST4); Royal Navy Medical Officer
Meskerem Kebede Research Officer, Global Surgery Policy Unit
COW 1.12 m.kebede@lse.ac.uk
Maeve Bognini NIHR Pre-Doctoral Fellow
COW 1.12 M.Bognini@lse.ac.uk
Mariam Dahir In-country Coordinator (Somaliland), Global Surgery Policy Unit
M.Dahir@lse.ac.uk
Hassan-Ali-Daoud In-country Coordinator (Somaliland), Global Surgery Policy Unit
If you are interested in hearing more about the Unit, please get in touch with us via our mailbox: Lsehealth.Globalsurgery@lse.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/International-Inequalities/Research/India-Observatory:
The India Observatory (IO) at the London School of Economics is involved in evidence based research and a strong public policy engagement in and with India and beyond.
We work in collaboration with international partners for the generation and exchange of knowledge on India and its position in the world.
It has a global focus, especially with respect to emerging economies.
This is to enable sharing knowledge and experiences between India and other countries with common synergies for better understanding and mutual benefit.
The IO is involved in developing, enhancing and undertaking high impact multi-disciplinary and interdisciplinary research at the LSE and beyond.
It has strong links with academic institutions; public and private sector institutions to further knowledge exchange and contributes to the debate on broader policy issues by promoting and supporting an active engagement around economics and social policy.
The India Observatory, established in 2006, operates in conjunction with the IG Patel Chair, forming a collaborative partnership with the Reserve Bank of India and the State Bank of India .
This initiative honors the legacy of Dr.
IG Patel , a highly distinguished Indian economist and public servant who served as the Director of the London School of Economics (LSE) from 1984 to 1990 and as the Governor of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) from 1977 to 1982.
Professor Lord Stern and Dr.
Ruth Kattumuri jointly serve as Co-Chairs of the India Observatory.
The IG Patel Chair and the India Observatory are deeply committed to conducting research and engaging in public policy discussions to address global societal challenges.
Their primary focus areas include sustainable growth, social inclusion, population development, and governance.
The India Observatory actively organizes and participates in dissemination activities, leveraging their research and public policy engagement efforts.
These activities span across the LSE campus and extend to various locations in the UK, India, and China, in collaboration with their partners.
The India Observatory plays a pivotal role in organizing executive training programs aimed at nurturing future leaders from emerging economies.
These programs encompass several key initiatives:
The India Observatory hosts and supervises post-doctoral and senior visiting scholars from various universities, public sector organizations, and private sector institutions across Asia.
Notable visiting fellowships include:
The India Observatory, in collaboration with the IG Patel Chair, stands as a prominent institution dedicated to research, policy engagement, and leadership development with a focus on addressing pressing global challenges.
Their multifaceted initiatives and partnerships underscore their commitment to promoting sustainable growth, social inclusion, and effective governance in the global context.
Since 2003, LSE has been intensifying its institutional engagement with India still further, developing strong links with Indian academic institutions, government and corporate bodies to foster exchange of ideas and research, contribute to capacity building and contribute to the debate on broader policy issues.
The story of LSE and India starts with the School's foundation in 1895.
As far back as 1912, an Indian was the first non-European president of the Students' Union.
Ralf Dahrendorf (1995) refers to the association between India and LSE as a story of soul mates.
Through exchanges with government and academic initiatives, LSE has been more deeply entrenched in Indian life than a few highly visible names could achieve.
In the words of a well-known Indian political leader, there is a vacant chair at every cabinet meeting in India reserved for the ghost of Professor Harold Laski.
Among the many famous Indians who have passed through LSE, two of the most prominent are Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar, a founding father of the Indian constitution and a leader of the Dalit community in India and ex-President KR Narayanan.
Nobel Laureate Professor Amartya Sen is an LSE Honorary Fellow.
Former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh is an Honorary Fellow of the Asia Research Centre.
Thus the LSE-India partnership has been sustained and strengthened over the years.
Dr IG Patel was the ninth Director of LSE from 1984-90.
In 1999 Professor Anthony Giddens, then Director of LSE and author of The Third Way, delivered the BBC Reith lecture in Delhi.
Former Director Howard Davies visited India in early 2004 when a memorandum of understanding was signed with the Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) for collaborative activities and projects / knowledge-exchange programmes to facilitate interaction on new innovations in business practices.
He also visited the then President of India Dr Abdul Kalam.
Dr Ruth Kattumuri (India Observatory Co-Chair)
Professor Lord Nicholas Stern (IG Patel Professor of Economics and Government; India Observatory Co-Chair; and Chair of the Grantham Research Institute)
Dr Sandeep Kumar Kujur (Subir Chowdhury Visiting Fellow)
Dr Niyathi R.
Krishna (Sir Ratan Tata Postdoctoral Visiting Fellow)
Dr Wasim Ahmad (Subir Chowdhury Visiting Fellow)
Dr Ashish Dongare (Sir Ratan Tata Postdoctoral Visiting Fellow)
Shantanu Singh (Research Fellow)
Dr Soham Sahoo (Subir Chowdhury Visiting Fellow)
Dr Malvika Tyagi (Sir Ratan Tata Fellow)
Akshita Goyal (Research Intern)
Manas Goyal (Research Intern)
Sophie Savage (Research Intern)
Mehak Garg (Research Assistant)
Kerrie Quirk (Administrative Staff)
Dr Ehtisham Ahmad
Professor Sumantra Bose
Dr Saipriya Kamath
Dr Sunil Kumar
Professor David Piachaud
Professor Tirthankar Roy
The India Observatory works in partnership with key academic, government and corporate organisations in order to:
Support and promote research into economic, social, developmental and cultural issues relevant to India
Promote research related to India within LSE by developing and supporting a network of academics from across the school
Forge partnerships with India, Asia, Europe and other regions for collaborative research and knowledge sharing issues related to India and Asia
Support public-private partnerships for research and dissemination
EFFECT – Ecosystems For Futuristic Entrepreneurship through Collaboration and Technology
The EFFECT project aims to explore opportunities and challenges for furthering knowledge economies in India and the UK, through partnerships that enable ecosystems for entrepreneurship.
This is to enhance mutual economic prosperity, human capital development and social welfare.
Using a systematic multi-disciplinary approach, the project focuses particularly on ecosystems for technology-based entrepreneurship including in financial services and FinTech.
Artificial Intelligence and Sustainable Development
The programme focuses on understanding and evaluating the deployment of AI technologies and prevalent algorithmic approaches with a focus on the enhancement of human capability.
Economic Development in Palanpur, A North Indian Village
The sixth and seventh rounds of study of Palanpur, Uttar Pradesh, India - led by Nicholas Stern - examine a perspective from seven decades of economic development in this north Indian village.
Environment Sustainability and Climate Change
The India Observatory works with the Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and the Environment, and the Bangalore Climate Change Initiative - Karnataka to develop research and programmes related to India on this theme.
Fiscal Policies and Governance of Financial Institutions
This research programme focuses on the current state of governance and stability of financial institutions across the world, with a particular reference to Indian financial institutions.
This collaborative research is by Ruth Kattumuri and Rachita Gulati.
Sustainable Human Capital Development
This programme focuses on skilling for human capital development by identifying the link between up-skilling, upward economic mobility and equitable economic development.
This programme is led by Ruth Kattumuri.
Urbanisation, Infrastructure and Governance
The LSE India Observatory and the University of Hyderabad , India, partnered jointly on this project.
The research was supported by a grant from UKIERI
Sir Ratan Tata Post-doctoral Fellowship
The Sir Ratan Tata Fellowship is available to scholars with experience researching on South Asia in the social sciences.
The Fellowship is for a period of six months.
Subir Chowdhury Post-doctoral Fellowship
The Subir Chowdhury Fellowship on Quality and Economics is available to scholars with experience researching on Bangladesh and/or India in the social sciences.
The Fellowship is for a period of three months.
India Observatory Visiting Fellowship
India Observatory Visiting Fellowships are available to individuals from outside LSE wishing to undertake multidisciplinary research on a full-time basis.
India Observatory Visiting Senior Fellowship
India Observatory Visiting Senior Fellowships are available to individuals from outside LSE wishing to undertake multidisciplinary research on a full-time basis.
Our objective is to develop the alumni networks in India in order to maintain and strengthen relationships with former students and friends, and to engage their active support.
We have been building, strengthening and supporting alumni networks in Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai and Bangalore through regular events and meetings.
Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar , Chief Architect of Indian Constitution
Mr Shail Anjarai, International Monetary Foundation
Mr Kalyan Banerji, World Bank
Mr Jyoti Kiran Basu, former Chief Minister of West Bengal
Professor Partha Dasgupta, Honorary Fellow LSE and Professor Emeritus of Economics, University of Cambridge
Mr Anthony Desai, Honorary fellow LSE and former Governor of West Bengal
Mr Ashok Desai ( in memory ), Attorney General of India (1996-1998) and Solicitor General of India (1989-1990)
Mr Nitin Desai , Honorary Fellow LSE and formerly of the United Nations
Dr John Matthai , First Railway Minister (1947-48) and subsequently Finance Minister (1949-50), Government of India
Mr VK Krishna Menon , motivator for India League; India's freedom movement
Shri Dr KR Narayanan , Honorary Fellow LSE and former President of India
Mr Aroon Purie , India Today Group founding Chairman and Editor-in-Chief
Dr Manmohan Singh, Honorary Fellow of Asia Research Centre and Former Prime Minister of India
Dr Tarlok Singh, Honorary Fellow LSE and India's first High Commissioner in London

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/International-History/IranianHistoryInitiative/Iranian-History-Initiative:
The Iranian History Initiative promotes the production of scholarly work on the modern history of Iran at LSE and provides an intellectual hub in London for both established and early career historians to exchange knowledge and engage in scholarly debate on the major issues and controversies in the historiography of modern Iran.
The main objectives of the IHI are as follows:
The Iranian History Initiative is a recognised research group embedded in the Department of International History at LSE.
Through its regular activities and events, the IHI facilitates cooperation on the study of modern Iranian history within the wider LSE community.
The IHI is subject to the policies, procedures and regulations of Research Governance at LSE .
Director of the Iranian History Initiative
Dr Roham Alvandi
Contact email: R.Alvandi@lse.ac.uk
It draws on the expertise of several faculty, research students, and visiting fellows in the department, as listed below.
Faculty
Dr David Motadel
Faculty Affiliate
Associate Professor of International History
Email: D.Motadel@lse.ac.uk
Dr Gagan Sood
Email: G.Sood1@lse.ac.uk
Research Students
Jean-Baptiste Ollieric
Student Affiliate
PhD Candidate, Department of International History
Jack Roush
Harriet Solomon
Visiting Fellows
N/A
Former Affiliates
Each year the Iranian History Initiative invites a world-leading historian of modern Iran to deliver the Gholam Reza Nikpay Annual Lecture at LSE.
This annual lecture was established in 2023 to honour the memory of one of LSE’s most distinguished Iranian alumni, Dr Gholam Reza Nikpay, who served as Minister of Housing from 1966 to 1969, Mayor of Tehran from 1969 to 1977, and subsequently a member of the Iranian Senate.
2024 Annual Lecture (14 November - 6pm to 8pm)
Speaker: Professor Ali Ansari
2023 Annual Lecture (26 November - 6pm to 8pm)
Speaker: Professor Houchang Chehabi
The Iranian History Initiative hosts a limited number of visiting fellows each year that are selected by the IHI and appointed by the Department of International History’s Research Committee.
Amir Khosrow Afshar Visiting Fellowship
The Iranian History Initiative invites applications for the Amir Khosrow Afshar Visiting Fellowship for the 2025-26 academic year.
This fellowship was established with the generous support of Mr Allahyar Afshar and honours the memory of Amir Khosrow Afshar, a distinguished Iranian stateman who served as Iranian Ambassador to France, Germany, and the United Kingdom, and as Foreign Minister of Iran from 1978 to 1979.
The Amir Khosrow Afshar Visiting Fellowship provides an opportunity for an external post-doctoral scholar of modern Iranian history, including both early-career researchers and established scholars, to travel to London and be affiliated with LSE while conducting research on any aspect of the modern history of Iran between 1500 and 1979.
This might include research at the UK National Archives, the British Library, the LSE Library and Archives, or other libraries and archives in London and the UK.
The Iranian History Initiative particularly welcomes applications from scholars based outside of the UK; from scholars whose research involves the use of Persian-language primary sources; and from scholars working on any aspect of the history of Pahlavi Iran (1921-1979).
The Afshar Fellowship is tenable for a period of one month during either the Autumn (29 September to 12 December 2025), Winter (19 January to 2 April 2026) or Spring (5 May to 19 June 2026) terms at LSE.
Fellowships are not tenable outside of these dates of term.
Afshar Fellows will be reimbursed up to £2,000 for the cost of return economy travel to London, up to £125 per night for accommodation for a maximum of 31 days stay in London, and up to £125 for UK visa expenses.
Fellows will be formally affiliated with the Iranian History Initiative and the Department of International History at LSE.
Afshar Fellows will receive an LSE ID card, granting them access to campus buildings, including the LSE Library.
An IT account, including LSE e-mail and access to the LSE Library’s online resources, will also be provided.
Afshar Fellows are expected to attend IHI and departmental events during the period of their residency in London and to present their research in a departmental forum or public event.
Applications, consisting of a r esearch proposal (no more than three pages) and CV, should be made by email to Dr Roham Alvandi (R.Alvandi@lse.ac.uk) in the first instance by no later than 21 February 2025 .
Applications will be assessed by a selection committee and the fellowship will be awarded by the Department of International History’s Research Committee.
Former Amir Khosrow Afshar Fellows
Non-Stipendiary Visiting Fellows
The Iranian History Initiative welcomes expressions of interest from external post-doctoral scholars at all levels, both established and early-career historians, who wish to be affiliated with the Iranian History Initiative during their appointment as an unfunded or externally funded visiting fellow in the Department of International History.
Details on the Department of International History’s visiting fellowship scheme are available HERE .
Prospective visiting fellows who wish to apply under this scheme and be affiliated with the Iranian History Initiative should send a CV and research proposal to Dr Roham Alvandi in the first instance.
All visiting fellows are appointed by the Department of International History’s Research Committee.
Former Non-Stipendiary Visiting Fellows
The Iranian History Initiative and the Department of International History welcome applications for the Dr Nasrollah Moghtader-Mojdehi PhD Scholarship.
This studentship is tenable for four years, commencing in September 2025, and covers full fees and an annual stipend of £21,660 for a PhD student in the Department of International History, whose research is focused on any aspect of the modern history of Iran.
This scholarship was established with the generous support of Mr John Moghtader-Mojdehi and the LSE PhD Academy .
It honours the memory of Dr Nasrollah Moghtader-Mojdehi, a distinguished Iranian physician, educator, and public servant.
From 1966 to 1974, Dr Mojdehi served as Professor of Internal Medicine, Dean of the Faculty of Medicine, and Vice-Chancellor at the University of Tehran.
He was then appointed Chancellor of the University of Mashhad in 1974, before being elected to the Iranian Senate in 1976.
In 1978, he served as Iran’s Minister of Health.
Applications for the Moghtader-Mojdehi Scholarship are particularly welcome from applicants who propose to work on any aspect of the history of Pahlavi Iran (1921-1979); who plan to use Persian-language primary sources in their research; and who have completed their undergraduate degree at a university in Iran.
Further information on how to apply for the MPhil/PhD in International History is available HERE .
Please indicate in your Statement of Academic Purpose that you wish to be considered for the Moghtader-Mojdehi scholarship.
Applicants are encouraged to contact Dr Roham Alvandi ( r.alvandi@lse.ac.uk ) in the first instance with a CV and PhD research proposal (no longer than 1,500 words), before submitting their application to LSE.
All applications for the Mojdehi PhD Scholarship will be assessed by a selection committee and the scholarship will be awarded by the Department of International History’s Research Committee.
Amir Khosrow Afshar Essay Prize
The Amir Khosrow Afshar Essay Prize is awarded annually to the best student essay, or essays, on any aspect of the modern history of Iran.
This prize was established with the generous support of Mr Allahyar Afshar and honours the memory of Amir Khosrow Afshar, a distinguished Iranian stateman who served as Iranian Ambassador to France, Germany, and the United Kingdom, and as Foreign Minister of Iran from 1978 to 1979.
Each year, a winner is selected in either one or both of two separately judged categories: graduate and undergraduate students.
The prize(s) will be awarded to the best essay(s) on any aspect of the modern history of Iran spanning any period between 1500 and 1979.
The winner will receive an award of £2,000 or, should two winners be chosen, £1,000 each.
Essay submissions should make use of primary sources and conform to the Iranian Studies journal style guide.
Submissions should be no longer than 10,000 words, including footnotes, but excluding any bibliography.
Submissions will be assessed by a selection committee based on the strength and originality of the research.
You can view the Iranian Studies journal style guide HERE .
Eligible students are those currently registered for a degree programme in the Department of International History, or who have been registered in the previous academic year.
Previous winners will not be eligible and submitted essays must not have been published elsewhere.
Applications for the inaugural prize will open in the Spring Term 2026.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/sociology/human-rights/research/laboratory-for-advanced-research:
The global economy generates wealth and prosperity just as it engenders poverty, inequality, and injustice.
The systemic flaws in the operation of cross-border markets are evident where the mechanics of the global economy enable or exacerbate deprivation, food insecurity, capital flight, the exploitation of natural resources, or environmental harms.
These crises might point to failures of domestic and multilateral governance, to failures of law, regulation and systems of accountability, as well as to the need to interrogate the dominant paradigms that shape the international economic order.
Situated at LSE Human Rights and directed by Dr Margot Salomon , the Laboratory for Advanced Research on the Global Economy probes the challenges posed by the complexities of the global economy and their implications for human well-being.
The Lab has been set up to create a dynamic space for research, from the conceptual to the practical and across disciplines, on the myriad places where human rights, fairness and justice intersect with economic globalisation.
The Lab will initiate and support cutting-edge research, identify and address gaps in policy and practice, and consolidate and cross-fertilise high-quality scholarship that is on-going but too often streamed into separate tracks.
The Lab will provide a hub for creative work to undertake advanced theoretical, normative, as well as applied research on issues central to concerns around justice under conditions of globalisation.
The inaugural phase of the Lab's work was funded by the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the support is gratefully acknowledged.
Podcast: Fresh Squeezed!
The Opinio Juris Podcast, Episode 1:2, Dr Margot Salomon
Dr Margot Salomon‘s interview for the new Opinio Juris podcast series, Fresh Squeezed , is now available.
In a series that seeks to ‘push the boundaries of international law’, Margot addresses entanglements of international human rights law with capitalism.
She presents the past, present and possible postcapitalist future of human rights and, drawing on her own research over two decades, situates the emancipatory potential of human rights within a wider turn seen in the social sciences: away from exploitation and towards community, cultural economies, economic democracy, and much else.
In introducing the interview, the host Mohsen Al Attar remarked that ‘This was more than just an interview; it was an intellectual journey designed to broaden our thinking’.
The English transcript will be translated into Arabic, Chinese, French, Hindi, Portuguese, and Spanish.
(November 2023)
Book Launch: The Accumulation of Waste: A Political Economy of Systemic Destruction by Ali Kadri Phenomenal waste has surfaced as the social form and substance of value.
In capital’s totalizing process, which commodifies all that comes in its way, wasting classes consume the wasted classes.
This book addresses the metamorphosis of value into waste and it focuses on wars as industries of perfect waste.
Whereas wasted man is visibly the prevalent commodity on sale, this central element in the commodity relation is rarely mentioned.
In line with this, the book examines how waste, as a surrogate value, eludes the crises of capital and maintains its resilience.
(August 2023)
Find out more about the book here .
Journal article: Emancipating Human Rights: Capitalism and the Common Good by Dr Margot E Salomon This article begins with a study of the political economy of welfare capitalism to demonstrate how the private quest for profit was never going to be undermined by the advance of socio-economic rights.
Contrary to the conventional view among human rights lawyers, capital draws power from its rights or welfarism.
It is in recognizing the role that socio-economic rights play in serving capitalism that the field of international law concerned with structurally transformative human rights can begin to explore how socio-economic rights inhibit alternative forms of social organization.
This work then turns to investigate how socio-economic rights might yet emancipate people from capitalist property relations.
(June 2023)
Book Launch: The Capital Order: How Economists Invented Austerity and Paved the Way to Fascism by Clara Mattei In The Capital Order, political economist Clara E.
Mattei explores the intellectual origins of austerity to uncover its originating motives: the protection of capital—and indeed capitalism —in times of social upheaval from below.
Drawing on newly uncovered archival material from Britain and Italy, much of it translated for the first time, The Capital Order offers a damning and essential new account of the rise of austerity—and of modern economics.
Hosted with LSE Law School 9 November 2022, 5.00pm to 6.30pm
Register here to attend in person Register here to attend online via the webinar
This urgent set of interviews on the ‘ IMF and Human Rights ’ with political economists, economists and lawyers is part of a Special Issue of the journal Revista Derechos en Acción from Argentina, co-edited by Juan Pablo Bohoslavsky and Francisco Cantamutto.
In collaboration with the SPEAK OUT!
series at the Lab, we are very pleased to be able to share these powerful proposals ready to be actioned if the IMF and its member states are willing to take people and their human rights seriously.
The contributors are Blyth, Burrow, García Muñoz, Ghosh, Girón, Ortiz & Cummins, Salomon, Sundaram, Ugarteche Galarzac, Varoufakis, and von Bogdandy, with a compelling foreword by Martti Koskenniemi.
( May 2021 )
A Theory of Forced Labour Migration
Dr Ali Kadri, former Visiting Fellow of the Lab, has published a new book which focuses on labour dislocation and migration of Palestinians between 1967 and 1992.
His work is rich with theoretical insight and practical lessons; his use of language unforgiving and poetic; his challenges to the violence of capitalism essential.
Are There Global Obligations to Assist in the Realization of Socio-Economic Rights?
Hosted with Department for Law and the Laboratory for Advanced Research on the Global Economy at LSE Human Rights
Wednesday 11 March 2020, 6:30pm to 8:00pm 32L.B.07, 32 Lincoln's Inn Fields
Speaker: Dr Elena Pribytkova (European University Institute, Hebrew University of Jerusalem and University of Basel) Chair: Dr Margot Salomon (LSE)
Find out more about the event
Dr Margot Salomon wins European Society of International Law Book Prize 2019
We are delighted to announce that Margot Salomon, LSE Human Rights Member (Law),  has just won the prestigious 2019 Book Prize awarded by the European Society of International Law.
The ESIL Book Prize is awarded each year at the ESIL Annual Conference for an outstanding published work in the field of international law.
The jury was unanimous in awarding The Misery of International Law: Confrontations with Injustice in the Global Economy (OUP 2018) to Margot and her co-authors, John Linarelli (Durham) and Sornarajah (Singapore).
19 September 2019
Nihilists, Pragmatists and Peasants
Margot Salomon's recent publication ‘Nihilists, Pragmatists and Peasants’ exemplifies the contradictions faced by economic justice advocates who by working through international human rights law must confront international law’s contemporary capitalist background structure.
See it here as an NYU Institute for International Law and Justice, MegaReg Working Paper.
18 September 2019
Legal Trajectories of Neoliberalism: Critical Inquiries on Law in Europe
Recently published is a collection of think pieces on ‘Legal Trajectories of Neoliberalism: Critical Inquiries on Law in Europe’ (2019) edited by Margot Salomon and Bruno de Witte.
This volume is available here as a Working Paper for the Robert Schuman Centre for Advanced Studies, EUI.
Imperialism with Reference to Syria
Dr Ali Kadri published an extended essay which investigates the meaning of imperialism in Syria, providing a valuable addition to the ongoing debate on the Syrian crisis through the lens of imperialism, modern warfare, and geopolitics.
It offers a detailed analysis of how the Syrian war has been the product of imperialist ambitions.
Read this article excerpted from the book .
Andrea Shemberg chairs discussion on human rights impact assessments of trade agreements
On 26 February, Andrea Shemberg, Visiting Fellow of the Laboratory for Advanced Research on the Global Economy, chaired a discussion at Chatham House in London on human rights impact assessments (HRIA) of trade agreements.
The basis for the discussion was a report authored by Dr.
Jennifer Zerk, Chatham House Associate Fellow in the International law Programme.
Shemberg has published a short blog post with reflections from the event on the LSE Investment & Human Rights Hub - read the blog here .
Can companies do business with Israeli settlements in Occupied Palestinian Territory while respecting human rights?
Speakers: Peter Frankental, Economic Relations Programme Director Amnesty International, UK Dr.
Jan Kleinheisterkamp, LSE Law Department, Transnational Law Project Dr.
Phyllis Starkey, Independent Policy Adviser and Former MP Peter Webster, CEO of the EIRIS Foundation Chair: Andrea Shemberg, Visiting Fellow, Laboratory for Advanced Research on the Global Economy, LSE Human Rights Date: Wednesday 14 November 2018, 7.15pm - 8.30pm Venue: Alumni Theatre, New Academic Building (NAB) Co-hosted with the Department of Law at LSE.
The Glocal Governance of Transgression: Corruption Rules Beyond the State and the Problems of Transnational Criminal Law Speaker: Dr Radha Ivory,  Lecturer, TC Beirne School of Law at The University of Queensland Chair: Dr Ian Patel, BJS LSE Fellow, LSE Human Rights Date: Monday 12 February 2018, 6.30pm - 8.00pm Venue: NAB.1.04 - New Academic Building, Lincoln's Inn Fields
Dr Ali Kadri joins the Lab as Visiting Fellow
Ali Kadri is a Senior Fellow at the National University of Singapore and formerly Head of the Economic Analysis Section at the United Nations regional office for Western Asia.
Ali’s scholarship has focused on de-development and the issue of accumulation through destruction, the production of waste and militarism.
Recent books include The Unmaking of Arab Socialism (2016) where he shows that the destructive tendencies of imperialism in the Arab world and Africa are neither accidental nor historically contingent, but systemic and necessarily rooted in the global crisis of overproduction.
His most recent work is The Cordon Sanitaire: a Single Law Governing Development in East Asia and the Arab World (2017).
Lab Visiting Fellow hosted Chilean government officials to discuss business and human rights
Andrea Saldarriaga, Visiting Fellow with the Laboratory for Advanced Research on the Global Economy, hosted a delegation of four representatives from the Chilean government, including the Under-Secretary for the Economy and Business and President of the Social Responsibility Council for Sustainable Development.
The meeting  addressed the Chilean National Action Plan on Business and Human Rights (NAP) and explored possible avenues for effective implementation, including in the area of foreign investment.
Dr.
Jan Kleinheisterkamp, Associate Professor of Law at the LSE and Andrea Shemberg, Visiting Fellow Laboratory for Advanced Research on the Global Economy,  attended to provide their expertise.
The meeting was one important piece of work that Saldarriaga is undertaking to build understanding around State implementation of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
On 26 November 2016 the Investment & Human Rights Project (IHRP) issued its recommendations to the government of Colombia to address investment policy in its National Action Plan (NAP) on Business and Human Rights.
The recommendations are part of the IHRP’s work to support the implementation of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights State Duty to Protect (DtP) and improve guidance available to States on foreign direct investment and investment policy in the development of NAPs.
See English summary or Spanish full version here .
On 16 November 2016, the Investment and Human Rights Project (IHRP) at the Centre’s Laboratory for Advanced Research on the Global Economy and the UN Working Group on Business and Human Rights hosted a joint session at the UN Annual Forum on Business and Human Rights.
The session addressed how States should implement the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPS) in the context of investment policy, drawing on the recent work by the IHRP in Colombia and Indonesia.
The UN Panel discussion brought together representatives from both countries to discuss the current plans for investment policy to be included in their respective National Action Plans to implement the UNGPs.
Andrea Shemberg of the IHRP was on the Panel along with a representative of Rio Tinto.
Dante Pesce of the working group moderated.
The UN Annual Forum is a public meeting, but registration was required here
Dr Nicolas Bueno, Lab Visiting Fellow, has written a new article ' Corporate Liability for Violations of the Human Right to Just Conditions of Work in Extraterritorial Operations ' published in The International Journal of Human Rights (2017).
Speakers: Radhika Balakrishnan, Diane Elson, James Heintz.
Chair: Dr Polly Vizard, Associate Director and Associate Professorial Research Fellow, CASE.
28 February 2017
Speaker: George Katrougalos, Alternative Minister for European Affairs - Foreign Ministry, Greece and Professor of Public Law.
Chair: Professor Kevin Featherstone, Eleftherios Venizelos Professor of Contemporary Greek Studies and Professor of European Politics.
Discussant: Sarah Paterson, Assistant Professor of Law.
14 November 2016
Speaker: Dr Matthias Goldmann.
Chair: Dr Margot Salomon.
5 May 2016
Speaker: Dr Radha Ivory.
11 February 2016
On 26 November the Investment & Human Rights Project (IHRP) issued its recommendations to the government of Colombia to address investment policy in its National Action Plan (NAP) on Business and Human Rights.
See English summary .
This new initiative offers a series of interviews with economists engaging with human rights law and the objectives that animate it.
The central aim of the Series is to discover and deepen existing synergies between the two fields in the interest of social justice.
The Economics and Law in Conversation Series is moderated by Dr Joshua Curtis, Visiting Fellow at the Lab.
On 16 November, the Investment and Human Rights Project (IHRP) and the UN Working Group on Business and Human Rights will host a joint session at the UN Annual Forum on Business and Human Rights.
The session will address how States should implement the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPS) in the context of investment policy, drawing on the recent work by the IHRP in Colombia and Indonesia.
The work of the Lab's Investment & Human Rights Project has informed the latest report of the UN Working Group on Business and Human Rights to be presented to the Human Rights Council's 29th session, 15 June - 3 July 2015.
In its report the UN Working Group draws on the Investment & Human Rights Project's contribution to the World Investment Forum organised by the UN Conference on Trade and Development in October 2014.
Dr Margot Salomon, Lab Director, was invited by the Speaker of the Greek Parliament to join the Special Committee of the Hellenic Parliament for the Audit of the Greek Debt (Debt Truth Committee).
The Committee operates under the auspices of the Hellenic Parliament to evaluate Greek debt and to address whether parts of it may be deemed illegal, illegitimate or unsustainable.
On 4 March 2015, Andrea Shemberg, co-lead of the Lab's Investment and Human Rights Project, was part of an invited panel of specialists brought together for a Chatham House seminar to discuss the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) between the EU and the US: TTIP: Shaping the Future of Investor−State Dispute Settlement?
On 25-27 February 2015, Andrea Saldarriaga, co-lead of the Investment and Human Rights Project, participated in UNCTAD’s Expert Meeting on The Transformation of the International Investment Agreement Regime in Geneva, Switzerland.
The purpose of the meeting was to discuss the need for reform and identify strategies to help shape a sustainable-development friendly international investment framework.
During 2015, Dr Margot Salomon, Professor John Linarelli and Professor M Sornarajah will conduct collaborative research on the international legal regimes of investment, trade, finance and human rights and the terms on which humanity has been challenged by them.
This project is a study of what is in essence the economic violence of international law and the basis for its redemption.
On 28 October 2014 the Lab hosted the launch of Arab Development Denied: Dynamics of Accumulation by Wars of Encroachment .
Dr Ali Kadri, member of the Lab's Sounding Board, was joined by Professor John Weeks (SOAS) and Dr Jason Hickel (LSE) for a discussion on Kadri's examination of how the Arab world has undergone a process of developmental descent, or ‘de-development’ over the past three decades.
On 17 October 2014 the Lab hosted a guest seminar, Balancing Human Rights and Investor Protection: Kyrgyzstan’s gold mining sector by Begaiym Esenkulova of the American University of Central Asia.
Esenkulova presented her research on Kyrgyzstan’s investment policy regarding gold mining and the potential to reform it in order to align human rights and investor protection.
An audio recording of our panel discussion Human Rights, Globalization and How to Save the World , which took place on 1 May 2014 and featured contributions from Professor Julio Faundez, Dr Asunción Lera St Clair (pictured), Craig Mokhiber and Dr Margot Salomon, is online.
On 10 April 2014, the Lab's Investment & Human Rights Project launched the Investment & Human Rights Learning Hub where users can explore the connections between investment and human rights, find relevant resources in the toolboxes, watch learning videos and read expert articles on a range of investment and human rights themes.
Economists As Political Philosophers: The Neoclassical Vision And Free Trade .
On 14 March 2014, in a Lab seminar, Dr Robert Lepenies from the European University Institute in Florence presented his work to responses from Dr Andrew Lang (LSE) and Professor Leif Wenar (KCL).
In December 2013, the Lab's Investment & Human Rights Project participated in the UN Annual Forum on Business and Human Rights.
Andrea Saldarriaga moderated a multi-stakeholder panel discussion on Investment and Human Rights and Andrea Shemberg was a panellist in the discussion on the application of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights to state-owned financial institutions.
At the UN Forum the Investment and Human Rights Project supported the launch of the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights' training on the UN Principles for Responsible Contracts integrating human rights risk management into State-Investor contract negotiations.
The Lab's first public event Greed, Humanity and the Neoliberal Retreat in International Law took place on Thursday 31 October 2013.
The event headlined Professor M.
Sornarajah, the Lab's inaugural Visiting Professor.
'International Law and Capitalism': De Volkskrant longread interview with Dr Margot Salomon (April 2024)
The major Dutch broadsheet, de Volkskrant, popped over to London to interview Margot on international law and capitalism for a Saturday special series.
During the extended interview, Margot explained the ways in which international law entrenches commodification and exploitation and the routes through which dominant interests are given primacy.
After warning that alternatives to transnational accumulation are too easily dismissed, Margot closes the interview with bottom up solutions that secure economic democracy, centre local communities and their knowledge, and challenge legalized systems of oppression.
Also recently interviewed as part of this series are the Marxist philosopher Kohei Saito and Martin Wolf of the Financial Times.
New working paper out August 2019: Legal Trajectories of Neoliberalism: Critical Inquiries on Law in Europe , Margot E Salomon and Bruno de Witte (eds)
Law is not merely a tool to resolve disputes and protect some people’s human rights; it is a mediator and an enabler.The focus of this workshop and its think pieces produced herein was on where and how the form and content of law in this dark period of Europe’s present – its core tenets, contemporary assumptions and organization, its rules and their interpretation – contribute to the dominant project that is neoliberalism.
The project was supported by the European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under the Marie Sklodowska-Curie grant agreement No 703063 on ‘Legal Rights and the Political Economy of Debt and Austerity in Europe’ held by Dr Margot Salomon at the Robert Schuman Centre for Advanced Studies (RSCAS), European University Institute (EUI).
Zeit Online: International creditors must respect human rights in Greece, including Germany .
Interview with Dr Margot Salomon 20 July 2015
Open Global Rights: Corporate concern for human rights essential to tackle climate change by Asuncion Lera St.
Clair, Senior Principal Scientist of the Climate Change Program at DNV GL Strategic Research and Innovation and member of the Lab's Sounding Board.
In her latest article Of Austerity, Human Rights and International Institutions , Dr Margot Salomon, Lab Director, offers a timely set of arguments as to what is required as matters of law and societal expectation when it comes to having international institutions respect socio-economic rights.
Open Global Rights: Human Rights - help or hindrance to combatting climate change?
by Usha Natarajan, Assistant Professor in the Department of Law at the American University in Cairo, and member of the Lab's Sounding Board.
Open Global Rights: One step forward, two back?
Dalit women’s rights under economic globalisation by Rachel Kurian, Assistant Professor in the International Institute of Social Studies of the Erasmus University and member of the Lab's Sounding Board.
Open Global Rights: Where the Emperor can’t enter: rethinking the case for property and housing rights in China .
Eva Pils is Associate Professor, Centre for Rights and Justice, Faculty of Law of the Chinese University of Hong Kong and member of the Lab Supper Club.
Open Global Rights: Independent and impartial?
Re-thinking the adjudication of trade and investment disputes by Professor Krista Nadakavukaren Schefer, professor of international law at the University of Basel’s Faculty of Law and member of the Lab's Sounding Board.
Open Global Rights: In the second Lab post on the Open Global Rights blog, researcher Louis Karaolis addresses the double European crisis of debt and asylum in A post-modern Greek tragedy - austerity and asylum in times of crisis .
Open Global Rights: The Lab is now a regular contributor to the Open Global Rights blog on Open Democracy.
Open Global Rights is a multilingual, online forum for debating human rights worldwide.
In the first blog from the Lab, Austerity, Human Rights and Europe’s Accountability Gap , Lab Director Dr Margot Salomon details how a range of actors responsible for austerity measures in Greece is at best ignoring and, at worst, violating socio-economic rights.
Lab Director, Dr Margot Salomon, was interviewed by Canada's foreign relations council as part of a series of interviews with Canadians who have made notable contributions to debates on global issues.
In 'Where Human Rights Law Meets Globalisation' Dr Salomon talks about how globalisation has shaped the concept of human rights, how international organisations and companies can be held accountable for human rights abuses, and how our current system actually undermines development.
This urgent set of interviews on the ‘ IMF and Human Rights ’ with political economists, economists and is part of a Special Issue of the journal Revista Derechos en Acción from Argentina, co-edited by Juan Pablo Bohoslavsky and Francisco Cantamutto.
In the latest Speak Out piece, Introduction to the Human Economy , Dr Nicolas Bueno questions the social necessity of traditional paid work.
He presents the human economy framework outlined in the article ‘ From the Right to Work to Freedom from Work ’ (International Association of Labour Law Journals Award 2017).
How to reduce the fear of being unemployed, the risks associated with quitting an unfulfilling job or retiring earlier?
Is there an economic model that could make us freer from traditional paid work and would work for all in both developing and developed countries?
The discussion in this piece goes beyond the idea of a basic income.
After presenting the historical origins of the right to work, influenced by the dogma of work, this piece introduces the terminology of the human economy.
It questions the necessity of traditional paid work and discusses how it may be possible to achieve greater freedom from work whilst simultaneously securing a wide range of human benefits.
Read Introduction to the Human Economy here
In this piece on Development under Uncertainty in the Arab World , Dr Ali Kadri discusses obstacles to development in the Arab world with emphasis on the baleful impact of conflicts.
He tells us about the social efficiency criterion, the legal corruption of institutional lenders, and how private interests exhibit a necrotrophic relationship with the public sector or indigenous economy.
The key question to investigate, it is said, is the relationship between wars and violent social order restructuring.
Read the first piece in the series of Speak Out!
Economics and Law in Conversation
This new initiative offers a series of interviews with economists engaging with human rights law and the objectives that animate it.
The central aim of the Economics and Law in Conversation Series is to discover and deepen existing synergies between the two fields in the interest of social justice.
In the final reflection piece for our Series of Conversations, Dr Joshua Curtis describes some of the major themes that emerged from the interviews with economists.
Within the context of a suggested merger of heterodox economics and human rights law, the piece stresses strong commonalities including a shared depth of ethical commitment and a common aversion to technocratic policy solutions.
Dr Curtis was a Visiting Fellow at the Lab from 2015-2016 and moderated the Series.
He is currently a Postdoctoral Research Associate at the School of Law and Social Justice, University of Liverpool.
Read the final reflection piece in our Series on Economics and Law in Conversation.
In our third Conversation, Ha-Joon Chang, Reader in Economics at Cambridge University, offers his thoughtful perspective on the relationship between economics, law and in particular human rights.
He shows how an accurate picture of history, and a refusal to separate theoretically economics from politics, are both necessary to demystify the economic field and to think clearly about the laws and regulations that our present society requires.
Read the third entry in our Series on Economics and Law in Conversation
In our second Conversation, Margaret Somers, Professor of Sociology at the University of Michigan, traverses the relationship between a new sociology of human rights, the nature of citizenship and the structure of our political economy.
She relates the lessons of Polanyi's work regarding the dependence of markets on social relations to the widening cracks in our present economic paradigm to then point us towards change.
Read the second entry in our Series on Economics and Law in Conversation
In our first Conversation, Radhika Balakrishnan, an economist and Professor in Women's and Gender Studies at Rutgers University, shares her knowledge and experience of years of work at the intersection of human rights and economic policy.
Read the first in our Series on Economics and Law in Conversation
Lab 'Views
In this inaugural series of interviews the Lab reaches out to Sounding Board members to find out how injustice functions in the areas in which they work and how the Lab's creative focus across disciplines can help inform their research.
LAB 'views
In the third in our series of interviews with Lab affiliates Dr Ali Kadri unpacks a complex and violent account of financialisation, militarisation and oil in the Middle East, and explains how human rights and sovereignty over natural resources of disempowered national working classes challenge economic orthodoxy.
Dr Kadri is a member of the Lab Sounding Board.
Read the interview
Lab 'views
In the second of our series of interviews with Lab affiliates we asked Dr Rachel Kurian to explain the role of 'flexicurity' when it comes to protecting workers, and to consider why austerity has become the dominant response to economic crises in Europe.
Lab 'views: In the first of a series of interviews with Lab affiliates, we asked Professor Olivier De Schutter, as he comes to the end of 6 years as the UN Special Rapporteur on the Right to Food, what the key concerns are that undermine the exercise of the right to food, how change has taken place, and where we might next put our research energies.
Read the Interview .

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/law/law-and-financial-markets-project:
The Law and Financial Markets Project unites LSE Law School faculty specialising in in the law and regulation of financial markets.
It provides a framework for co-operation with associated participants from outside academia to explore the interactions of law, regulation, financial markets and financial institutions, principally within the EU and the UK.
The LFMP organises and funds conferences and research projects, thus reaching out to society and the market by sharing the world-leading expertise of its members and associated participants.
Dr Philipp Paech
Professor Julia Black
Professor Niamh Moloney
Dr Jo Braithwaite
Ms Sarah Paterson
Mr Edmund Schuster
Visiting Professor Jonathan Fisher QC
Professor David Kershaw
Dr Eva Micheler
Visiting Professor Christos Hadjiemmanuil
Visiting Professor Leslie Kosmin QC
2020
In March 2020 the Law and Financial Markets Project will run a series of extra-curricular lectures for LLB and LLM students at LSE.
All lectures will be co-taught by Dr.
Philipp Paech (LSE) and each session will feature a different guest: Elisabeth Noble, (European Banking Auhtority); Nicola Sandler (Barclays); and Parma Bains (FCA).
3 March 2020   |    Room CLM 4.02   |    6pm - 8pm The financial market today and tomorrow Mr Parma Bains (Senior Policy Advisor, Financial Conduct Authority )
12 March 2020  |    Room CLM 5.02   |    6pm - 8pm Keeping pace with digital Ms Elisabeth Noble (Senior Policy Expert, European Banking Authority )
17 March 2020   |    Room CLM 4.02   |    6pm - 8pm Big Data and the social side of FinTech Ms Nicole Sandler (Head of Digital Policy, Barclays )
Places are limited and allocated on a first-come-first-served basis.
− Any form of private audio or video recording of the lectures or parts thereof is not permitted.
For full details of each lecture and biographies of the speakers, please click here.
This new conference series will run between March and November 2020.
Click here for further details about the series.
6 June 2017 4pm-6pm Unbundled commissions under MiFid II and their potential impact on U.S.
soft dollar arrangements
Click here for a full programme
Since 1975, investment advisers in the United States have been permitted to pay excess brokerage commission on securities transactions and then utilize those excess payments –commonly known as “soft dollars” — to purchase research services and thereby subsidize the investment advisers’ own operating costs.
Over the past four decades, the SEC has made fitful attempts to curtail the practice and enhance the transparency of soft dollar payments, but has been routinely thwarted by a financial services industry that profits from soft dollars and strives to keep the payments obscure and undiminished.
In the past few years, however, financial authorities in the EU, UK and Canada have taken a fresh look at excessive brokerage commissions under MiFID II and are moving towards regulatory reforms that force the unbundling of commission charges.
Speaker: Howell Jackson (Harvard) Commentators: John Armour (Oxford); Tim Tachi (TT International) Chair: Philipp Paech (LSE)
26 May 2017 9am-5pm
Blockchain financial assets and beyond: legal and regulatory perspectives
Click here for presentations and papers
Blockchain (or distributed ledger) technology and smart contracts may soon be used to hold and transfer financial assets, such as currency, securities and derivatives.
A consistent analysis of the new technology’s impact on the law and regulation underlying financial markets and on wider legal issues has yet to be undertaken.
Academia, regulators, lawmakers and the financial industry have to unite in this exercise and develop the axioms of a legal and regulatory framework that follows a universal conception, as the potential and the limits of the new technology are of universal concern.
This conference is conceived to kick-start global discussion.
Organiser: Philipp Paech (LSE Law)
Moderators: Martin Walker (Journalist, Finadium) Isabella Kaminska (Journalist, Financial Times)
Speakers: Michael Krimminger (Cleary Gottlieb) Marc Robert-Nicoud (Clearstream) Eva Micheler (LSE Law) Colin Platt (DPactum) Corinne Zellweger-Gutknecht (University of Zurich) Klaus Löber (European Central Bank) Lee Braine (Barclays) Philipp Paech (LSE Law) Hans Kuhn (University of Lucerne) Kevin D.
Werbach (University of Pennsylvania)
25 May 2017 All day event
LSE-Oxford law and finance conference
Organiser: Professor David Kershaw (LSE Law)
Click here for full programme
18 May 2017 2pm-5pm
International finance, party autonomy and public interest
Click here for the full programme
The rules governing financial markets are subject to the tensions emerging between a plethora of private and public interests.
Modern economies provide for party autonomy as the more efficient concept to govern the market.
Hence, in principle, private interest and contractual freedom are the rules’ organising principles.
However, various public interests limit contractual freedom and party autonomy.
They may come as mandatory rules that apply in insolvency proceedings, or as restrictions to the choice of law and of court, or they may present themselves in the form of regulation.
This workshop seeks to clarify the areas of the law governing the financial market that are subject to party autonomy or mandatory rules, respectively, pointing in particular to areas where a clear-cut answer cannot be given.
Chair: Prof Roy Good
Speakers: Philipp Paech (LSE) Stéphanie Francq (Louvain la neuve) Jan Kleinheisterkamp (LSE) Matthias Lehman (Bonn)
23 March 2017 6pm-7.30pm
Financial institutions and human tights: What is the Dutch Banking Sector Agreement on human rights, and should UK financial institutions follow suit?
Click here for invitation
This event is a unique chance to hear first-hand about the experience of the Dutch Banking Association in forging the Agreement and explore with Dutch and UK banks the Agreement's potential to effectively ensure the respect for human rights.
The event is targeted at bankers, representatives of financial institutions and financial lawyers in the UK.
It is also useful for academics and students interested in business and human rights and finance and banking law and policy.
Speakers: Sharon van Ede (Sustainability Advisor, Dutch Banking Association); Arnaud Cohen Stuart (Head of Business Ethics, ING); Simon Connell (Director, Sustainability, Standard Chartered)
22 March 2017 5.30pm-7pm
Short termism in financial markets: Fact and frenzy
Speaker: Professor Mark Roe (David Berg Professor of Corporate Law, Harvard Law School)
In his lecture, Professor Mark Roe will challenge some of the recent claims made about the relationship between market short termism and short-termism in the boardroom.
In particular, he will explore the preconditions for market short termism to be transmitted into the boardroom.
For attendees interested in exploring Professor Roe’s publication on this issue, please see: https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers2.cfm?abstract_id=2239132>
14 March 2017 12pm - 5.30pm
Corporate law in historical perspective
10 January 2017 6.30pm - 8pm
Financial regulation: Back to the future?
Click here for full details
The global financial crisis caused massive unemployment, destroyed trillions in wealth, and triggered an international effort to strengthen the regulation of financial markets and institutions.
Will the Brexit referendum and the 2016 U.S.
election bring fundamental changes to that path?
The lecture will be given by Timothy G.
Massad who has been on the front lines of the U.S.
effort to combat the crisis and reform the international financial regulatory system, currently as Chairman of the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission and formerly as Assistant Secretary for Financial Stability at the U.S.
Treasury.
Speaker: Timothy G.
Massad (Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission)
Chair: Dr Eva Micheler (SRC and LSE Law)
10 June 2016 8.50am-5.30pm
Blockchain and financial markets technology: Perspectives from law, finance and computer science
Blockchain technology was first invented to facilitate Bitcoin.
A blockchain is an electronic record.
Similar to a land register it contains all transactions that are entered into between market participants.
There is, however, no central authority or other intermediary.
The blockchain is updated on the basis of a consensus of the majority of the participants in the system.
Once entered the information cannot be erased.
A blockchain thus creates a certain and verifiable digital record.
Organisers: Eva Micheler (Law and Financial Markets Project and Systemic Risk Centre, LSE) and Jon Danielsson (Systemic Risk Centre, LSE)
17 November 2015 4pm-6pm The Lloyd's crisis and its resolution: Legal aspects
Lloyd’s of London is a long-revered British Institution, dating from the 17th century and one the world’s largest insurance markets.
It came very close to collapsing as a result of large-scale losses suffered in the 1980s and 1990s.
Many lessons are to be learnt from the crisis experienced by Lloyd’s, both in economic and legal terms, as well as from Lloyd’s remarkable recovery and transformation, which demonstrates the institution’s resilience.
This event aims to shed light on the legal aspects of the Lloyd’s Crisis and to tease out the lessons learnt.
Speakers:
Andrew Duguid  (Author of On the Brink, How a Crisis Transformed Lloyd's of London, Palgrave 2014.
Formerly, advisor to the Council of Lloyd’s)
Graham Nicholson (Former Chief Legal Advisor, Bank of England; previously with Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer (advising Lloyd’s, in particular regarding Equitas))
Adam Ridley (Member of the Council of Lloyd’s and of the Lloyd’s Regulatory Board from 1997 to 1999, subsequently Chair of the independent "Names' Committee" set up by Lloyd's and Chair until 2014 of the Trustees of Equitas.)
Julian Burling (Barrister, Serle Court; Counsel to Lloyd’s 1995 to 2010.
Author of Lloyd’s: Law and Practice.
Informa 2013.
)
Chair: Charles Goodhart (LSE)
Organisers: Miriam Goldby and Rosa Lastra (Insurance Law Institute, Centre for Commercial Law Studies, QMUL); Eva Micheler (Systemic Risk Centre and Law and Financial Markets Project, LSE)
20 May 2015 5.30pm-7.30pm
Market manipulation, HFT and algorithmic trading
See flyer for full details
Speaker: Jamie Symington (Director of Enforcement, Financial Conduct Authority)
12 March 2015 6.30pm-8pm
Law, finance and the abyss
Chair: Eva Micheler - Associate Professor (Reader) in Law at LSE
Speakers: Katharina Pistor  (Michael I.
Sovern Professor of Law, Columbia Law School);  Julia Black (Professor of Law and Pro-Director for Research, LSE);  Jon Danielson (Director Systemic Risk Centre, Reader in Finance); Charles Goodhart (Emeritus Professor, LSE)
In financial markets law and finance are intrinsically connected.
Law underpins markets.
Finance applies the tools provided for by the law but also continuously tests the boundaries set by law.
When markets collapse, however, legal rules are pushed into the background and other forces take over determining the way in which actors respond to systemic events.
25 February 2015 5pm-8pm
Responses to the G-20 derivatives reform agenda beyond Dodd-Frank and EMIR
Speaker: David Murphy ((Senior Policy Adviser, The Bank of England) LSE Convenor: Dr Jo Braithwaite (LSE Law) Information file [Moodle]
28 January 2015 6pm-7:30 pm
Going beyond the homo economicus in executive incentives
Speaker: Simon C.Y.
Wong (Northwestern University & LSE) FT article file [Moodle]
13 January 2015 6pm - 7:30 pm
Active shareholders and European takeover regulation
Speaker: Prof Martin Winner (Vienna University of Economics and Business & Austrian Takeover Commission)
Chair: Edmund-Philipp Schuster
19 November 2014 6pm-7:30 pm
Shareholder empowerment and bank bailouts
Speakers: Prof David Kershaw; Edmund-Philipp Schuster Information file [Moodle]
5 November 2014 6pm-7:30 pm
Are EU banks safe?
Speaker: Dr Roel Theissen Information file [Moodle]
22 October 2014 6pm-7.30pm
Fit for purpose?
Does UK company law contribute to short termism in UK companies?
Chair: Sir Geoffrey Owen (LSE)
Speakers: Ian Gilham (Chairman, Horizon Discovery Plc); Professor David Kershaw (LSE); William Underhill (Partner at Slaughter & May, London)
Whether or not managers of UK companies are subject to short term pressures is one of the most important current policy debates.
The mechanisms through which institutional investors invest in capital markets are thought to be subject to several pressures to invest with the short rather than the long term in mind.
The remuneration structures and reporting requirement of fund managers provide one such example of such pressures.
However as Professor Roe of the Harvard Law School has argued, in order for capital market short termism to be translated into business short termism there needs to be a transmission mechanism to transfer such pressures into the board room.
16 October 2014 9.30am-5.30pm
Perspectives on systemic risk
Organisers: Jon Danielsson (SRC) and Eva Micheler (Department of Law, LSE) Systemic financial risk can be caused by many factors such as: financial decisions, legal and accounting rules, and politics.
While all of these factors can on their own trigger systemic events, it is the interaction between them which is especially dangerous because it creates new avenues for vicious feedback loops.
Unfortunately, these channels for systemic risk are usually studied within disciplinary silos, giving us a rather fragmented understanding of how systemic risk is created.
The aim of the conference is to bring together speakers from accounting, economics, finance, law and political science to break down these silos and present a more complete analysis of the nature of systemic risk
14 October 2014 6pm-7:30 pm
Minilateralism: How trade alliances, soft law and financial engineering are redefining economic statecraft
Speaker: Prof Chris Brummer (Georgetown) Chair: Prof Niamh Moloney Information file [Moodle]
24 March 2014
Intermediated securities and investor rights
On 24 March 2014, Dr.
Eva Micheler organised a conference entitled 'Intermediated Securities and Investor Rights'.
The event was funded by the Law and Financial Markets Project and the Systemic Risk Centre.
The aim of the conference was to determine whether the law is able to ensure that securities continue to be negotiable.
The main question was whether it is possible to conclude that holding and lending chains have become too complex and inter-connected that investors are systemically compromised in their ability to exercise rights against the issuers.
The event was oversubscribed and attended by regulators, practitioners as well as academics.
The contributions made by participants showed that the event raised questions of fundamental importance to the current debate on stewardship, investor rights, corporate governance and also on systemic risk in financial markets.
It added a new perspective on both the discussion on intermediated securities and the discussion on stewardship and corporate governance.
The program, a conference report and selected slides can be found here:
Programme & Conference Report
David Herzell ; Eva Micheler ; Klaus Loeber ; Pablo Iglesias-Rodriguez
Pierre Beck ; John Kay ; Sarah Paterson
22 January 2014 6.00-7.30pm Modern issues in international commercial law: Can we hold a legal dialogue across the Channel?
Speaker: Jean-François Riffard (University of Auvergne, School of Law) Chair: Eva Micheler (LSE, Law Department)
11 December 2013 5pm-6.30pm International legal risks for banks and corporates Philip Wood, QC (Hon.) Special Global Counsel, Allen & Overy LLP Chair: Professor David Kershaw (LSE, Department of Law)
5 December 2013 6pm-7.30pm
The role of the sharia scholar in Islamic Finance
Details of the Islamic Finance series
Speaker: Sheikh Nizam Yaquby
20 November 2013 6pm-7.30pm
One step ahead: Private equity and hedge funds after the global financial crisis
Speaker: Timothy Spangler, Partner (Kaye Scholer) and Adjunct Professor (UCLA)
As the recession stutters onwards systemic and structural causes for the financial crash continue to dominate international news and debate.
Despite public interest, alternative investment vehicles such as private equity and hedge funds remain elusive.
Both have always had a unique position in the market, designed as they are to function outside of the rules that govern other financial organizations.
But what is it that they do and - significantly - how is it that they have prospered since the 2008 meltdown despite the introduction of new regulatory regimes?
, Timothy Spangler, author of the award-winning book ‘One Step Ahead’, explores how the structures of alternative investment funds enable them to adapt and react to global financial conditions.
The seminar focus ranges from small start-ups to the titans of the industry.
It explores how private equity and hedge funds operate, drive economic growth, and have become essential vehicles for investment for both public and private sectors the world over.
Chair: Professor Julia Black (LSE, Department of Law)
13 November 2013 6pm-7.30pm
The ubiquitous role of financial collateral
Speaker: David Murphy (Rivast consulting, formerly ISDA)
Post crisis financial reforms have handed a central role to collateral.
It is required for many bilateral derivatives transactions; it is a central risk mitigant in central clearing; and it will be required for many intragroup exposures as local capital and liquidity requirements are imposed.
At the same time, unsecured interbank credit is declining importance, with many banks instead relying on collateralised central bank funding.
It is therefore timely to investigate the role of collateral in the financial system, the legal infrastructure which supports its use, and the dynamics of collateralised transactions.
In this context the phenomenon of procyclicality naturally arises.
Thus while supervisors have determined that in the large there is enough high quality collateral available, short term increases in collateral requirements can be de-stabilising.
We examine this issue, highlighting the delicate balance between collateral-as-credit-risk-mitigant and collateral-as-liquidity-risk-creator.
Chair: Dr Jo Braithwaite (LSE, Department of Law)
Ethics, interest and finance
Speaker: Ann Pettifor (Director of Policy Research in Macroeconomics, PRIME)
6 November 2013 6pm-7.30pm
Islamic Finance and derivatives
Speaker: Habib Motani (Partner, Clifford Chance)
30 October 2013 6pm-7.30pm
Intellectual property financing: the work of UNCITRAL
Speaker: Spyridon Bazinas (Senior Legal Officer, UNCITRAL Secretariat)
Economic development increasingly depends on innovative ideas that often become the subject of intellectual property rights.
Yet, more often than not, while there is no sufficient funding to create or develop intellectual property, using intellectual property as collateral for credit is from difficult to impossible.
The main reason is the fact that intellectual property law is not sufficiently coordinated with secured financing law.
Matters become even more complex when a transaction involves a portfolio of intellectual property rights protected under the laws of several countries and the question of applicable law arises, or when a licensor or licensee of intellectual property becomes insolvent.
The lecture will examine how the UNCITRAL Legislative Guide on Secured Transactions: Supplement on Security Interests in Intellectual Property (2010) addresses all these issues.
More specifically, the lecture will examine the interaction of secured financing and intellectual property law, types of intellectual property financing practices, the creation, registration/perfection, priority and enforcement of a security interest in intellectual property, acquisition financing with respect to intellectual property, law applicable to a security interest in intellectual property and the impact of insolvency of a licensor or licensee of intellectual property.
Chair : Professor Michael Bridge (LSE, Department of Law)
30 October2013 6pm-7.30pm
Debt financing and sukuk
Speaker : Roger Wedderburn-Day (Partner, Allen & Overy)
28 October 2013 6pm-7pm Introduction to Islamic Finance: Concepts and structures
Speaker: Bi Farmida (Partner, Norton Rose Fulbright)
10 October 2013
Law after Lehmans
To mark the fifth anniversary of the collapse of the Lehman Brothers group, the LSE Department of Law and the LSE Law and Financial Markets Project is organising a half-day workshop, ‘Law after Lehmans’.
...
The objective of the event is to consider the impact of Lehmans-related cases on the English law.
Speakers will be attending from, inter alia, PWC, City law firms, the Bar, LSE and the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge.
It is widely acknowledged that the collapse of the Lehman Brothers group was one of the most significant events in the global financial crisis.
In the short-term, the group's collapse brought the world’s financial system to the brink of disaster.
In the longer-term, these events have had an obvious and profound effect on worldwide programmes of financial regulatory reform.
This spike of new regulation has been extensively debated by practitioners and academics alike.
The cumulative effects of the Lehmans-related cases have, however, received comparatively little attention, and it is this imbalance that the workshop aims to redress.
The cases will be considered in terms of their impact on different elements of English law, namely, property rights, contractual interpretation and insolvency law.
related publication: Jo Braithwaite, 'Law after Lehmans' LSE Law Society and Economy Working Paper Series 11/2014
9 October 2013 6pm-7.30pm
The history and evolution of Islamic Finance
Speaker: Iqbal Khan (CEO, Fajr Capital)
24 April 2013
The global financial crisis: The case for a criminal response
Colloquium organised by Jonathan Fisher QC with David Greene QC.
The paper summarising the discussions and exploring the case for a stronger criminal response by UK law enforcement authorities to the global financial crisis is available here.
LLM : Banking Law and Financial Regulation
LLM : Corporate Law and Securities Law
Short Course on Financial Services and Markets Regulation
Law Summer School : LL206: International Financial Law
Law Summer School : LL135: Introduction to Corporate Law and Governance
Law Summer School : LL207: International Financial Regulation
Law Summer School : LL301: European Company Law
Gerner-Beuerle, Carsten (2017) Law and finance in emerging economies: Germany and Britain 1800-1913.
The Modern Law Review, 80 (2).
pp.
263-298
Moloney, Niamh (2017) EU financial governance and transparency regulation: a test for the effectiveness of post-crisis administrative governance.
In: Busch, Danny and Ferrarini, Guido, (eds.) Regulation of the EU Financial Markets: MiFID II and MiFIR.
Oxford University Press, Oxford, UK.
Murphy, David and Braithwaite, Jo (2017) Central counterparties (CCPs) and the law of default management.
Journal of Corporate Law Studies
Moloney, Niamh (2017) The European Union in international financial governance.
RSF: Russell Sage Foundation Journal of the Social Sciences, 3 (1).
138-152
Black, Julia (2017) ‘Says who?’ liquid authority and interpretive control in transnational regulatory regimes.
International Theory  (In Press)
Moloney, Niamh (2017) EU financial governance and Brexit: institutional change or business as usual?
European Law Review, 42 (1) (In Press)
Paterson, Sarah (2017) Debt restructuring and notions of fairness.
The Modern Law Review .
(In Press)
Gerner-Beuerle, Carsten (2016) Diffusion of regulatory innovations: the case of corporate governance codes.
Journal of Institutional Economics .
1-33
Micheler, Eva (2016) Building a capital markets union – improving the market infrastructure.
European Business Organization Law Review (EBOR), 17 (4).
481-495
Micheler, Eva and von der Heyde, Luke (2016) Holding, clearing and settling securities through blockchain/distributed ledger technology: creating an efficient system by empowering investors.
Journal of International Banking & Financial Law, 31 (11).
11 JIBFL 631.
Paterson, Sarah (2016) The paradox of alignment: agency problems and debt restructuring.
European Business Organization Law Review, 17 (4).
497-521.
ISSN 1566-7529
Moloney, Niamh (2016) International financial governance, the EU, and Brexit: the ‘agencification’ of EU financial governance and the implications.
451-480.
Baldwin, Robert and Black, Julia (2016) Driving priorities in risk-based regulation: what’s the problem?
Journal of Law and Society, 43 (4).
565-595.
Braithwaite, Jo (2016) The dilemma of client clearing in the OTC derivatives markets.
European Business Organization Law Review, 17 (3).
355-378.
Bridge, Michael G.
(2016) Consequences of avoidance of the contract under the CISG.
In: UNIDROIT, (corp.
ed.) Eppur Si Muove: The Age of Uniform Law: Essays in Honour of Michael Joachim Bonell to Celebrate His 70th Birthday.
UNIDROIT, Rome, Italy, pp.
1717-1733
Moloney, Niamh (2016) The 2013 Capital Requirements Directive IV and Capital Requirements Regulation: implications and institutional effects.
Zeitschrift für öffentliches Recht, 71 (3).
385-423
Moloney, Niamh (2016) Institutional governance and capital markets union: incrementalism or a ‘big bang’?
European Company and Financial Law Review, 13 (2).
376-423.
Moloney, Niamh (2016) Capital markets union: "ever closer union" for the EU financial system.
European Law Review, 41 (3).
307-337
Beale, Hugh, Gullifer, Louise and Paterson, Sarah (2016) A case for interfering with freedom of contract?
An empirically-informed study of bans of assignment.
Journal of Business Law, 3 .
203-230
Kershaw, David (2016) Principles of takeover regulation.
Ferreira, Daniel, Kershaw, David, Kirchmaier, Tom and Schuster, Edmund (2016) Measuring management insulation from shareholder pressure.
LSE Law, Society and Economy Working Paper Series, Working Paper No.
01/2016.
London School of Economics and Political Science, Department of Law, London, UK.
Hadjiemmanuil, Christos (2016) Bank resolution financing in the banking union.
In: Binder, Jens-Hinrich and Singh, Dalvinder, (eds.) Bank Resolution: The European Regime.
Paech, Philipp (2016) The value of financial market insolvency safe harbours.
Oxford Journal of Legal Studies .
1-30
Moloney, Niamh (2016) Financial services, the EU, and Brexit: an uncertain future for the city?
German Law Journal, 17 .
75-82.
Braithwaite, Jo (2016) The origins and implications of contractual estoppel.
Law Quarterly Review, 132 .
120-147
(2016) The nature of assignment and non-assignment clauses.
Law Quarterly Review, 2016 (1)
Braithwaite, Jo and Murphy, David (2016) Got to be certain: the legal framework for CCP default management processes.
Financial Stability Papers series, Bank of England, London, UK.
Bridge, Michael (2016) Remedies and damages.
In: DiMatteo, Larry A., Janssen, André , Magnus , Ulrich and Schulze, Reiner, (eds.) International Sales Law: Contract, Principles & Practice.
Nomos Verlagsgesellschaf / Verlag C.H.BECK oHG / Hart Publishing, Baden-Baden, Germany, pp.
529-586.
(2016) Good faith, the common law and the CISG.
Uniform Law Review .
(2016) Markets and damages in sale of goods cases.
Law Quarterly Review .
(2016) Risk of loss.
In: DiMatteo, Larry A., Janssen, André, Magnus, Ulrich and Schulze, Reiner, (eds.) International Sales Law: Contract, Principles & Practice.
635-664.
Donaldson, Jason, Roderick and Micheler, Eva (2016) Resaleable debt and systemic risk.
Journal of Financial Economics .
Moloney, Niamh (2016) Conduct rules and investor protection: the evolution of the EU’s approach.
In: Casper, M., Klöhn, L.
and Schmies, C., (eds.) Festschrift für Johannes Köndgen.
RWS Verlag, Köln, Germany.
Paech, Philipp (2016) Securities, intermediation and the blockchain: an inevitable choice between liquidity and legal certainty?
Uniform Law Review - Revue de droit uniforme .
Paterson, Sarah (2015) Rethinking corporate bankruptcy theory in the twenty-first century.
Hadjiemmanuil, Christos (2015) Bank stakeholders’ mandatory contribution to resolution financing: principle and ambiguities of bail-in.
In: ECB Legal Conference 2015: From Monetary Union to Banking Union, on the Way to Capital Markets Union, New Opportunities for European Integration.
European Central Bank, Frankfurt am Main, Germany, pp.
225-248.
Micheler, Eva (2015) Custody chains and asset values: why crypto-securities are worth contemplating.
Cambridge Law Journal, 73 (3).
505-533.
Hadjiemmanuil, Christos (2015) The banking union and its implications for private law: a comment.
EUI Working Paper RSCAS, 74.
European University Institute (EUI), Florence, Italy.
Bridge, Michael (2015) Insolvency.
In: Burrows, Andrew, (ed.) Principles of English Commercial Law.
Oxford University Press, Oxford, UK, pp.
353-419.
Who Should prosecute fraud, corruption and financial markets crime?
In this briefing, Jonathan Fisher QC argues that City fraud, financial markets offences and corruption should be investigated and prosecuted by a single enforcement authority instead of the multiplicity of agencies currently involved.
The recent establishment of the Economic Crime Command at the National Crime Agency has muddied the waters further.
It is high time for the Government to deliver on its Coalition Agreement commitment by allowing the Serious Fraud Office to mutate into an enlarged new economic crime-busting agency, leaving the Financial Conduct Authority to concentrate on the imposition of civil penalties for regulatory and compliance breaches which do not demand a criminal response.
Philipp Paech, Shadow banking – legal issues regarding collateral and insolvency law Briefing for the European Parliament’s ECON Committee (2013)
In its first part, the paper addresses issues relating to close-out netting and bank insolvency.
In many financial markets repurchase agreements (repos) and securities lending agreements benefit from special insolvency treatment which - broadly speaking - consists of an exemption from a number of insolvency law mechanisms.
There was some discussion triggered by the Financial Stability Board’s Recommendation 13 on repos and securities lending, aiming at changes of the special insolvency treatment of these transactions.
However, this analysis submits that no changes should be made in this regard.
Instead, the regulators should be given the power to temporarily stay close-out netting, as in bank resolution proceedings.
At the same time, regulatory haircuts to collateral assets (FSB Recommendations 6 and 7) may buffer systemic consequences but are unable to act as a circuit breaker.
In its second part, the paper addresses legal uncertainty in relation to proprietary interests in collateral securities.
Repo and securities lending collateral assets face increased enforcement difficulties in cross-border settings, stemming from different national rules regarding good-faith acquisition and close-out netting.
Haircuts, as proposed by some commentators, are not an appropriate solution.
Instead, only harmonisation of securities law and of the relevant insolvency rules can guarantee a consistent cross-border framework.
Criminalising bank managers (Julia Black and David Kershaw, Professors of Law, LSE) .
This Policy Briefing evaluates the Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards recommendation to criminalise the reckless behaviour of senior bank managers.
The Commission on Banking Standards Report and Bank Incentives: A missed opportunity (Julia Black and David Kershaw, Professors of Law, LSE)
This Policy Briefing asks whether the Commission has missed an opportunity to address the skewed incentives for bank managers created by the UK’s system of corporate law and governance.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/law/legal-and-political-theory-forum:
The Legal & Political Theory Forum was set up in September 2007 in order to provide an umbrella for seminars and colloquia on topics of common interest to scholars and graduate students working in various disciplinary areas, but particularly in the fields of politics and law.
The Forum holds a series of seminars during term-time, at which papers are presented by academics who are based either at LSE or more commonly elsewhere.
The Forum has an excellent track record for holding international conferences.
In addition to our regular seminars, our practice has been to hold a major event each Spring.
Themes have included Alan Brudner’s constitutional theory (which resulted in a special issue of the Canadian Journal of Law & Jurisprudence), ‘The Rule of Law and Political Emergencies’, ‘Hobbes and the Law’ (which led to an edited volume of essays from Cambridge University Press), David Hume, Adam Smith, and ‘Hayek, Oakeshott and Schmitt on Law, Liberty and State’ (which also produced an edited volume for CUP).
Scholars who have presented a paper at the Forum include: Brian Barry, Nehal Bhuta, Alan Brudner, Clare Chambers, Costas Douzinas, David Dyzenhaus, Katrin Flikschuh, Fonna Forman, Frank Furedi, Ross Harrison, Duncan Kelly, Nico Krisch, Martin Krygier, Jacob Levy, John McCormick, David Miller, Jan-Werner Müller, Liam Murphy, Sankar Muthu, Gerald Postema, Alice Ristroph, John Tomasi, Adrian Vermeule, Lars Vinx, Jeremy Waldron, Leif Wenar and Lea Ypi.
Our policy is to make Forum events as inclusive as possible.
All Forum events are open to staff and students from all departments and all academic institutions.
The Forum is run by Thomas Poole (LSE Law School).
All events are in the Moot Court Room (7th floor, CKK Building), unless otherwise stated.
Wed 2 Oct 2024  |  5-7pm ‘Trust, Courts and Social Rights’ David Vitale  (Warwick)
Wed 16 Oct 2024  |  5-7pm ‘The King's Plunder, the King's Bodies: the British Empire and Modern Legal Order’ Rahul Govind  (Delhi)
Wed 6 Nov 2024  |  5-7pm ‘The Reasonable Person: A Legal Biography’ Valentin Jeutner  (Lund)
Tues 21 Jan 2025  |  5-7pm 'Institution-Dependent Norms: Exploring the Distinctive Value of Constitutional and Statutory Rights' Alon Harel (Jerusalem)
Weds 12 Feb 2025  |  5-7pm 'The Travel of Functionalism: China 1930-1999' Ting Xu (Essex)
Weds 19 Feb 2025  |  5:30-7pm 'The Constitution and the Rabble' Alexander Somek (Vienna)
Weds 26 Mar 2025   |  5-7pm 'Political Parties and State Power' Leah Trueblood (Oxford)
Thomas Poole (Law)
Lea Ypi (LSE Government)

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/law/legal-biography-project:
Legal biographies and autobiographies are a rich and important source of information about the legal system, the evolution of case law and statute and legal cultures more generally.
Yet, despite a growing interest over the last fifty years in the information such studies contain, they have been much neglected in the study of law.
The Legal Biography Project, convened by LSE Law School, seeks to remedy this omission by providing a focus in Britain for biographical research in law.
The aim of the project is to create a rich foundation for scholarship on legal history, legal biography and the history of the legal profession.
Drawing on published works, official records, personal letters, oral histories, art work and film we aim to facilitate a broader discussion than has taken place to date about ideas of lawyering, judgecraft, judicial identity, judicial diversity and the changes which have occurred to these notions over time.
The pursuit of this goal has two main aspects.
First, the Project aims to promote scholarship in the field through a number of activities, including workshops and public lectures , and the establishment of a network of scholars working in related fields in both other departments at LSE and beyond;
Second, the Project aims to raise funds to develop the collection of legal biographies that it received through the generous bequest of an anonymous donor in 2011.
Full details about the collection, and a catalogue to enable research access, will be uploaded to this website in late November 2011.
The project is managed by Sir Ross Cranston FBA with the support of an advisory board of external experts.
The Legal Biographies Project is very pleased to announce the posting on its website of seven substantial video interviews with senior lawyers involved in some of the most profound constitutional changes affecting the judiciary in the UK for many years.
The interviews were conducted by the legal journalist Joshua Rozenberg for the Constitution Unit of University College.
We are very pleased to have worked in partnership with the Constitution Unit in finding the videos a permanent home.
We believe that these interviews will be an invaluable resource for researchers, students and the press for some years to come
Click here to browse the video interviews.
The Legal Biographies Book Collection is available for inspection by appointment: please email law.room.bookings@lse.ac.uk to arrange a time.
Please note that this is a reference collection only, and all researchers will be required to provide appropriate identification, and to fill out a form, in order to access the Collection.
Access to photocopying services can be arranged through Reception.
Click here to browse the catalogue of books in the Legal Biographies Book Collection.
Eminent Scholars Archive (University of Cambridge) www.squire.law.cam.ac.uk/eminent_scholars/
First 100 Years www.first100years.org.uk
'Exploring the Social World of Crown Court clerks from the 1970s onwards', a research collaboration between the Legal Biography Project and National Life Stories (British Library) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wrDPaf5JZG8
South Asian Legal History Resources website (in particular South Asians at the Inns) hosted.law.wisc.edu/wordpress/sharafi/
Women Trailblazer Project http://www.americanbar.org/groups/senior_lawyers/resources/women_trailblazers ...
Dr Victoria Barnes
Professor Hugh Collins FBA
Sir Ross Cranston FBA (chair)
Professor Neil Duxbury
Sir David Foxton
Professor Michael Lobban FBA
Professor Nicola Lacey FBA

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/sociology/human-rights:
LSE Human Rights is a transdisciplinary hub for cutting-edge, critical research, teaching and scholarship on human rights.
It is based within the Department of Sociology.
Join the global debate by attending LSE's public events
Find your way around LSE
Watch videos on cutting edge research and listen to LSE podcasts
Follow us on Instagram
Enquiries +44 20 7955 6793
Communications, Events and Media enquiries: sociology.media@lse.ac.uk
Research enquiries: sociology.Research@lse.ac.uk
MSc study enquiries: sociology.msc@lse.ac.uk
PhD study enquiries: sociology.phd@lse.ac.uk
Department of Sociology, London School of Economics and Political Science, Houghton Street, London, WC2A 2AE

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/geography-and-environment/research/lse-london:
Urban research group specialising in policy-focused research on housing, urban and economic issues in London, elsewhere in Britain, and abroad.
Get in touch with us at
lselondon@lse.ac.uk
LSE London, Room POR 3.01, Portsmouth Street, Houghton Street, WC2A 2AE, London (UK)
See our latest news and updates

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/LSEE-Research-on-South-Eastern-Europe:
Through its busy agenda of public events, academic collaborations and publications, LSEE provides a significant platform for high quality, independent research, facilitating public dialogue and the dissemination of scientific knowledge on the SEE region.
General Enquiries: +44 (0) 20 7107 5309
General Enquiries: Ei.lsee@lse.ac.uk
LSEE - Research on South Eastern Europe, Central Building, European Institute, LSE, Houghton Street, London, WC2A 2AE
Keep up to date with LSEE activities
South East Europe at LSE Blog
Balkan Insight - news & views from the Balkans

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/lse-health/research/mtrg:
Dr Panos Kanavos, Programme Director, MTRG
We focus on interdisciplinary and comparative research with emphasis on medical technologies and are committed to bridging research with policy.
We develop new tools, methods and frameworks enabling us to conduct multi-disciplinary research at global level, analyse complex health care problems and unlock insights that inform policy-making.
We work with the broader stakeholder community to conduct research, offer strategic advice, and undertake capacity-building and executive training in our areas of expertise.
Research Areas
Our research on the economics of medical technologies relates to the impact of demand- and supply-side regulation on innovation and technology development, competition, uptake and diffusion.
Our focus includes regulatory approval pathways, health technology assessment and its determinants, pricing models & strategic pricing of new technologies, financing methods (e.g.
risk-sharing agreements, special funding schemes, innovative payment models), and strategic procurement.
Our work covers the entire life-cycle of medical technologies and captures the dynamics of niche therapies, including personalised treatments, orphan medicines, cell & gene therapies and co-dependent technologies.
Inappropriate use of medical technologies or use of low-quality medical technologies can be inefficient and potentially harmful to patients.
It is critical that the use of medical technologies is evidence-based and appropriate.
Our research covers prescribing policy; rational drug use; appropriate use of medications, and their potential impact on health care and outcomes in specific disease areas or at country level; analysis of the socioeconomic impact of disability and disease and associated healthcare related policy decisions.
Patient access to medical technologies can vary considerably within and across healthcare systems.
Our research on access to medical technologies relates to the impact of health reforms and financing approaches on the availability and affordability of medical technologies.
Our research focus includes the generation of fiscal space in health care financing, new financing models (e.g.
instalment payments or subscription models for high-cost therapies), virtual health care, population approaches to healthcare, and the development & application of value frameworks to multi-criteria resource allocation problems.
We conduct comprehensive and detailed policy evaluation and impact assessments of macro-level policies related to medical technologies, such as external referencing pricing, health technology assessment (HTA), rate of return regulation, generic policy effectiveness, approaches to funding orphan medicinal products and cell & gene therapies.
Our work assesses the impact of different policies and tools in terms of both effectiveness and uptake and use of medical technologies.
We conduct impact assessments through a ‘health systems’ lens and link this to key health policy objectives (e.g.
macro-economic and micro-economic efficiency, equity, responsiveness and choice), industrial policy considerations and the broader socio-economic impact of new medical technologies.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/media-and-communications/polis:
Polis is LSE's media think-tank, based in the Department of Media and Communications and aimed at working journalists, people in public life and students in the UK and around the world.
Polis is the place where journalists and the wider world can examine and discuss the media and its impact on society.
Polis has a dual mission to:
To this end, Polis' commitment is two-fold.
It is committed to promoting open and substantial dialogue on the changing structures, policies and practices of journalism, inviting diverse stakeholders to reflect on the dilemmas that journalism faces today.
At the same time, Polis is committed to enabling high quality, interdisciplinary research on the emerging challenges posed by formal networks and informal trajectories of news production and circulation.
This is how the world is made available to us as a political, cultural and ethical reality.
Polis is thus a hub of people and ideas which regards journalism not simply as a practical skill, but also as a historical-political practice to be situated within broader changes in public life.
It is also a theoretical project to be approached in the light of social and cultural theory and political philosophy.
In bridging the applied with the theoretical, Polis is uniquely positioned to engage with journalism at once as a set of contemporary challenges, around topical issues of professional sustainability, impartiality or democratic transparency, and as a set of long-standing ethical and philosophical questions about the very nature of technology, public communication and social change.
Regular guest speakers, the annual Polis conference, research studies and published reports ensure current and lively debates around the most topical issues in media and journalism.
You can also check out Polis on Facebook , Twitter , Instagram , and on our blog for the most current Polis updates.
Prof Charlie Beckett Polis Director
Prof Charlie Beckett is the director of Polis.
He has 20 years of experience with LWT, BBC and ITN's Channel 4 News.
He broadcasts and writes regularly on media and political affairs and is the author of SuperMedia: Saving Journalism So It Can Save The World (Blackwell, 2008) and more recently, 'WikiLeaks: News In The Networked Era' (Polity, 2012).
He teaches at the LSE.
He is also a trustee of the European Journalism Centre.
Joy London Polis Manager
Joy manages the day-to-day running of Polis, overseeing Polis social media and editing Polis blog postings and research reports.
September 2023
In this second JournalismAI global survey, more than 120 editors, journalists, technologies and mediamakers from 105 small and large newsrooms across 46 countries share their learnings on the use of AI and genAI.
The report addresses the quality and sustainability of journalism.
Read the report
November 2019
The JournalismAI report is based on a survey of 71 news organisations in 32 different countries regarding artificial intelligence and associated technologies.
A wide range of journalists working with AI answered questions about their understanding of AI, how it was used in their newsrooms, and their views on the wider potential and risks for the news industry.
November 2018
The LSE Truth, Trust and Technology (T3) Commission deals with the crisis in public information.
We have been working with experts, practitioners and the public to identify structural causes of media misinformation and set out a new framework for strategic policy in our report.
Funded by the LSE Knowledge Exchange & Impact Fund.
Visit website here
October 2018
Mattias Erkkilä , managing editor at Svenska Yle , part of Finland’s public service broadcaster Yle looked at how traditional media companies, public and commercial, could benefit from blockchain and communicate this insight to media professionals not familiar with blockchain.
Polis/Journalistfonden Fellowship
June 2018
Swedish journalist Carina Tenor on the state of the UK Hyperlocal News sector, including some comparisons with models in Sweden.
In partnership with Journalistfonden .
Download the full report here
Email to sign up for the Polis newsletter: polis@lse.ac.uk
Tel: +44 (0)20 7107 5176
Email: polis@lse.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/international-development/research/population-investigation-committee:
The Population Investigation Committee, a small independent research group, was founded in 1936 and since World War II has been housed at LSE.
PIC publishes Population Studies , a journal of demography.
It also offers scholarships to students following a one year masters course with a high demographic content and supports the British Society for Population Studies.
The first English language journal concerned exclusively with demography, Population Studies has been produced continuously by the Population Investigation Committee (PIC) since 1947.
The journal is published and distributed on behalf of the PIC by Routledge Journals/Taylor and Francis Ltd.
The editors retain complete editorial control.
Read more about it .
The Population Investigation Committee funds a minimum of two Masters studentships each year.
Read more about it.
In 2011, the PIC celebrated its 75th anniversary, having held its inaugural meeting on June 15 1936.
February 2011 marked the completion of the PIC archiving project, when the historical records of the PIC became available at the Wellcome Library.
To mark the completion of the project, the PIC held a half-day Symposium at the Wellcome Collection Conference Centre on the afternoon of Friday 18 February.
General Secretary Helen Spriggs Population Investigation Committee POR.2.01, LSE Houghton Street, London WC2A 2AE
Tel: +44 (0) 20 7955 7666 Email: pic[at]lse.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/south-asia-centre:
Unravelling South Asia — Afghanistan, Bhutan, Bangladesh, India, Maldives, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka — to the World.
020 7107 5330
southasiacentre@lse.ac.uk
South Asia Centre, 9-10 Sheffield Street, Floor 2, London, WC2A 2AP
ADDRESS FOR POST, South Asia Centre, London School of Economics and Political Science, Houghton Street, WC2A 2AE

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/social-policy/research/Research-clusters/WISPPRH:
The Women in Social and Public Policy Research Hub (WISPPRH) at the LSE Department of Social Policy informs social and public policies that improve women’s outcomes and reduce inequalities.
We bring together scholars carrying out research on the causes and consequences of gender inequality in education, labour markets and the family.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/business/corporate-engagement:
We work with companies of all sizes from SMEs to multi-nationals, across all sectors to create mutually beneficial partnerships.
We connect ideas with LSE’s expertise and ambitions in research, public engagement, and our global student community.
We work to deliver a holistic experience, designing bespoke partnerships that have the potential to mutually transform collective interests.
We support partnerships across a broad range of areas.
Below are a few examples of how you can collaborate with us.
If you are interested in learning more about how your organisation can benefit from working with LSE, please get in touch.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/business/consulting:
LSE Consulting facilitates the application of LSE's academic expertise and intellectual resources in the wider world.
We deliver commissioned research, bespoke training sessions, specialised consulting, and access to leading academic speakers.
Our consulting services are tailored to meet the needs of organisations across many sectors around the globe, both public and private.
We offer topic-specific consulting services through our specialised Consulting Hubs
Learn more about the benefits, discover our how-to guides and explore the routes to engagements
Latest reports - See all
We're proud to announce a new collaboration with LSE Behavioural Lab
FORGOOD aims to bring ethical behavioural science to businesses
LSE Consulting's Trade Policy Hub gets its dedicated website!
Discover more about working with LSE Consulting and our experts
Find out how we can support academics in creating impact in the wider world
Watch our videos to find out more about our work and the impact it has created
+44 (0)20 7107 5215
consulting@lse.ac.uk
Houghton Street, London, WC2A 2AE, United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/research/research-for-the-world/ai-and-tech/recommended-reading-ai-and-technology:
Given the seismic changes introduced by generative AI in the past couple of years, this book may appear somewhat dated.
Nevertheless, it offers an excellent historical overview of the field by a prominent frontline participant.
In fact, the juxtaposition between deep learning and abstract and analogical reasoning that the book ends with is particularly poignant today, highlighting the natural limits of the currently dominant AI paradigm.
Written in an expertly accessible style, this book provides an intuitive introduction to the fundamental algorithms guiding much of optimisation and automatic decision-making today.
The authors emphasise links and parallels between human and algorithmic thinking, leaving the reader both admiring the unintentional robotic perfection of many human and social behaviours and anticipating a familiar, human-like intelligence from machines in the future.
This is a nearly complete collection of Isaac Asimov’s short stories about robots.
Most of these stories revolve around “AI alignment” problems – situations where robots go rogue and act against human’s’ values and goals.
What is most notable about the situations Asimov describes is that the robots misbehave not because they violate the three laws of robotics, but because they stick to the letter of these laws.
But do not worry – Susan Calvin, the cold and stern robopsychologist who has trouble understanding and interacting with fellow humans, will be there to analyse and outsmart the machines!
Recommended by Milena Tsvetkova, Associate Professor of Computational Social Science, Department of Methodology at LSE
We might think of AI as something we do on our computers, with little regard to the actual infrastructure – both physical and human – that underpins it.
This book explores the AI ecosystem, exposing its exploitative underbelly.
Based on extensive interviews, it presents a number of profiles of individuals involved: for example, an underpaid data annotator in East Africa, a data centre engineer in Iceland, a voice artist whose voice (and work) has been “stolen”, and a highly-paid data scientist living a sophisticated city life.
Concisely written, but with a wide scope, this is a very thoughtful book from a leading AI researcher.
It discusses the development of AI and its possible future, limitations and challenges.
The “shortcut” referred to in the title is the methodological switch from logical symbolic methods to those based on statistics and probability which make use of huge datasets and computing power.
Recommended by Martin Anthony, Director of LSE Data Science Institute and Professor of Mathematics, Department of Mathematics at LSE
Recent years have seen both an explosion in AI systems and a corresponding rise in critical analyses of such technologies.
Feminist scholarship has been central to this critique, showing the ways that the design and deployment of AI can further, rather than undermine, the pursuit of social justice.
This excellent anthology persuasively demonstrates why AI is a feminist issue.
This insightful and meticulously researched book makes a compelling case that the “connective labour” or socioemotional skills increasingly important to millions of jobs, both old and new, are at risk of being lost with the automation of jobs.
Pugh argues that we need to protect this vital humane work and the face-to-face interactions that are so essential to our wellbeing.
The book is a refreshing challenge to the promissory discourse about AI being able to replicate and even surpass human capacities/capabilities.
Recommended by Judy Wajcman, Professor Emeritus, Department of Sociology at LSE, and Fellow at the The Alan Turing Institute
This book by Richard Susskind, the well-known futurologist who has written about the future of professions, lawyers and courts, is the perfect introduction for someone new to the subject of AI and its challenges.
Susskind writes about AI in an instantly accessible way and focuses not on how AI functions but on what it does in terms of its societal impact.
He shows how AI is likely to change our lives in the future and asks us to think whether we are ready to meet that challenge.
This is not strictly a book about AI but rather one about the lakes of big data which are the fuel of modern AI.
O’Neil examines how data extracted from these data lakes may be used to make algorithmic decisions about you, and how bias, error or the mistakes made in selecting proxy data can impact our lives.
It’s a book that gets “under the hood” of how AI works.
Recommended by Andrew Murray, Professor of Law, LSE Law School
AI 2041 presents insightful, narrative-driven scenarios that illuminate the societal and ethical implications of AI, encouraging critical reflection on its near-future impact.
Recommended by Mikhail Burtsev, Visiting Fellow, Department of Psychological and Behavioural Science at LSE
In Generative AI in Education , B Mairéad Pratschke offers a timely and practical guide for educators to the role of AI in learning innovation.
She takes a critical, theory-based perspective and presents it in a practical and accessible way.
After introducing the reader to AI and digital education, the book offers practical strategies for educators to begin their teaching innovation journey with generative AI (GAI).
Taking a constructive and forward-looking perspective, Pratschke encourages educators to rethink traditional teaching and assessment methods and co-design more interactive, personalised and innovative learning approaches that equip students with the skills they need in the AI age.
Recommended by Dorottya Sallai, Associate Professor (Education) of Management, Department of Management at LSE
Thanks to the LSE staff who helped with putting together this reading list, which was compiled by Anna D’Alton, Managing Editor of LSE Review of Books .
LSE Blogs is the world’s largest dedicated social sciences blogging platform, publishing open and accessible research and commentary from world-leading experts to inform global debates.
16 Nov 2023 • 3 min read
21 Nov 2023 • 6 min read

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/DSI/About:
Professor Larry Kramer, President and Vice Chancellor, LSE
The DSI hosts, facilitates and promotes research in social and economic data science and AI.
Our core staff and network of Affiliates have delivered excellence in data science by combining technical aspects (statistics, machine learning and computer programming) with applications in the social world, encompassing political, economic, social, legal, policy and philosophical questions.
The DSI forms a nexus for teaching and learning in data science, and for coordinating degree programmes in data science that span departments, including the departments of Statistics , Methodology , and Mathematics .
It also works closely with the Digital Skills Lab for training in the skills and tools of data science, AI and computing.
The DSI works closely with teams across LSE to provide support services for those working with data.
Our Data Support Services page brings together information about the activity of teams such as the LSE Digital Library , LSE Data and Technology Services (DTS) and LSE LIFE .
The DSI works closely with LSE DTS on advancing computing infrastructure and services, especially in the area of cloud computing for data science research and teaching, and through delivering specialised training in the use of cloud-based computing.
It offers advice and training in AI and computational methods, on data manipulation and analysis, and the use of LLM’s.
Through our annual programme of public, research and student events we convene experts from academia, industry, government and policy spheres to discuss the transformational role of data science and AI in shaping the world’s political, economic and social future.
Working in collaboration with partners both within and beyond LSE, the Institute has an opportunity to help usher in a new era of possibility and progress, and to shape a world in which data science and AI serve as a catalyst to effect positive global change.
The DSI was launched in 2020 by Inaugural Director Professor Ken Benoit, Professor of Computational Social Science in the Department of Methodology at LSE.
It replaced the Social and Economic Data Science (SEDS) unit that existed from 2015 to 2020.
Keep up to date with the DSI on Twitter , LinkedIn , and YouTube and by signing up to our Newsletter .

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/DSI/People:
Professor Martin Anthony
Director, Data Science Institute
More information Email: DSI.Director@lse.ac.uk
Dr Cosmina Dorobantu
Senior Adviser
Email: C.Dorobantu@lse.ac.uk
Professor Helen Margetts OBE Senior Adviser
Email: H.Z.Margetts@lse.ac.uk
Professor Johannes Ruf
Deputy Director, Data Science Institute
Carmen Gray
Executive Assistant to the Senior Academic Team
Email: DSI.ExecAssist@lse.ac.uk
Dr Jonathan Cardoso-Silva
Assistant Professor (Education) Research Interests : Complex Network Analysis; Machine Learning; Data Science Management.
Dr Ghita Berrada Assistant Professor (Education) Research Interests : Graph mining; Anomaly detection; Ethical ML/AI; Explainability; Rule mining/FCA; Machine Learning; Provenance; Databases; Decision Support Systems; Time series analysis.
Toby Edison
Data Engineer at Zambia Evidence Lab (ZEL) International Growth Centre and Data Science Institute
Research Interests: Large Language Models; Data Automation; Databases; GIS Data Analysis; Dashboarding.
Sara Luxmoore
Research Officer
Jinshuai Ma
Research Officer in Data Science
Research Interests : Text analysis; Natural language processing; Human-centered software design; Physiological signal analysis.
More information Email: DSI.Computing@lse.ac.uk
Professor Zoltán Szabó
Turing University Network Liaison (Academic) More information Email: DSI.Turing.Academic@lse.ac.uk
Jill Beattie
Institute Manager Email: DSI.Manager@lse.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0) 20 7955 7759
Emily Cruz
Communications and Events Manager Email: DSI.Comms@lse.ac.uk Turing University Network Liaison (Administrative) Email: DSI.Turing.Admin@lse.ac.uk
Ali Eggleton
Institute Administrator Email: DSI.Admin@lse.ac.uk
Ellie Finlay
Events Officer Email: DSI.Events@lse.ac.uk
Executive Assistant to the Senior Academic Team Email: DSI.ExecAssist@lse.ac.uk
Kevin Kittoe
Teaching and Assessment Administrator Email: DSI.Ug@lse.ac.uk
Johanna Tate
Communications and Events Manager Email: DSI.Comms@lse.ac.uk
Dr Stuart Bramwell Email: S.Bramwell@lse.ac.uk
Tabtim Duenger Senior Data Scientist, The Economist Email: T.M.Duenger@lse.ac.uk
Riya Chhikara Data Scientist, The Economist Email: R.Chhikara@lse.ac.uk
Yassine Lahna Email: Y.Lahna@lse.ac.uk
Barry Ledeatte Email: B.Ledeatte@lse.ac.uk
Alexander Soldatkin DPhil Candidate, University of Oxford, Director of Studies, circle.institute Email: A.Soldatkin1@lse.ac.uk
Andreas Stöffelbauer Data Scientist, Microsoft
Email: A.Stoffelbauer1@lse.ac.uk
The LSE Data Science Institute (DSI) provides an innovative teaching and learning environment, placing value on an interdisciplinary focus and high levels of student satisfaction.
Due to ever-increasing student interest in DSI courses, GTAs and Guest Teachers with a passion for teaching, providing excellent academic and pastoral support, and delivering academic activities to enhance the student experience are required.
Our posts are designed to offer outstanding teachers the chance to develop their skills and educational practice within supportive surroundings.
Would you like to join our teaching team?
Please express an interest in joining us below.
We will be in touch during the next selection window.
You are eligible if you have a Masters or are a PhD student in data science or related fields (such as, programming, data wrangling and machine learning)
Vincent Chung PhD Candidate in Geography LSE Data Science PhD Studentship Email: v.j.chung@lse.ac.uk
More Information
Wendy Wang PhD Candidate in Social Research Methods Email: w.wang75@lse.ac.uk
Find out more about our Faculty Affiliates and their research
DSI Faculty Affiliates are members of staff from across LSE who are engaged with data science and AI in their research and teaching.
Affiliates participate in the activities of the institute and have special access to its resources.
Find out more about the DSI Affiliate Scheme.
Please note that only LSE staff are eligible to apply for DSI Affiliate status.
If you have any questions please email DSI.Admin@lse.ac.uk .
Apply to become a DSI Affiliate
DSI PhD Affilates are doctoral researchers, from departments across LSE, who have an interest in data science and artificial intelligence, whether they are interested in applications for their research, are studying the social scientific implications of AI and data or are working on fundamental methodologies.
Find out more about the scheme and apply to join
Elise Aguzzoli Department of Health Policy More Information
Francisco Aristi Reina Department of Mathematics More Information
Dimitrios Athanasiou Department of Economics More Information
Daniela Baeza Breinbauer Department of Geography and Environment More Information
Arnauld Balner Department of International History More Information
Roop Bhadury Department of Management More Information
Hannah Bunt Department of Psychological and Behaviour Science Alexandra Chesterfield Department of Psychological and Behaviour Science More Information
Vincent Chung Department of Geography and Environment More Information
Marco Cokic Department of Economic History
Christy Coulson Department of Methodology More Information
Parashar Das LSE Law School More Information
Philipp Gagel Department of Management More Information
Aristeidis Grivokostopoulos Department of Economic History More Information
Feng Han Department of Government
Sakina Hansen Department of Statistics More Information
Isolde Hegemann Department of Government
Zarja Hude LSE Law School More Information
Gaetano Inglese Department of Government More Information
Markus Karl Department of Mathematics More Information
Ruhi Khan Department of Media and Communications More Information
Susanne Klausing Department of Management More Information
Anton Könneke Department of Government
Charlotte Kuberka Department of Government
Caroline Leeds-Ruby LSE Law School More Information
YangYang Liu Department of Economic History
Tao Ma Department of Statistics More Information
Roberto Rafael Maura Rivero Department of Economics More Information
Domenico Mergoni Department of Mathematics More Information
Lennard Metson Department of Government
Georgia Meyer Department of Management More Information
Alexander Niederklapfer Department of Philosophy, Logic and Scientific Method
Sabrina Paiwand Department of Psychological and Behavioural Science
Pauline Pearcy Department of Health Policy More Information
Caleb Phillips Department of Management More Information
Edward Plumb Department of Mathematics More Information
Elena Pro European Institute More Information
Sharon Raj Department of Psychological and Behavioural Science More Information
Shivani Rao Department of Media and Communications More Information
Vastav Ratra Department of Economics More Information
Sarthak Saluja Department of Health Policy More Information
Moritz Schnorpfeil Department of Philosophy
Sia Sha Department of Psychological and Behavioural Science
Haoran Shi Department of Psychological and Behavioural Science More Information
Mohammad Fadil Sumun Department of Statistics More Information
Kay-Leigh Sussman Department of Health Policy More Information
Chuyao Wang Department of Methodology More Information
Wanying Wang Department of Health Policy More Information
Mac Wang Department of Methodology More Information
Jan Henrik Wasserziehr Department of Government More Information
Jonas Weinert Department of Health Policy More Information
Peter Wyckoff Department of Government More Information
Xinghe Zhu Department of Statistics
The Visiting Appointments scheme allows staff from other institutions to benefit from the level of involvement similar to that enjoyed by DSI Affiliates.
Dr Nicole Baerg Senior Lecturer, Department of Geography, University of Essex Visiting Senior Fellow
Website | Email
Dr Siân Brooke Assistant Professor, Informatics Institute, University of Amsterdam Visiting Fellow
John Burn-Murdoch Chief Data Reporter, the Financial Times Visiting Senior Fellow
Dr Gökhan Çiflikli Director of Data & AI, Superside Visiting Senior Fellow
Dr Raju Chinthalapati Reader of Financial Technologies, Goldsmith University Visiting Senior Fellow
Professor Nello Cristianini Professor of Artificial Intelligence University of Bath Visiting Professor
Website
Dr James Hamp Director and Head of FX Data Strategy and Analytics, Citi Visiting Fellow
Reid Hoffman Co-founder of LinkedIn and Manas AI Visiting Senior Fellow
Dr Ajay Kumar Associate Professor of Business Analytics, Emlyon Business School Visiting Senior Fellow
Professor Michael Laver Emeritus Professor of Politics, New York University Visiting Professor
Dr Tom Paskhalis Assistant Professor, Trinity College Dublin Visiting Fellow
Professor Mairéad Pratschke AI Strategist + Advisor in Digital Education Visiting Professor
Professor Ehud Shapiro Professor, Weizmann Institute of Science Visiting Professor
Dr Miriam Sorace Associate Professor of Business Analytics, University of Reading Visiting Senior Fellow
Dr Joshua Townsley Senior UX Researcher, WhatsApp Visiting Fellow
Professor Gyorgy Turan Professor, Mathematics, Statistics and Computer Science, University of Illinois Visiting Professor
Joyce Zeng Manager & Insurtech Lead, Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Visiting Fellow
Anastasiia Menshikova (WT 2024) PhD Candidate from the Institute for Analytical Sociology, Linköping University, Sweden
Nader Hotait (AT 2023) PhD Candidate in Sociology, University of Mannheim, Germany
Paride Carrara (WT and ST 2023) PhD Candidate in Political and Social Sciences, University of Bologna, Italy
Riccardo Ricciardi (AT 2022) PhD Candidate in Statistics and Data Science at the Department of Economics and Management, University of Brescia, Italy
Clint Claessen (WT 2022) PhD Candidate at the Department of Social Sciences, University of Basel
Fintan Oeri (AT 2021) PhD Candidate at the Faculty of Business and Economics, University of Basel
Philipp Darius (AT 2021) PhD Candidate in Governance at the Centre for Digital Governance, Hertie School
The DSI Management Committee exists to ensure the coordination of DSI activities with research, teaching, and outreach in data science across the various units of the school.
The Committee also provides input that shapes the goals of the DSI and its strategy for meeting those goals.
Membership:
Professor Michael Laver Visiting Professor, Department of Methodology
Professor Susana Mourato ( ex-officio ) Vice President and Pro-Vice Chancellor for Research Dr Alison Powell Associate Professor, Department of Media and Communications Professor Andrew Murray Professor of Law, LSE Law School
Professor Bernhard Von Stengel Professor, Department of Mathematics
Professor Patrick Sturgis Professor of Quantative Social Science, Department of Methodology
Professor Zoltán Szabó Professor of Data Science, Department of Statistics
The Data Science Education Forum exists to ensure the quality and coordination of data science teaching and learning across the School.
The responsibilities of the DSI Education Forum include facilitating effective communication with stakeholders across the School, collaborating on the provision and design of data science components offered by the Digital Skills Lab (DSL), and overseeing content development of DSI-led modules.
Membership: Professor Peter Allen Professor, Department of Mathematics Jeni Brown Head of LSE Digital Skills Lab Professor Emma McCoy ( ex-officio ) Vice President and Pro-Vice Chancellor for Education
Professor Irini Moustaki Professor and Deputy Head of Department, Department of Statistics
Dr Antonio Mele Assistant Professor of Economics (Education), Department of Economics
Dr Thomas Smith Associate Professor in Environmental Geography, Department of Geography and Environment Dr Milena Tsvetkova Assistant Professor of Computational Social Science, Department of Methodology
Dr Yang Yang Senior Academic Developer, LSE Eden Centre for Education Enhancement

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/DSI/Research:
The Data Science Institute brings together themes in data science research from across LSE.
On this page we highlight six cross-cutting themes including research at the DSI and by our LSE affiliates and external visitors.
Read more about the six key themes under which research is focussed.
Research News
Research
LSE Research Centres and Groups working on Data Science and AI

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/DSI/study:
Undergraduate and postgraduate degrees, modules, short courses and summer schools to equip students, researchers and executives with key data science and AI knowledge and skills
Quick Links

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/DSI/Events:
The DSI hosts a range of events including research seminars, workshops and showcases, public lectures, industry collaborations and careers seminars.
We organise a wide range of events for students, researchers and public audiences
Past Event Highlights
Catch up on the 2024 DSI Squared Symposium

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/DSI/Jobs:
Stay informed of DSI opportunities by signing up to our newsletter and following us on Twitter and LinkedIn .
We circulate opportunities, news and events linked to data science at LSE via these channels.
LSE Careers is able to offer support to help students progress their career ideas, no matter the stage they are at.
Careers consultants Edith Karinthi-Durnez and Aaron Trevitt offer some advice in this blog for students seeking a career in data and technology.
LSE students can sign up for vacancy alerts and use CareerHub .
to search for vacancies and opportunities.
A selection of Data Science and Information and Technology opportunities currently listed on CareerHub are available below:
The DSI circulates opportunities from outside of LSE via our newsletter.
If you would like to see your opportunity promoted by the DSI, please contact us via email .
The LSE Careers Employer Engagement Team also offer services to employers, helping employers to find the right students and graduates.
Contact the Employer Engagement Team here or via email.
Employers can also register onto the LSE CareerHub platform .
By registering, employers can submit bookings to be involved in the events programme and advertise paid opportunities to LSE students and recent alumni.
Regardless of sector or size, all organisations are welcome to post their vacancies to this board that is accessed by thousands of individuals each day.
Students and graduates use the vacancy board to search for a range of opportunities including graduate / entry level positions, internships, part-time roles, and experience hire roles.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/Events/2025/06/202506251830/skills-to-capabilities:
How can we shape engaging work environments that foster productivity and enable workers to flourish?
Using evidence from the Pissarides Report the event will highlight the importance of not only being skilled but also feeling capable of drawing on technological advancements in the workplace.
Mary O’Mahony is Professor of Applied Economics at King's Business School.
Her research interests include measuring and explaining international differences in productivity, technology and growth; human capital formation and its impacts on productivity and measuring performance in public services, including health and education.
Christopher Pissarides is the 2010 Nobel Prize laureate in economics, the Regius Professor of Economics at LSE and the Professor of European Studies at the University of Cyprus.
He is a macroeconomist who specialises in the economics of labour markets, economic growth and structural change, especially as they relate to obstacles to free-market clearing.
Stephen Machin is Professor of Economics and Director of the Centre for Economic Performance at the London School of Economics.
He is a Fellow of the British Academy, has been President of the European Association of Labour Economists, is a Fellow of the Society of Labor Economists and was an independent member of the Low Pay Commission from 2007-14.
The Centre for Economic Performance ( @CEP_LSE ) carries out policy-focused research on the causes of economic growth and effective ways to create a fair, inclusive and sustainable society.
Browse other upcoming events, short films, articles and blogs on on our dedicated hub.
This event is one of three events this term with a Nobel Laureate .
Sign up to receive email updates from LSE Events including the latest news and event announcements.
A podcast of this event is available to watch at Skills in the age of AI
A video of this event is available to watch at Skills in the age of AI
Podcasts and videos of many LSE events can be found at the LSE Public Lectures and Events: podcasts and videos channel .
Many speakers at LSE events also write for
, which present research and critical commentary accessibly for a public audience.
Follow
British Politics and Policy
, the
Business Review
Impact Blog
,
European Politics and Policy
and the
LSE Review of Books
to learn more about the debates our events series present.
Photographs taken on behalf of LSE are often used on our social media accounts, website and publications.
At events, photographs could include broad shots of the audience and lecture theatre, of speakers during the talk, and of audience members as they participate in the Q&A.
If you are photographed participating in an event Q&A but would not like your photograph to be stored for future use, please contact events@lse.ac.uk .
of past events can be found online.
Livestreams and archive videos of past lectures are shared on our YouTube channel while event podcasts can be found on the .
If you are planning to attend this event and would like details on how to get here and what time to arrive, as well as on accessibility and special requirements, please refer to
LSE Events FAQ
LSE aims to ensure that people have equal access to these public events, but please contact the events organiser as far as possible in advance if you have any access requirements so that arrangements, where possible, can be made.
Access Guides to all our venues can be viewed online
Visitors from other participating institutions are encouraged to use
eduroam
Existing LSE staff and students are encouraged to use
instead.
The views expressed by speakers at LSE events do not reflect the position or views of The London School of Economics and Political Science.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/research/research-for-the-world/ai-and-tech/ai-job-losses:
A packet of humble tomato seeds can cost as little as 49 pence, a price that obscures the true value of the market – the flower- and plant-growing industry is estimated to be worth £1.8 billion in the UK alone.
Seeds are big business, but profit is linked to a company’s ability to ensure it is selling only those of the highest quality.
Seed sorting might seem like a task ripe for automation – after all, AI excels at pattern recognition.
But introducing AI into a process long shaped by human judgement raises complex questions.
As with all new systems, deciding how best to integrate machine learning into established processes, and what the longer-term consequences of decisions made as a result of today’s tech might be, are as yet unclear.
One company's decision to use AI to manage its seed sorting processes, however, has enabled Dr Tomislav Karačić , Assistant Professor of Information Systems in the Department of Management at LSE, to interrogate this issue.
His study highlights the uses and limits of machine learning and identifies potential pitfalls and opportunities – both with the management of human labour and overall performance of the task – that companies will need to consider if they are to integrate this new technology into their daily businesses effectively.
Although the study of AI in business is not novel, there is little information systems and management research into the use of AI in agriculture – a striking omission when we consider that around 40 per cent of the world’s population have been estimated to work in agrifood systems .
“There wasn’t a single paper that I was able to find, which actually took this context, and that seemed strange to me because with pressing issues like climate change and population growth, the concern about not having enough food is important for the whole world,” says Dr Karačić.
One of the reasons for this may be the difficulty in accessing information.
“I spent over a year and a half looking for a case organisation,” Dr Karačić recalls.
Beyond the proprietorial nature of company data, Dr Karačić discovered that the messages companies project to the world are not always aligned with the behind-the-scenes reality.
“It was surprisingly difficult to find a company that did not just claim to use AI, but which actually used it,” he says.
“It’s terrifyingly common for organisations to present themselves as AI-driven when they're actually not.”
Reasons for this range from wanting to be considered more innovative than their competitors, to needing to be seen as standard as AI terminology became more common.
“If everybody’s doing it, you ought to be doing it,” says Dr Karačić.
“And the definition of AI is not clear anyway: there’s also a lot of grey space so you might as well use the term.
No one wants to be the only one not doing it.”
Dr Karačić eventually identified a company that was not just making innovative use of AI to develop new plant varieties, but was also willing to give him access to study its implementation.
“This company had committed to not using any gene editing in their development, but because of this, they struggled to cope with the speed of competitors that were using these techniques.
They decided that investing in machine learning would be the way to address this and help them develop new varieties of plants that are, for example, resistant to diseases or more adaptable to climate change with the same speed of their competitors using gene editing,” he says.
Developing a new plant variety is only one part of the process, however.
For a company to be competitive, it must ensure that farmers buying its seeds can be confident in their crop.
Industry standard is that at least 90 per cent of seeds in a packet must germinate, meaning that companies selling seeds below this mark will quickly find themselves out of profit.
As a result, any seed considered defective is sorted out of the assembly line as part of the packaging process.
Dr Karačić gives the example of tomato seeds to explain: “Imagine one tomato seed would be sold for one euro, and a kilo of tomato seeds has 250,000 seeds.
A very small bag can be worth one million euros.
If only 85 per cent of them are good, however, then it basically becomes worthless – it's considered a waste – whereas if 90 per cent grow, that is a quarter of a million per kilo.
So if you invest several million euros into a machine that can get it right every time, that pays off relatively quickly.”
Seed sorting might sound simple from the outside, but it actually requires a high degree of sensory and experiential knowledge.
“Although the workers have machines to help, they would have to build up knowledge through doing – so grabbing the seed in their hands, rubbing them, smelling them, looking at them, trying to figure out what's wrong with them if they thought they were bad,” says Dr Karačić.
“This means that it's very hard to articulate how they are actually doing seed sorting.
It’s also not a foolproof process – sometimes it just doesn’t work.” And so seed sorting was a perfect case to study how AI changes are implemented.
At first glance, the story seemed to confirm a common fear: that AI would simply replace human workers.
“Initially, the ambition was to automate much of the sorting process,” says Dr Karačić.
“There was a clear push to see how far the technology could go.” But what unfolded was more complicated – a process that revealed the importance of thoughtful integration and close attention to how people and machines could support one another.
"At first they did manage to build these machines, and they worked perfectly.
They had a camera which would image each seed, and the model could predict with extremely high accuracy what a good or bad seed was.
Then these pneumatic tubes would sort them into waste or good bags, so the whole process became machine-driven,” says Dr Karačić.
“What this did initially to the seed sorters was to effectively turn them into operators – so they were only needed to press start and stop or clean the machines – but the sorting was done by machine."
Although on the surface it might appear that the “expertise” had been successfully transferred from a person to a machine, Dr Karačić explains that more was in play than immediately apparent.
Although former seed sorters' responsibilities had shifted to the manual operation of these machines, their learning of what a good and bad seed looked like continued to develop.
“These machines use X-ray imagery to determine if a seed is viable or not, and so for the first time in their lives these workers, who had been sorting seeds for decades, could see the insides of these seeds.
And they started noticing patterns.”
At first, Dr Karačić says, these patterns were just discussed amongst themselves – a detail considered unimportant.
Until, that is, the machines stopped working.
“The developers were really not sure why the machines had become less reliable.
But because the seed sorters had developed an understanding of the patterns in the physical seeds over their years of physical sorting, they had also noticed when different and new patterns began to emerge on the images.
Through their expertise, the company was able to identify what was happening.”
As a result of their observations, the company understood the problem: as new varieties of seed were being developed, new defects were also being introduced into the seed’s lifecycle.
Although the AI imagery could see these defects, because they had not existed at the time the model was developed, the machines were unable to identify which were good or bad.
Following this discovery, the developers recommended that the company deploy people to undertake a quality check as part of its seed sorting process.
“This became their new task, but they also started initiating all sorts of research projects, collaborating with lab technicians, with seed researchers, etc.
And suddenly they become this very important knowledgeable worker in the organisation,” says Dr Karačić.
“Over just five years, the role of seed sorters at the company changed dramatically.
People who had long worked in roles often undervalued or assumed to be automatable became key operators in a new AI-supported process.
Many of these same individuals are now working with advanced software and contributing to decisions that are central to plant science and seed quality.”
The introduction of AI changed how work was organised – and recognised.
Workers who had long been involved in hands-on sorting, and later in maintaining and overseeing the machines, became essential to the system’s operation.
Their familiarity with seed quality and their close involvement with the new technology positioned them as key contributors to the overall process.
Technology that was initially seen as a way to automate workers’ tasks ended up reshaping their roles instead.
Rather than being sidelined, these workers became more central – taking on new responsibilities, working with data, and developing skills that positioned them as experts in a hybrid system of human and machine decision-making.
AI ended up being a success story for these workers and the company, but things could have played out very differently.
Had they been fully replaced too early, the company might have lost the ability to operate at all.
Had the workers not paid attention to their new roles, they might have missed the new patterns developing.
The move towards using AI to maximise both efficacy and efficiency appears unstoppable, and as Dr Karačić’s findings show, successful implementation can benefit both the company and its workers.
For upskilling to become the norm rather than the outlier, however, companies must proceed with care.
“Companies really need to be more specific when they look at integrating AI into their systems and really think through what exactly they need.
What is the format of the data that they want to use?
What are some of the algorithms they want to rely on?
What are the new variables that machines might need to manage in the future?
By making the process much more specific, companies will hopefully have more long-term ability to adapt as things change.
This should also help reduce the aura of mysticism around AI that has allowed many to overinflate their current uses of this technology, which would also be beneficial.”
Dr Tomislav Karačić was speaking to Jess Winterstein, Deputy Head of Media Relations at LSE.
Assistant Professor of Information Systems,  Department of Management, LSE
Dr Tomislav Karačić is Assistant Professor of Information Systems in the Department of Management at LSE.
He uses ethnographic methods to study development and use of artificial intelligence in biotechnology and agriculture, and his research interests include artificial intelligence and knowledge work, collaboration between developers and domain experts, data work, and organising for data.
29 May 2025 • 8 min read
8 Nov 2023 • 6 min read

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/DSI/People/faculty-affiliates:
Affiliates participate in the activities of the Institute and have special access to its resources.
Find out more about the DSI Faculty Affiliate Scheme .
Dr Audrey Alejandro Associate Professor Department of Methodology
Dr Miqdad Asaria Assistant Professor Department of Health Policy
Dr Galit Ashkenazi-Golan Assistant Professor Department of Mathematics
Dr Mona Azadkia Assistant Professor Department of Statistics
Dr Marcos Barreto Assistant Professor (Education) and KEI Strategic Lead Assistant Professorial Lecturer Department of Statistics
Professor Pauline Barrieu Professor, Head of Department and Vice-Chair of Academic Board Department of Statistics
Dr Tuğkan Batu Assistant Professor Department of Mathematics
Professor Charlie Beckett Professor of Practice, Director of Polis and the Polis/ LSE Journalism AI Project Department of Media and Communications
Dr Liam Beiser-McGrath Assistant Professor Department of Social Policy
Professor Wicher Bergsma Professor Department of Statistics
Professor Tim Besley School Professor of Economics and Political Science Department of Economics
Professor Jonathan Birch Professor Department of Philosophy Logic and Scientific Method
Dr Chris Blunt Assistant Professorial Lecturer and Co-Director of LSE100
Professor Umut Cetin Professor of Statistics Department of Statistics
Dr Yining Chen Associate Professor Department of Statistics Website | Email
Dr Yunxiao Chen Assistant Professor Department of Statistics
Dr Alexandra Cirone Assistant Professor School of Public Policy
Dr Antonio Cordella Associate Professor Department of Management
Professor Riccardo Crescenzi Professor of Economic Geography and Deputy Head of Department (Research) Department of Geography and Environment
Professor Neil Cummins Professor Department of Economic History
Dr Christoph Czichowsky Associate Professor Department of Mathematics
Dr Daniel De Kadt Assistant Professor Department of Methodology
Dr Zachary Dickson LSE Fellow in Quantitative Methodology Department of Methodology
Dr Eugenie Dugoua Assistant Professor of Environmental Economics Department of Geography and Environment
Dr Marion Dumas Assistant Professorial Research Fellow Grantham Research Institute
Professor Alexander Evans Associate Dean (Strategic Development) and Programme Director, MPA in Data Science for Public Policy School of Public Policy
Dr Shereen Fernandez LSE Fellow LSE100
Dr Giulia Ferrari Research Fellow LSE Health
Dr Florian Foos Associate Professor in Political Behaviour Department of Government
Dr Carrie Friese Associate Professor Department of Sociology
Dr Seeta Peña Gangadharan Associate Professor, Deputy Head of Department (Research) Department of Media and Communications
Professor Luis Garicano Professor of Public Policy School of Public Policy
Dr Friedrich Geiecke Assistant Professor of Computational Social Science Department of Methodology
Dr Sara Geneletti Associate Professor and MSc Data Science Programme Director Department of Statistics
Dr Sakshi Ghai Assistant Professor in Psychological and Behavioural Science Department of Psychological and Behavioural Science
Professor Fernand Gobet Professorial Research Fellow Department of Philosophy, Logic and Scientific Method
Dr Alexandra Gomes Research Fellow LSE Cities
Dr Anushri Gupta Research Officer Department of Management
Dr Yuanmo He LSE Fellow Department of Methodology
Dr Ryan Hübert Associate Professor Department of Methodology
Dr David Itkin Assistant Professor Department of Statistics
Professor Xavier Jaravel Professor Department of Economics
Dr Christian Julliard Associate Professor of Finance Department of Finance
Dr Kostas Kalogeropoulos Associate Professor and MSc Statistics Programme Director Department of Statistics
Dr Tomislav Karačić Assistant Professor Department of Management
Dr Ieva Kazlauskaitė Assistant Professor Department of Statistics
Dr Casey Kearney Assistant Professor (Education) School of Public Policy
Professor Tom Kirchmaier Director of Policing and Crime research group Centre for Economic Performance
Professor Astrid Krenz Miguel Dols Fellow Department of Geography and Environment
Dr Dario Krpan Assistant Professor Department of Psychological and Behavioural Science
Dr Jonathan Leape Associate Professor and IGC Executive Director Department of Economics
Dr Linda Li LSE Fellow Department of Methodology
Professor Sonia Livingstone Professor Department of Media and Communications
Dr Joshua Loftus Professor Department of Statistics
Dr Jens Koed Madsen Assistant Professor Department of Psychological and Behavioural Science
Dr Lee Mager AI Innovation Development Data and Technology Services
LinkedIn | Email
Dr Luke McDonagh Associate Professor of Law LSE Law School Website | Email
Dr Antonio Mele Associate Professor and Undergraduate Programme Director Department of Economics
Dr Blake Miller Assistant Professor Department of Methodology
Andrew Moles Learning Developer - Data Science Tools Digital Skills Lab
Professor Irini Moustaki Professor and Deputy Head of Department (Teaching) Department of Statistics
Dr Carl Müller-Crepon Assistant Professor Department of Government
Professor Andrew Murray Professor of Law LSE Law School
Dr Michael Muthukrishna Associate Professor of Economic Psychology Department of Psychological and Behavioural Science
Dr Neil Olver
Associate Professor Department of Mathematics
Dr David O'Sullivan Assistant Professor Department of Mathematics
Dr Katerina Papadaki Associate Professor Department of Mathematics
Dr Nils Peters LSE Fellow in Economic Sociology Department of Sociology
Dr Jean-Christophe Plantin Associate Professor Department of Media and Communications
Dr Mathias Poertner Assistant Professor in Political Science Department of Government
Dr Alison Powell Associate Professor Department of Media and Communications
Dr Eleanor Power Assistant Professor Department of Methodology
Dr Xinghao Qiao Associate Professor Department of Statistics
Professor Ronny Razin Professor of Economics and Head of Department Department of Economics
Dr Thomas Robinson Assistant Professor Department of Methodology
Dr Kaveh Salehzadeh-Nobari Postdoctoral Researcher in Data Science The Inclusion Initiative
Dr Dorottya Sallai Associate Professor (Education) of Management Department of Management
Dr Melissa Sands Assistant Professor of Politics and Data Science Department of Government
Dr Aurelien Saussay Assistant Professorial Research Fellow Grantham Research Institute
Dr Anuschka Schmitt Assistant Professor Department of Management
Dr Chengchun Shi Associate Professor Department of Statistics
Dr Divya Srivastrava Guest Teacher Department of Health Policy
Dr Mariya Stoilova Research Officer, Global Kids Online Department of Media and Communications
Professor Elizabeth Stokoe Professor Department of Psychological and Behavioural Science
Professor Patrick Sturgis Professor of Quantitative Social Science Department of Methodology
Professor Zoltán Szabó Professor of Data Science Department of Statistics
Dr Ben Tappin Assistant Professor in Psychological and Behavioural Science Department of Psychological and Behavioural Science
Dr Milena Tsvetkova Associate Professor of Computational Social Science Department of Methodology
Dr Ana Varela Varela Assistant Professor in Georgaphic Data Science Department of Geography and Environment
Professor Dimitri Vayanos Professor of Finance Department of Finance
Dr Will Venters Associate Professor of Information Systems Department of Management
Professor Bernhard von Stengel Professor Department of Mathematics
Professor Milan Vojnovic Professor Department of Statistics
Dr Kate Vredenburgh Assistant Professor Department of Philosophy, Logic and Scientific Method
Professor Judy Wajcman Emeriti Department of Sociology
Professor James Walters Professor in Practice Department of International Relations / LSE Faith Centre
Dr Tengyao Wang Professor and MSc Statistics (Financial Statistics) Programme Director Department of Statistics
Professor Edgar Whitley Professor of Information Systems Department of Management
Wei Xing Head of Research Computing Data and Technology Services
Professor Qiwei Yao Professor Department of Statistics
Youngjin Yoo Professor of Information Systems and Innovation Department of Management

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/law/people/academic-staff/andrew-murray:
Andrew Murray is Professor of Law with particular reference to New Media and Technology Law, Director of the LSE Law, Society and Technology Group, and a Fellow of the Royal Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce (FRSA).
Andrew studied law at Edinburgh University, from where he graduated (LL.B.
Hons) in 1994.
He then spent some time as a research assistant in the Department of Private Law, University of Edinburgh before taking up a lectureship in law at the University of Stirling in 1996.
He joined the LSE in September 2000.
As well as holding memberships of: The Society of Computers and Law (SCL); The Higher Education Academy (HEA) and The David Hume Institute, Andrew was from 2001-2004 an Executive Member of the British and Irish Law, Education and Technology Association (BILETA); and was from 2002-2008 a recognised 'Independent Expert' of the Nominet UK Dispute Resolution Procedure and from 2007-2012 a Fellow of the Honourable Society of Gray’s Inn.
He is a visiting professor at the Amsterdam Law and Technology Institute and was a visiting professor in the Ecole de Droit, Sciences Po, Paris in Spring 2015 and at the Paris School of International Affairs in Spring 2017.
In 2018/19 he was the specialist advisor to the House of Lords Communications Committee inquiry “Regulating in a Digital World”.
He gave the 2020 TMC Asser Lecture on the subject of “Law and human agency in the Time of Artificial Intelligence”.
More recently he has advised the Government of Saudi Arabia on the new Saudi Ecommerce Law, was a Judge/Reviewer for the 2024 Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz Prize and has acted as a reviewer for the German Federal Government’s “Clusters of Excellence” programme.
Administative support: Law.Reception@lse.ac.uk
Andrew is an Expert panellist for the ICC International Centre of Expertise (to decide Limited Public Interest objections raised under the ICANN New gTLD Dispute Resolution Procedure).
From 2018 to 2020 he was a specialist advisor to The Ministry of Commerce and Investment of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on the project to introduce a New Ecommerce Law for Saudi Arabia.
The Law and the enabling Regulations which Andrew also helped draft may be found are here .
The final Report may be found here .
He was a member of the IMPRESS Advisory Network and was between 2018 and 2020 a Member of the Law Society LawTech Regulatory Action Taskforce.
In 2017/18 he was a Commissioner for the LSE Truth, Trust and Technology Commission.
The Final Report of the Commission may be found here .
LL210 Information Technology and the Law
LL4S1 Cyberlaw
LL4S2 E-Commerce Law
LL4S4 Digital Rights, Privacy and Security
LL4S5 Regulation of Digital Creativity and Investment
The Sixth Annual TMC Asser Lecture
LSE Research: The Law in the Age of Artificial Intelligence
Inaugural Lecture: Open the Pod Bay Doors HAL.
Machine Intelligence and the Law
On Law, Technology and Society
Do Algorithms Have Too Much Power?
(contributor)
Information Technology Law : The Law and Society 5th ed.
(Oxford, 2023)
The fifth edition of this ground-breaking textbook develops its unique examination of the legal processes and their relationship to the modern 'information society'.
Charting the development of the rapid digitization of society and its impact on established legal principles, it examines the challenges faced with enthusiasm and clarity.
Following a clearly-defined part structure, the text begins by defining the information society and discussing how it may be regulated, before moving on to explore issues of internet governance, privacy and surveillance, intellectual property and rights, and commerce within the digital sphere.
click here for publisher's site
EU Regulation of E-Commerce A Commentary (Second Edition) (Edward Elgar, 2022) co-edited with Arno R.
Lodder (Professor, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, the Netherlands)
Significantly revised and expanded, this important book addresses the key pieces of EU legislation in the field of e-commerce, including on consumer rights, copyright, electronic identification, open internet access, electronic payments, competition law and digital content.
This unique work provides an updated account of the essential pieces of EU legislation on e-commerce.
Legal practitioners will benefit from the clear structure and close examination of key provisions.
The book will also appeal to legal scholars and advanced students, who will appreciate the concise overview and thoughtful analysis on future developments in the field.
click here for publisher’s site
Almost Human: Law and Human Agency in the Time of Artificial Intelligence (T.M.C.
Asser Press, 2021)
This book examines the threats posed to human agency by the expanded adoption of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning and asks whether the foundations of datafication and its challenge to human agency are a threat to the rule of law.
Information Technology Law : The Law and Society 4th ed.
(Oxford, 2019)
The fourth edition of this leading textbook provides comprehensive coverage of all aspects of the law as it relates to the modern online environment, including governance, digital content and intellectual property, criminal activity and e-commerce in the information society, and privacy and data protection.
It discusses the unique challenges of the information society, with reference to network neutrality, digital speech and the fake news challenge, virtual currencies including cryptocurrency , and the future challenges presented by user generated content, smart contracts and blockchain.
This book is also available as an audiobook from the following sites:
Audiobooks.com Audible
Rethinking the Jurisprudence of Cyberspace (Edward Elgar, 2018) co-authored with Chris Reed (Professor of Electronic Commerce Law, Queen Mary University of London)
Cyberspace is a difficult area for lawyers and lawmakers.
With no physical constraining borders, the question of who is the legitimate lawmaker for cyberspace is complex.
Rethinking the Jurisprudence of Cyberspace examines how laws can gain legitimacy in cyberspace and identifies the limits of the law’s authority in this space.
EU Regulation of E-Commerce: A Commentary (Edward Elgar 2017) co-edited with Arno R.
For the last twenty years the European Union has been extremely active in the field of e-commerce.
This important new book addresses the key pieces of EU legislation in the field of e-commerce, including the E-commerce Directive, the Services Directive, the Consumer Directive, the General Data Protection Regulation, and the eID Regulation.
The latest in the Elgar Commentaries series, EU Regulation of E-Commerce is the first book to apply this well-established format to a dynamic and increasingly significant area of law.
Information Technology Law : The Law and Society 3rd ed.
(Oxford, 2013); new edition forthcoming in July 2019
The third edition of Information Technology Law develops the discussions of the unique challenges the information society brings to the study of law, with reference to contemporary developments such as state surveillance programmes, and laws, post Snowden; the 2016 General Data Protection Regulation, the "Right to be Forgotten", and the Max Schrems decision; developments in net neutrality regulation; and the development of crypocurrencies (such as BitCoin).
The Regulation of Cyberspace: Control in the Online Environment (London: Routledge-Cavendish,  2006)
In The Regulation of Cyberspace , Andrew Murray examines the development and design of regulatory structures in the online environment.
The book models how all forms of control, including design controls, and market controls, as well as traditional command and control regulation, are applied within the complex and flexible environment of Cyberspace.
Drawing on the work of Cyber-regulatory theorists such as Yochai Benkler, Andrew Shapiro and Lawrence Lessig, Murray suggests a model for Cyberspace regulation which acknowledges its complexity.
He further suggests how this model can be utilised by regulators to provide a more comprehensive regulatory structure for Cyberspace.
Human Rights in the Digital Age (London: Glasshouse, January 2005); co-edited with M.
Klang
The digital age began in 1939 with the construction of the first digital computer.
In the 65 years that have followed, the influence of digitisation on our everyday lives has grown steadily and today digital technology has a greater influence on our lives than at any time since its development.
This book examines the role played by digital technology in both the exercise and suppression of human rights.
The global digital environment has allowed us to reinterpret the concept of universal human rights.
Discourse on human rights need no longer be limited by national or cultural boundaries and individuals have the ability to create new forms in which to exercise their rights or even to bypass national limitations to rights.
The defence of such rights is meanwhile under constant assault by the newfound ability of states to both suppress and control individual rights through the application of these same digital technologies.
This book gathers together an international group of experts working within this rapidly developing area of law and technology and focuses their attention on the specific interaction between human rights and digital technology.
This is the first work to explore the challenges brought about by digital technology to fundamental freedoms such as privacy, freedom of expression, access, assembly and dignity.
It is essential reading for anyone who fears digital technology will lead to the ‘Big Brother’ state.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/Methodology/People/Academic-Staff/Milena-Tsvetkova/Milena-Tsvetkova:
Milena Tsvetkova is an Associate Professor in the Department of Methodology.
She completed her PhD in Sociology at Cornell University in 2015.
Prior to joining LSE in 2017, she was a Postdoctoral Researcher in Computational Social Science at the Oxford Internet Institute, University of Oxford.
Milena’s research interests lie in the fields of computational and experimental social science.
She is the director of the HUMANET lab , funded by the ERC Consolidator grant with €2,000,000 in 2025–2030 to study networks and communities comprised of humans and intelligent machines such as algorithms and bots.
Leading an interdisciplinary team of research assistants, postdocs, and external scholars, Milena is investigating how human-machine, machine-machine, and human-human interactions differ and how they affect collective outcomes such as coordination, cooperation, and social contagion.
The research combines theories form social psychology, network sociology, human-computer interaction, and AI and employs large-scale online experiments, network analysis, data mining, and agent-based modeling.
Computational social science; Online experiments; Network analysis; Agent based modeling; Cooperation; Collective behavior; Sociology; Social psychology; Human-computer interaction.
M.
Tsvetkova, T.
Yasseri, N.
Pescetelli, and T.
Werner.
2024.
A new sociology of humans and machines .
Nature Human Behaviour 8:1864–1876.
Y.
He and M.
Tsvetkova.
2023.
A method for estimating individual socioeconomic status of Twitter users .
Sociological Methods and Research 0(0):1–36.
Tsvetkova, S.
Müller, O.
Vuculescu, H.
Ham, and R.
Sergeev.
2022.
Relative feedback increases disparities in effort and performance in crowdsourcing contests .
Proceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer Interaction 6(CSCW2):536.
J.E.
Kim and M.
2021.
Cheating in online gaming spreads through observation and victimization .
Network Science 9(4):425–442.
The effects of reputation on inequality in network cooperation games .
Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B 376:20200299.
Tsvetkova, A.
Mao, and C.
Wagner.
2018.
The emergence of inequality in social groups: Network structure and institutions affect the distribution of earnings in cooperation games .
PLoS ONE, 13(7), e0200965.
Tsvetkova, R.
García-Gavilanes, L.
Floridi, and T.
Yasseri.
2017.
Even good bots fight: The case of Wikipedia .
PLoS ONE 12(2): e0171774.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/management/people/academic-staff/dorottya-sallai:
LinkedIn
Dr Dorottya Sallai is an Associate Professor (Education) in Management.
She serves as the Department of Management’s Education and Assessment Innovation Lead, Chair of the Artificial Intelligence (AI) Working Group, and the department’s representative in LSE’s AI Working Group.
Her work in management education focuses on innovation and the integration of digital technologies, simulation games, and generative AI into teaching, learning, and assessment practices.
In her interdisciplinary research, Dorottya explores how organisations and leaders navigate institutional transitions and relationships at the intersection of management, politics, artificial intelligence (AI), education, and policy.
She is particularly interested in how executive decision-making, strategy, foreign direct investment (FDI), and education are shaped by global political and technological changes, such as the rise of populism and the emergence of generative AI (GenAI).
Dorottya has received consistent recognition for teaching excellence, including LSE’s Outstanding Teaching Award and Excellence in Education Award, the Department of Management’s Academic Contribution Award, and first place in the Top Ten Teachers’ Award.
Research projects:
Drawing on her professional background in EU consulting prior to her academic career, she advises public- and private-sector organisations, as well as European institutions such as the European Commission.
She is an affiliate of LSE’s Data Science Institute, and Senior Fellow of the Higher Education Academy.
Organisational Behaviour Faculty Research Group
Courses: Leading Organisational Change, Organisational Behaviour and Leadership, Negotiations, Lobbying and AI Leadership.
Publications:
Blog Entries :
Sallai, Dorottya (2024) Assessment and curriculum design can’t ignore how students use AI .
Initially posted in Times Higher Education (23 July 2024).
Reposted on Management with Impact Blog with the author's permission (09 August 2024).
Sallai, Dorottya; Gyger, Annina C.; Francisco, Julio Ignacio Benitez; Chaudhuri, Arundhati; Bengham, Soloman; Farley, Meagan; Nwokedi, Ada Onyinye and Singh, Rashmi (2024) Embracing GenAI in Higher Education: A Change Journey Through the Eyes of Educators and Students.
Management with Impact Blog (01 August 2024).
Sallai, Dorottya (2024) A Human-Centred Approach to AI Transformation .
Management with Impact Blog (09 May 2024).
Sallai, Dorottya, Calin, Olimpia and Ibáñez, Camila (2023) Leading Organisational Change: Teaching and Learning with Simulation Games.
Management (05 Sep 2023).
Sallai, Dorottya (2023) Levelling up management education: how to power student success with simulation games.
Management (01 Sep 2023).
Sallai, Dorottya and Schnyder, Gerhard (2023) How multinationals survive populist governments.
LSE Business Review (11 May 2023).
Sallai, Dorottya; Gomes, Marcus; Feldmann, Magnus; Morgan, Glenn, & Spicer, Andrew (2021), Social Challenges for Business in the Age of Populism , Business and Society , (21 November 2021).
Sallai, Dorottya and Schnyder, Gerhard (2021) What makes a capitalist system authoritarian?
Business and Society, (14 December 2021).
Sallai, Dorottya (2021) On the Bookshelf, with Dorottya Sallai and Barbara Kiviat, Book Review: The Class Ceiling: Why it Pays to be Privileged , by Sam Friedman and Daniel Laurison (Policy Press, 2020), Blog Entry.
Sallai, Dorottya and Schnyder, Gerhard (2020) The return of the visible hand: How struggles for economic and political dominance turn state capitalism into authoritarian capitalism , 20 August 2020, Developing Economics.
Sallai, Dorottya and Schnyder, Gerhard (2018) Is the EU subsidising autocracies?
Hungary and the rise of the ‘illiberal’ model .
The Conversation (12 January 2018) Blog Entry.
Articles :
Sallai, D., Cardoso-Silva, J., Barreto, M., Panero, F., Berrada, G.
and Luxmoore, S.
(2024) Approach Generative AI Tools Proactively or Risk Bypassing the Learning Process in Higher Education , LSE Public Policy Review, 3(3), p.
7.
Sallai, Dorottya; Morgan, Glenn; Feldmann, Magnus; Gomes, Marcus and Spicer, Andrew (2024) Social challenges for business in the age of populism.
Business & Society, 63 (2).
279 - 299.
ISSN 0007-6503
Sallai, Dorottya; Schnyder, Gerhard; Kinderman, Daniel and Nölke, Andreas (2023) The antecedents of MNC political risk and uncertainty under right-wing populist governments.
Journal of International Business Policy.
ISSN 2522-0691
Ricz, Judit; Sallai, Dorottya and Sass, Magdolna (2024) The role of the state in shaping the internationalization of firms in the twenty-first century.
Competition and Change.
ISSN 1024-5294
Schnyder, Gerhard and Sallai, Dorottya (2020) Between a rock and a hard place: internal- and external institutional fit of MNE subsidiary political strategy in contexts of institutional upheaval.
Journal of International Management, 26 (2).
ISSN 1075-4253
Sallai, Dorottya and Schnyder, Gerhard (2020) What is “authoritarian” about authoritarian capitalism?
The dual erosion of the private-public divide in state-dominated business systems.
Business and Society Review.
ISSN 0045-3609
Sallai, Dorottya (2013) European union lobbying and the golden cage of post-socialist network capitalism in Hungary.
Journal of Common Market Studies, 51 (5).
948-964.
ISSN 0021-9886
Book Sections :
Sallai, Dorottya (2023) Populists in power: the impact on interest representation and firm-level nonmarket strategies.
In: Feldmann, Magnus and Morgan, Glenn, (eds.) Business and Populism: The Odd Couple?
Oxford University Press, 285 – 306.
ISBN 9780192894335
Sallai, Dorottya (2022) Professional large group mentoring as an alternative to the ‘traditional’ personal tutoring system.
In: Lochtie, Dave, Stork, Andrew and Walker, Ben W., (eds.) The Higher Education Personal Tutor’s and Advisor’s Companion: Translating Theory into Practice to Improve Student Success.
Critical Publishing, St Albans, UK, 135 - 141.
ISBN 9781913453459
Sallai, Dorottya (2019) Non-market strategies within conflicting institutional pressures: The case of western multinationals in a post-socialist context.
In: Shirodkar, Vikrant, Strange, Roger and McGuire, Steven, (eds.) Non-Market Strategies in International Business: how MNEs capture value through their political, social and environmental strategies.
The Academy of International Business.
Springer Nature (Firm), Cham, pp.
19-39.
ISBN 9783030350741
AI Leadership & Strategy; Organisational Change & Transformation; Innovative Education; Lobbying; Management Education; Capitalism; Populism ; Policy

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/PBS/People/Professor-Elizabeth-Stokoe:
Twitter
Elizabeth Stokoe HonFBPsS joined the Department of Psychological and Behavioural Science in January 2023.
Prior to this, she was Professor of Social Interaction in the Discourse and Rhetoric Group at Loughborough University where she was also Associate Pro Vice-Chancellor for REF2021.
She has been Academic Director of Impact at LSE since January 2024.
Elizabeth’s research is in conversation analysis, focused on understanding how social interaction works in settings from first dates to medicine and healthcare; from mediation to police crisis negotiation and emergency service calls, and from sales encounters to interaction in “SaaS” (Software as a Service) platforms and conversational user interfaces.
The common thread in her work is the identification of effective and less effective interactional practices and their impact on the outcome of conversational encounters.
She has published over 160 research outputs, including several co-authored books ( Discourse and Identity , 2006, Conversation and Gender , 2011, Discursive Psychology: Classic and Contemporary Issues , 2016; Crisis Talk: Negotiating with Individuals in Crisis , 2022).
Her new co-authored book is Categories in Social Interaction (Routledge, 2025) co-authored with Dr Kevin Whitehead and Prof Geoff Raymond (both UCSB).
Elizabeth is passionate about translating her research in conversation analysis for wider audiences and she has presented and discussed her research at many science festivals and events including at Microsoft , Google, TED , Latitude Festival, and The Royal Institution , and featured on BBC Radio 4’s “ The Life Scientific ” and “ Word of Mouth ." Her book, Talk: The Science of Conversation , was published in 2018 (Little, Brown).
Since 2008, she has worked extensively with external partners across public, third, and private sectors, and been a industry fellow at Typeform and Deployed .
She developed ‘ CARM’ , a research-based training tool, which was awarded a Wired Innovation Fellowship .
During the Covid-19 pandemic, she participated in the Policing and Security subgroup of the Independent Scientific Pandemic Insights Group on Behaviours (SPI-B), which provided independent, expert behavioural science advice to the Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (SAGE).
She is also a member of Independent SAGE’s behaviour group.
Elizabeth’s current projects include bringing conversation analysis to the world of conversation design, and she has just started work on a new book with Cathy Pearl (Google conversation design lead) and Dr Saul Albert (Loughborough University) and a series of expert classes for the Conversation Design Institute .
She is also a co-investigator on the £10M ESRC Centre for Early Mathematics Learning launched in June 2022 and led by Prof Camilla Gilmore at Loughborough University.
Awards
Conversation analysis ; social interaction ; human communication ; membership categorization ; communication training ; conversation design ; science communication
Author(s) Kevin A.
Whitehead, Elizabeth Stokoe, Geoffrey Raymond
ISSN/ISBN ISBN 9780367375294
Author(s) Elizabeth Stokoe, Rein Ove Sikveland
Author(s) Elizabeth Stokoe, Geoffrey Raymond, Kevin A.
Whitehead
Author(s) Elizabeth Stokoe, Saul Albert, Hendrik Buschmeier, Wyke Stommel

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/cpnss/people/jonathan-birch:
Jonathan Birch is a Professor in LSE's Department of Philosophy, Logic and Scientific Method, specializing in  the philosophy of the biological sciences.
He is working on evolution of social behaviour, the evolution of norms, animal sentience, and the relation between sentience and welfare.
Philosophy of Science ; Philosophy of Biology ; Philosophy of Cognitive Science
Author(s) Jonathan Birch

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/media-and-communications/people/academic-staff/seeta-pena-gangadharan:
Dr Seeta Peña Gangadharan is Associate Professor in the Department of Media and Communications at LSE, where she also serves as Deputy Head of Department (Research) and Programme Director for the MSc Media and Communications (Governance) .
Her work focuses on  inclusion, exclusion, and marginalization, as well as questions around democracy, social justice, and technological governance.
She currently co-leads two projects: Our Data Bodies, which examines the impact of data collection and data-driven technologies on members of marginalized communities in the United States, and Justice, Equity, and Technology, which explores the impacts of data-driven technologies and infrastructures on European civil society.
She is also a visiting scholar in the School of Media Studies at The New School, Affiliated Fellow of Yale Law School’s Information Society Project, and Affiliate Fellow of Data & Society Research Institute.
Before joining the Department in 2015, Seeta was Senior Research Fellow at New America’s Open Technology Institute, addressing policies and practices related to digital inclusion, privacy, and “big data.” Before OTI, she was a Postdoctoral Associate in Law and MacArthur Fellow at Yale Law School’s Information Society Project.
She received her PhD from Stanford University and holds an MSc from the Department of Media and Communications at the London School of Economics and Political Science.
Seeta’s research has been supported by grants from Digital Trust Foundation, Institute of Museum and Library Services, Ford Foundation, Open Society Foundations, Stanford University’s Center on Philanthropy and Civil Society, and U.S.
Department of Commerce’s Broadband Technology Opportunities Program.
communication rights ; communication technologies ; data profiling ; data and discrimination ; democratic communication ; digital inclusion ; media justice ; privacy ; public participation in communication and technology policymaking ; social justice ; surveillance
Dr Gangadharan's current research projects include:
Past work includes:
Dr Gangadharan's research privileges questions of justice and injustice in the governance of technology.
Her interests lie at the intersection of policy, civil society, and technological development.
Her approach to research is grounded in democratic theories and critical studies of technology and policy.
It is also informed by a history of media activism and policy advocacy aimed at broadening meaningful access to communication technology.
Her work addresses both policies and policymaking processes that relate to inclusion and exclusion in democracy, and she considers questions of privacy, surveillance, data profiling, and historically marginalized communities.
Drawing attention to the ‘downsides of digital inclusion’, Dr Gangadharan’s work scrutinizes the adequacy of digital inclusion policy in addressing privacy and surveillance of marginalized communities.
This research includes both historical and contemporary examination of the potential exclusionary impacts of being digitally connected.
While this research does not deny the value of improving access to broadband infrastructure and citizens’ and consumers’ digital literacy or internet and computer skills and know-how, it draws greater attention to the importance of privacy and data protection for meaningful inclusion in digital society.
Dr Gangadharan also examines the ‘downsides of digital inclusion’ in relation to opportunities and openings that digital exclusion may present.
Contrasted to scholarly and policy discourse on the problem of digital exclusion, she explores practices of self-exclusion from data-driven systems as technological refusal.
By refusing the terms and conditions of technological systems and the institutions and people behind them, individuals and groups or movements to which they belong exercise individual and collective agency.
Starting from the premise that ‘data are people’, Dr Gangadharan’s work brings marginality to the fore in the governance of statistical and automated computer systems.
She has examined such technologies differentially direct, nudge, or target groups, and exacerbate existing inequalities and injustices faced by marginalized communities.
Her research emphasizes the importance context sensitization and reflexivity in the development of new technologies and critiques the limitations of ethical frameworks intending to combat bias in algorithmic systems and artificial intelligence.
Dr Gangadharan maintains a longstanding interest in civil society, public participation, and technology policy.
Her PhD work, completed at Stanford University, investigated the politics of communication policymaking at the U.S.
Federal Communications Commission.
Her dissertation developed a deliberative model of participation in communication policymaking which argues that the legitimacy of policy outcomes results not only from inclusive forums inside a political system, but also from the translational support of civil society groups and media institutions that lie beyond political decision-making.
She also penned a short history of the nascent media justice movement in the United States, comparing it to media reform advocacy and exposing their differing theories of social change.
Dr Gangadharan convenes the postgraduate courses Media and Communication Governance and Technology and Justice .
She has also contributed lectures to team-taught postgraduate Media and Communications courses relating to theories and concepts ( MC408 / MC418 ) and research methodologies ( MC4M1 / MC4M2 ).
Dr Gangadharan is the 2020 winner of the LSE Excellence in Education Prize.
She is the 2019 runner-up and 2017 winner of  LSE Students' Union student-led teaching excellence award for innovative teaching.
More here .
Dr Gangadharan supervises doctoral researchers and welcomes applications from prospective students relating to her areas of research.
She currently supervises Vanessa Ciccone .

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/law/research/law-technology-society/ai-ethics-governance:
The AI, Ethics and Governance group represent research within the LSE Law, Technology and Society group at the cutting edge of law and technology.
The group represents a diverse range of interests from applied ethics and governance in medical research and technologies to the application of AI and machine learning in financial markets and financial instruments through to the implications of data profiling of adults and children to the general research of AI ethical and legal frameworks.
The group works hard to make their research accessible and relevant in policy circles.
With members acting as expert advisors and members of bodies including the British Medical Association and the Medical Research Council, the LawTech Delivery Panel and Regulatory Action Taskforce, the World Health Organisation, and the Superior Health Council of Belgium.
The AI, Ethics and Governance group provide regulator keynote speakers, expert witnesses and roundtable experts to global conferences, workshops and inquiries.
In the past three years members of the group have spoken to or at the Ministry of Justice, the High Court and the Judicial College, the Royal Institution, the Annual ICA Conference, and the WHO Action Network on Reducing Marketing Pressure on Children.
In addition, Professor Murray acted as the Special Advisor to the House of Lords Communications Committee for the duration of its inquiry into internet regulation and governance and to the Ministry of Commerce and Investment of Saudi Arabia on its project to reform e-commerce law in Saudi Arabia.
The group have published extensively in this field including leading books such as Professor Jackson’s Law and the Regulation of Medicines and Professor Murray’s Rethinking the Jurisprudence of Cyberspace as well as leading articles such as Dr.
Cutts’s Degenerate Contracts and Liberal Code and Dr.
Paech’s The Governance of Blockchain Financial Networks.
Currently Dr.
Cutts is working on a book on artificial intelligence and the theory of adjudication (Artificial Adjudication).
The group also contributes heavily to the LSE Law Policy Briefing Series including Professor Murray’s recent paper Rethinking Regulation for the Digital Environment and Professor Jackson’s paper Reforming the Statutory Storage Period for Frozen Eggs .
Professor Stephen Humphreys
Professor Emily Jackson
Professor Mark Lewis
Dr Luke McDonagh
Dr Andrew Scott

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/media-and-communications/polis/JournalismAI:
JournalismAI is a global initiative that empowers news organisations to use artificial intelligence responsibly.
We support innovation and capacity-building in news organisations to make the potential of AI more accessible and to counter inequalities in the global news media around AI.
JournalismAI is a project of Polis – the LSE's journalism think-tank – and is supported by the Google News Initiative.

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/DSI/Research/Projects/genial:
Context
The rise of Generative AI (GenAI) tools and their impact on teaching, learning, and assessment practices is currently a significant topic of discussion in higher education.
Since November 2022, when OpenAI introduced ChatGPT, its online conversational AI chatbot, educators and students have been challenged by the capabilities of these new tools, which include similar systems from rival tech companies such as Google’s Gemini, GitHub’s Copilot, Microsoft’s Copilot, and Anthropic’s Claude.
These tools provide personalised, instant help with various tasks such as summarising literature, brainstorming ideas, and writing code and text, although some limitations in transparency and accuracy might exist.
As educators, we saw the potential of these tools and wanted to consider how best to incorporate them into our teaching and assessments to support our students.
In order to do this most effectively, we set out to explore the practical applications of these tools to understand how they might specifically enhance programming skills and critical thinking.
We set out to fill a knowledge gap and obtain insights that could provide valuable direction in how we approach education in light of these new technologies.
Project
The objective of the study GENIAL (Generative AI Tools as a Catalyst for Learning) was to explore how university students in full-time undergraduate and postgraduate courses use popular GenAI tools in their learning and assessment.
The project initially launched as a small focus group initiative in June 2023, evaluating the efficacy of code generation tools.
Over the 2023–2024 academic year, as interest grew in the field, the initiative evolved into a multidisciplinary research project, investigating the learning behaviours of around 220 students in four undergraduate and three postgraduate courses, including quantitative and qualitative subjects.
The courses evaluated ran in the autumn and winter terms of 2023–2024 in the LSE Departments of Statistics, Management, and Public Policy and in the Data Science Institute.
We used various data collection methods to gather reliable and high-quality data.
During the first term we ran a survey at the end of, dedicated in-class activities, during which students were asked to work independently and to use the chatbots as an aid.
In the second term, our data collection was no longer restricted to the use of chatbots in class.
We expanded our data collection efforts to include surveys and focus groups, and every week, we requested participants to share chat logs related to their learning and participation in the course, both in and out of the classroom.
Furthermore, we obtained students’ assignment submissions and chat logs.
Findings
The project found that although GenAI tools can be a very helpful learning tool for some students, the growing over-reliance of HE students on these tools for learning and assessment risks circumventing rather than enhancing the learning process.
The biggest pedagogical challenge is that students may use the tools to replace their learning process and critical skills.
We argue that students may rely on GenAI differently for learning and for assessments, and that they tend to focus more on the output or performance than on the learning journey itself.
We also observed that some students use GenAI platforms as a substitute for learning rather than as a tool to enhance learning.
Our findings raise questions about how GenAI can be successfully integrated into the curriculum without jeopardising learning and led to the development of policy recommendations focusing on curriculum planning and assessment design so that educators can adapt to these challenges and incorporate GenAI as an aid to learning.
Outputs
Dorottya Sallai, Jonathan Cardoso-Silva, Marcos E.
Barreto, Francesca Panero,Ghita Berrada, and Sara Luxmoore.
“ Approach Generative AI Tools Proactively or Risk Bypassing the Learning Process in Higher Education ”, November 2024.
Dorottya Sallai, Jon Cardoso-Silva, Marcos Barreto, “ To improve their courses, educators should respond to how students actually use AI ” LSE Impact Blog, 22 May 2024.
Contribution to DigiCo’s FAQ Document: Unpacking the basics of AI in support of adult educators
Dr Marcos Barreto , Assistant Professor of Data Science (Education), Department of Statistics, LSE
Dr Jon Cardoso-Silva , Assistant Professor of Data Science (Education), Data Science Institute, LSE
Dr Casey Kearney , Assistant Professor, LSE School of Public Policy
Dr Dorottya Sallai , Associate Professor (Education) of Management, LSE Department of Management
Dr Ghita Berrada , Assistant Professor of Data Science (Education), LSE Data Science Institute
Dr Francesca Panero , Assistant Professor, LSE Statistics
Leonard Hinckeldey , Research Assistant, MSc Applied Social Data Science (2022/23), LSE
Sara Luxmoore , Research Assistant, MSc Applied Social Data Science (2022), LSE
Ananya Reddi , Research Assistant, MSc Data Science (2022/23), LSE
Professor Wicher Bergsma , Department of Statistics, LSE
Mark Baltovic , Senior Academic Developer, Eden Centre, LSE
Dr Anica Kostic , LSE Fellow, Department of Statistics, LSE
Dr Jenni Carr , Senior Academic Developer, Eden Centre, LSE
Dr Marina Franchi , Senior Academic Developer, Eden Centre, LSE
Jeni Brown , Head, Digital Skills Lab, LSE
Michael Wiemers , Digital Skills Lab, LSE

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/DSI/AI/AI-Research:
LSE encourages the responsible and ethical use of Generative AI to support and enhance research

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/online-learning/courses/ethics-of-ai-masterclass:
As artificial intelligence (AI) adoption becomes more commonplace, so do questions of the ethics surrounding the design and implementation of it.
In order to critically assess the implications of AI and manage its diverse impacts, it is essential to gain a comprehensive overview of key ethical questions raised by the effects of AI on the state, business, and society.
The Ethics of AI three-week online masterclass examines the ethical challenges and opportunities presented by AI technologies.
Throughout this course, you’ll apply moral concepts – such as inequality, fairness, and transparency – to real-world situations to better understand and resolve ethical dilemmas.
Gain insight into how AI technologies can be used in a variety of business contexts, including hiring and employee supervision, and learn what this might mean for issues such as discrimination and power imbalances in your organisation.
With a focus on developing a practical skill set for immediate application, benefit from LSE’s world-renowned teaching, faculty, and research as you engage in this topical, integral discussion.
You’ll also have the opportunity to participate in live sessions with participants and facilitators, take part in practical activities investigating the ethical tensions inherent in AI, and join a global network of like-minded peers.
This online masterclass is 3 weeks with a time commitment of 6-8 hours per week.
" There are many impactful learnings drawn from the course.
The course combined the need for both moral and causal inference in the effort to tackle bias and inequality, and the need for regulation of AI so it is used in a fair way and to ensure the harmful effects are minimised in favour of positive impact of AI to people’s lives.
Ivona Vickovic , Technical Manager, Canon Medical Research Europe
" “My overall impression of the content was very good.
It made me think about a lot of what I have been struggling with regards to AI and the advances of AI.
The online learning experience benefited me a lot, with a demanding full-time job and family at home, it was the perfect balance of allowing me to fit this in and tend to my other duties.
I feel completing the course has given me more of a balanced view on the positives and negatives of AI and I will be taking this knowledge and using it wisely as I continue my journey into AI.
Daniel Cuthbert , Security Researcher
" The course was well-structured and easy to follow.
Listening to Kate and Thomas was an amazing experience as each bought into the course tremendous valuable insights through their expertise.
The most significant takeaway was understanding the challenges of aligning of ethical and moral values within the AI systems in a pluralistic society.
Overall, brilliant and a must-do to get a grasp on how futuristic AI systems will be built and evaluated.
Meghana Kshirsagar , Research Fellow, University of Limerick
LSE Online builds on our 125 year tradition of exploring the interconnected, multidisciplinary nature of our world that shape society and business globally.
Since our inception in 1895, LSE has been a pioneer in providing courses for professional development.
Our founding commitment is to understand the causes of things for the betterment of society.
Never has this been a more important goal than in these times of unparalleled change.
We provide you with the insights and skills to think critically and independently.
To make the connections, see the greater picture.
To shape the future by understanding today.
Whatever stage you are in your life and career.
Wherever you are in the world.
This online masterclass is designed by LSE faculty, with contributions from guest speakers, who will share their experience and in-depth knowledge with you throughout the course.
Dr Kate Vredenburgh
Course Convenor and Assistant Professor, Philosophy, Logic and Scientific Method
Dr Thomas Ferretti
Course Contributor; Fellow, Philosophy, Logic and Scientific Method
The Department of Philosophy, Logic and Scientific Method at LSE was founded by Professor Sir Karl Popper in 1946, and remains internationally renowned for a type of philosophy that is both continuous with the sciences and socially relevant.
Tuition fees: £550
Upon successful completion of the course, you will receive an official digital badge from the London School of Economics and Political Science.
There are no prerequisites for this course.
LSE’s Dr Thomas Ferretti considers ethical and political issues raised by the ongoing revolution in artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML).

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/DSI/Turing-University-Network:
Founded by the Alan Turing Institute in 2023, the network provides a structure for UK universities to facilitate better connections and collaboration with one another and showcase their data science/AI activity.
It also provides universities and their staff and students with opportunities to engage with various Turing Institute departments and teams.
The network is a key component of the Turing Institute's Strategy aimed at changing the world for the better with data science and AI.
The Alan Turing Institute , headquartered in the British Library, London, was created as the national institute for data science in 2015.
In 2017, as a result of a government recommendation, artificial intelligence was added to their remit.
The institute’s purpose is to make the UK the best place in the world for data science and AI research, collaboration, and business.
The Turing has three ambitious goals:
The Data Science Institute manages the relationship with the Alan Turing Institute on behalf of the LSE.
We send out a weekly newsletter to share news and opportunities from the Turing institute and its university network with LSE academics and PhD students.
This relationship is overseen by:
Turing Academic Liaison Professor Zoltán Szabó , Professor of Data Science, LSE Department of Statistics DSI.Turing.Academic@lse.ac.uk .
Turing Administrative Liaison Emily Cruz , Communications and Events Manager at the DSI DSI.Turing.Admin@lse.ac.uk .
Turing University Network Newsletter
If you are a member of staff or a PhD student at LSE and would like to receive regular updates regarding events, news, funding calls and opportunities from the Alan Turing Institute and other universities in the Turing University Network please send an email to Emily Cruz on DSI.Turing.Admin@lse.ac.uk .
Alan Turning Institute Listings
If you are a member of LSE Staff and are organising seminars, events, symposia or seminars that you would like listed on the ATI website and included in their weekly newsletter please email Emily Cruz on DSI.Turing.Admin@lse.ac.uk .
Turing organise and host a range of talks, workshops, seminars and conferences which colleagues can register to attend and / or participate in.
The events are designed to teach, engage, and inspire people with all levels of data science and artificial intelligence experience.
A full listing of events is available on the Turing website .
Many of Turing’s events are also recorded and you can browse the video archive on their YouTube channel .

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/Research/LSE-iQ/About/Meet-the-team:
As LSE’s flagship podcast, we’ve been on a mission since our launch in 2017 to show the importance of the social sciences in understanding today’s most pressing issues.
Each episode takes one intelligent question – the ‘iQ’ of our name – and looks at it from different expert perspectives.
We might bring together a historian and a lawyer, an anthropologist and a psychologist, or a management expert and a social entrepreneur to explore a topic.
We also connect academic research with the real world by speaking to ordinary people about how the issues we’re exploring affect their lives.
We produce around eight episodes, between September and May, following LSE’s academic year.
We’re a small team made up of people from the Film and Audio and Media Relations teams in LSE’s Communications Division.
We’re also supported by our colleagues in the Design Unit and the Social Media team.
Our work has earned us an Independent Podcast Award (2024) and a Guardian Education Award (2018), as well as a nomination for a British Podcast Award (2022).
We also won two awards at the HEIST Awards for marketing innovation in further and higher education (2019).
Want to get in touch?
Drop us an email at media.relations@lse.ac.uk
LSE iQ team

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/ideas/projects/space-policy:
This project focuses on key trends, developments, and challenges related to outer space activities with the aim to examine the interplay between space policy and international relations.
The LSE IDEAS Space Policy project is home to Space Policy: An International Journal and hosts public lectures and events at LSE.
From the growing militarisation and commercialisation of space activities to new spacefaring nations and pressing challenges such as space debris, the intersection between space policy and international relations has become more important than ever.
Examining the domestic and external influences that shape space policy and strategies and their implications for the study and conduct of international relations from a global perspective can help us to understand better the dynamic interaction between space technology and global order as well as enhance space policy decision making.
To this end, LSE IDEAS Space Policy seeks to bring together academics and practitioners to share insights into the evolving relationship between space policy and international politics with the aim to inform space policy decision making and the public.
The Changing Economy of Space Application and Exploration: A Catalyst for International Cooperation?
8 May, 2025 This paper shows how the economic evolution of space activities corresponds to changes within international relations, especially geopolitical tensions.
Climate change policy as a guide for orbital debris policy 4 April, 2023
Orbital pollution, also known as space debris, is one of the most important global challenges in space.
Although some progress has been made within the existing voluntary policy framework, more comprehensive regulations are still needed to effectively address this issue and prevent further accumulation of debris in orbit.
In this commentary, Professor Nodir Adilov, Purdue University Fort Wayne, Dr.
Peter Alexander, Federal Communications Commission, and Professor Brendan Cunningham, Eastern Connecticut State University, discuss a policy proposal for dealing with orbital debris that can build on climate change policy.
Understanding Growth in the Global Space Situational Awareness Sector 3 September, 2022
Global trends in partnerships and data exchanges will affect global SSA capabilities overall, and ultimately, the sustainability of the space environment for all users.
Dr Mariel Borowitz presents a model for better understanding of the global SSA sector.
Space Traffic Management: A Brief History 29 June, 2022
Dr Quentin Verspieren explores how the idea of regulating space traffic has been present and formalised since the early beginnings of space law, starting in the 1930s, and becoming a widely debated topic in the following years.
Increasing concerns about space traffic should be explained by the actual growth of space traffic as well as the emergence of the very closely related issue of space debris mitigation.
Australia's Space Journey: Never lost, now charting a new course 30 May, 2022
In this commentary on Australia's space programme, Dr Brett Biddington argues that happenstance and incrementalism are the defining factors of its journey, and that external pressures, more than internal vision and understanding, have forced a succession of Australian Governments to pay increasing public attention to space matters.
Cyberattacks on Satellites: An Underestimated Political Threat 5 May, 2022
While ransomware is mainly distributed via terrestrial networks, the threat of cyberattacks on satellite systems has become increasingly real.
In this piece, Professor Walter Peeters of the International Space University explores the hypothetical aftermath of a complete shutdown of the global satellite network system, and argues for the possibility of such a shutdown to be taken more seriously as a political threat.
The Growth of Non-governmental Space Sector in China [ coming soon ]
Space Expansionism, Planetary Geopolitics, and the Future of Space Policy : From the commercialisation and militarisation of space activities to calls for space colonisation, space advocates have been influential in pushing for the expansion of human activities in outer space.
The lecture examines these space activities from a critical perspective, highlighting that one of the most important consequences of space activities is the increasing likelihood of nuclear war.
It also asks whether space expansionism poses multiple threats to humanity at a time when our focus should be on how we can utilise space assets for solving Earth problems.
The international politics of outer space | LSE Research 26 Sept, 2023
Prof Chris Alden and Dr Dimitrios Stroikos discuss the international politics of outer space.
With a growing number of state and non-state actors that are involved in space activities, there is a lot of debate around the democratisation of space, regulation of activities in space (and lack thereof), the role of science is space activities as well as space debris and its implications for the long-term sustainability of space activities.
Dr Dimitrios Stroikos is Head of the Space Policy Project
Molly Prochaska is Project Coordinator of the Space Policy Project

New sentences found on https://lse.ac.uk/research/research-for-the-world/politics/india-space-programme:
On 14 July 2023, the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) launched a rocket from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre in Sriharikota in southern India that sent India’s third lunar exploration mission, Chandrayaan-3 , consisting of a propulsion module, a lander and a rover.
The lander touched down on the surface of the moon on 23 August 2023, making India the fourth country in the world, after the United States, the Soviet Union and China, to carry out a soft landing on the moon.
According to ISRO , the three main goals of the mission were: 1) achieving a soft landing on the lunar surface; 2) realising rover roving on the lunar terrain; and 3) carrying out in-situ experiments.
After landing near the south pole region, Chandrayaan-3’s lander deployed a rover to perform in-situ analysis of the lunar surface.
As outlined by ISRO, the lander and the rover have scientific payloads to explore the lunar surface, collect data and perform various experiments.
From a scientific point of view, such a mission is important because the south pole region remains underexplored, and thus has the potential for scientific discoveries .
For example, it is believed that this region of the moon might contain deposits of ice water.
The possibility of the presence of ice water on the moon has already attracted the interest of other space agencies and private companies, especially since the extraction and use of water from the moon could support the feasibility of prolonged lunar missions and serve as a potential stepping stone towards Mars and other missions venturing deeper in space.
But while the possibilities of such discoveries hold great potential for whichever nation makes them and can contribute to the advancement of scientific knowledge, as we shall see, scientific research is just one of the reasons driving India’s vigorous space endeavour.
Science alone is not usually sufficient to explain such activities.
Broader political considerations and strategic dynamics may be equally or even more important drivers behind India’s forays in space and the Chandrayaan programme in particular.
More specifically, Chandrayaan-3 is not India’s first attempt at soft landing on the moon.
It is essentially a follow-up mission to Chandrayaan-2 , which was launched in July 2019 and was designed to explore the lunar surface near the south pole.
Chandrayaan-2 consisted of an orbiter, a lander and a rover, but it was considered a partial success .
Although the lander was successfully separated from the orbiter, due to a communication breakdown it had a hard landing 500 metres from the designated site on the lunar surface in September 2019.
However, since 2019 the orbiter has continued to operate successfully, providing valuable data about the moon, and it will also support the latest mission.
Chandrayaan-3 also comes roughly 15 years after India’s first lunar exploration mission, Chandrayaan-1 , which was launched in October 2008 with the goal of mapping the lunar surface.
Apart from five Indian payloads, the spacecraft carried instruments from NASA, British, German and Swedish research institutes (through the European Space Agency), and Bulgaria.
As such, the mission was also an example of international scientific cooperation.
Eventually, Chandrayaan-1 encountered technical hurdles when ISRO lost communication with the spacecraft and the mission had to end prematurely.
Still, it was considered a remarkable success, not least because data gathered from one of the NASA instruments carried on the Chandrayaan-1 mission found clear evidence of water molecules on the moon.
The international politics of outer space
Chris Alden and Dimitrios Stroikos explore the complexities around the international politics of space, addressing topics such as: the challenges underpinning the international politics of space, state and non-state engagement in space activities.
Despite the fact that India has one of the world’s oldest space programmes, established in the early 1960s, the focus has been on the use of space for socio-economic development .
To this end, priority was given to the development of space applications, such as communications, remote sending and meteorology, that could provide tangible practical benefits tailored to the needs of a developing and large country.
This developmental rationale has been associated with the vision of Dr Vikram Sarabhai , who is considered the ‘‘father’’ of India’s space programme and was one of the most influential and respected scientists in post-independence India.
Although Sarabhai was a keen supporter of the use of space technology as a way of leapfrogging some of the stages of social and economic development, he was famously against highly visible space stunts for the sake of prestige and news headlines that offered little in economic and social terms.
It was against this backdrop that Chandrayaan-1, India’s first ever space exploration mission, signalled a shift towards highly visible space projects, which seemed to be at odds with India’s traditional developmental rationale.
Further reflecting this reorientation of India’s space effort, in addition to the Chandrayaan lunar programme, other notable examples include the 2013 Mars Orbiter Mission (MOM) , also called Mangalyaan , and plans for India’s first human spaceflight mission, the Gaganyaan programme , which is targeted to be launched within the next few years.
As far as India is concerned, the recent focus on space exploration can largely be seen as a response to China’s emergence as a great space power.
What explains this change in India’s space programme?
To be sure, the potential scientific benefits of lunar missions can be significant.
What is more, I have long argued that scientific internationalism has been a key feature of space activities from the beginning of the Space Age.
However, science alone is not usually sufficient to explain such activities.
A number of observations are worth making here.
First, it is useful to recognise from the outset that international imperatives have rendered space a complex domain of international relations amid a surge of interest in the use of space for military, civilian and commercial purposes.
As far as India is concerned, the recent focus on space exploration can largely be seen as a response to China’s emergence as a great space power , manifested not only in a series of remarkable Chinese space achievements, but also in the ways in which Beijing uses its space programme as a foreign policy and diplomacy tool .
While India’s competition with China in space increasingly involves a military component , high-profile exploration projects are part of the contest for leadership , influence and soft power in Asia, contributing to the notion of an Asian space race .
Highly visible technoscientific projects serve as markers of power, status and modernity, a practice rooted in the 19th century.
Second, and related to the previous point, underlying India’s interest in lunar exploration is its great power aspirations .
Highly visible technoscientific projects serve as markers of power, status and modernity, a practice rooted in the 19th century when technoscientific advancement emerged as a standard of “civilisation” demarcating the “society of civilised states” from non-European societies through a “techno-scientific orientalist” discourse.
In this way, the space programme can be understood as a powerful symbol of postcolonial India’s modernity, statehood, and national prestige .
From this perspective, the pursuit of the Chandrayaan lunar programme is part of India’s effort to climb up the ladder to the top tier of the hierarchical global space order and have a bigger “seat at the table’’ of space affairs.
The role of domestic politics should also be acknowledged.
For example, India’s space programme is an important source of national pride and prestige, and thus Indian leaders, including the current Prime Minister Narendra Modi, are keen to leverage the country's achievements in space to bolster the legitimacy of their governments whenever an opportunity arises.
At the same time, powerful institutions, such as ISRO, have their own organisational and bureaucratic interests that compel them to push for highly visible projects to gain political approval.
Finally, apart from foreign policy and military spin-offs due to the inherent dual-use nature of space technology, Chandrayaan-3 will help to inculcate and attract young talent in space science and showcase India’s vigorous private space sector , as this is the first time that ISRO has partnered in a major mission with the private space industry.
Consequently, and given the technical problems experienced by India's previous lunar mission, the stakes for Chandrayaan-3 could not be higher.
Regardless of the outcome of Chandrayaan-3, however, the success of India’s lunar programme hinges on more than simply scientific gains, encompassing broader political and strategic considerations that will continue to animate India’s space ambitions.
" International Relations and Outer Space " by Dr Dimitrios Stroikos is published by the Oxford Research Encyclopedia of International Studies.
Sign up to receive our newsletter: a bi-monthly digest of the latest social science research articles, podcasts and videos from LSE
LSE Fellow, Department of International Relations, LSE
Dr Dimitrios Stroikos is an LSE Fellow in the Department of International Relations at LSE and Head of the Space Policy Programme at LSE IDEAS.
He is also the Editor-in-chief of Space Policy: an International Journal, hosted by LSE IDEAS.
13 Aug 2024 • 4 min read
4 Jan 2024 • 7 min read
10 Oct 2023 • 6 min read