# Site: https://www.mdx.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 494
# --------

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk:
Call us now: 020 8411 6565
London’s No.
1 University of the Year (Whatuni Student Choice Awards 2025)
Explore Clearing
Join us to explore our specialist facilities on Sunday 12 October or Saturday 29 November
Join us on 9 September to see the campus and speak to our postgraduates
Take a guided tour with a student ambassador
We’re 1st in London, 2nd in the UK for our teaching quality, support and facilities (Whatuni Student Choice Awards 2025)
Our career-focused courses with real world experience are the best in the UK (Uni Compare Rankings 2026)
Our campus and resources are ranked the best in the UK (Whatuni Student Choice Awards 2025)
13 August 2025
30 July 2025
25 July 2025
Middlesex University, The Burroughs, Hendon, London NW4 4BT

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/london-campus:
Creative, ambitious, diverse.
We’re Londoners through and through.
Become part of a community of over 15,000 students and 1,700 staff at our north London campus, into which we have invested over £200m.
West Stand at StoneX Stadium – £24m invested to build a high-tech training centre.
The Grove Atrium – discover exhibitions, art installations and live performances.
Professional standard facilities for arts and creative industries, business, health and education, law, science and technology.
Hatchcroft building – £36m laboratories home to our science research and teaching.
The Quad – one of our students’ favourite social spots on campus which is flooded with natural light and the perfect place to relax.
Choose between living in halls of residence, renting locally or living at home and commuting to campus.
We'll help you find the option that's right for you.
Think about how you like to live, study, relax and socialise.
Identify what's most important for you - find the right living space for you .
Thinking of visiting our campus?
View London campus map (PDF)
Find an undergraduate or postgraduate course that’s right for you at our London campus.
Consider studying abroad, on our exchange programme to improve your employability skills and experience life-changing opportunities.
Applying as an international student is a quick and easy process, and we’re here to help you each step of the way.
Get started.
Be part of our culturally and internationally diverse community.
Explore our facilities, events and much more.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/dubai-campus:
A hub for possibility, innovation and big dreams.
Middlesex Dubai has been leading the way since 2005.
Join one of our many undergraduate or postgraduate degrees and discover everything Dubai has to offer.
Over 5,600 students from more than 120+ nationalities.
The largest KHDA university in Dubai for total student enrolments, according to the latest KHDA Open Data released in May 2024.
The first and only university in Dubai to offer a face-to-face LLB (British Qualifying Law) Degree.
Classrooms equipped for hybrid learning, labs for practical learning and an exciting student recreation centre MDX Social Hub.
As well as having all the advantages associated with being a British university, Dubai campus students can also benefit from studying in the heart of the city.
Our primary campus is located in Dubai Knowledge Park, occupying high-tech classrooms and study areas across three buildings.
Our second campus is located in Dubai International Academic City, with state-of-the-art facilities, learning labs and independent study spaces.
For more information about the programmes and the range of grants available visit Middlesex University Dubai .
Study at either of our two campuses and gain professional qualifications to get you ready for the modern world.
We can’t wait to welcome you to our community!
Apply today to begin your university journey with us in Dubai.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/mauritius-campus:
Get a London education from the sun-soaked island of Mauritius.
Our courses in Mauritius match the same high standards as our London courses.
These standards earned us the highest possible endorsement from the UK's Quality Assurance Agency for Higher Education.
Our sports complex includes an Olympic-sized swimming pool, a gym, as well as football and rugby pitches
Since 2010, we’ve offered undergraduate and postgraduate courses in accounting and finance, advertising and media, business, education, and more
Student House is our social space designed for eating, drinking and catching up with friends
Open since 2017, this campus is home to lecture theatres and labs for biodiversity and psychology
By bus, neighbouring town Quatre Bornes is just 20 minutes away; the nearest beach, Flic en Flic, is just 45 minutes
Our undergraduate and postgraduate courses are designed to empower students to excel in a global market with the skills to excellence in their fields.
Apply today to begin your university journey with us in Mauritius.
Get prepped for a blend of study and awesome social experiences.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study:
A Future That's Yours
Everyone is welcome at Middlesex.
Our mission is to allow ambitious students to achieve their professional and personal goals.
Specialised facilities by subject area
Graduation day is a moment of celebration after many months and years of hard work and dedication.
It’s also the start of the next chapter of your journey in life.
Find out the essentials about student life at Middlesex
Explore our full range of courses to find the right match for your ambitions
Discover how Middlesex can help you achieve your career goals
Learn more about the real-life impact we make through our research

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/undergraduate:
Explore career-focused undergraduate degrees in London with real-world experience, expert teaching, and a diverse, inclusive community that supports your ambitions.
At Middlesex, we believe in your potential.
Our North London university is built around your ambitions.
We offer expert-led courses, tailored careers support, and a welcoming and inclusive campus community.
We celebrate your individuality, support your personal and professional growth, and equip you with the skills you need to pursue an exciting and successful career.
You are not just another student, you are part of our global community.
So, discover more about studying for your undergraduate degree at Middlesex.
Explore courses, student life, support services, career opportunities and much more.
Middlesex provides career-focused education, real-world experience, and personalised support to help you achieve your potential.
We are proud to be one of London’s top universities, and have been recognised as:
We get to know all our students, chat with them to hear about their experience.
We’re here to help you gain the confidence, industry connections, and skills you need to achieve your ambitions.
Discover more about Middlesex or chat to a student to learn more.
"From day one, I felt at home at Middlesex.
The welcoming community, diverse student life, and hands-on learning made my experience unforgettable.
I made amazing friends, joined clubs and sports teams, and got real career support from industry experts.
The teaching is practical and inspiring and provided me with much more than a degree, it’s a journey that’s set me up for success." Nathan, Computer Science Student 2025
Explore our Clearing hub to start your journey with Middlesex University.
Visiting a university Open Day is the best way to see if it feels like home.
Learn about tuition fees, scholarships, bursaries and student finance options available to support you during your studies.
University is more than just studying, it's about new experiences, friendships, and opportunities.
Further resources

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/postgraduate:
Our postgraduate courses have both general and course specific requirements.
We recognise academic achievement, work and other experience when we assess your application to make sure you make the most of studying here.
Our postgraduate courses are designed with your job in mind and connected to real life so you can achieve your career goals.
You’ll develop advanced, specialist skills, get practical experience and build networks to take you further in your career.
Why Middlesex for your master's
Research Degrees
Meet our academics and support staff, look around our outstanding campus and facilities and start your fast-track application to study here.
Check the progress of your postgraduate course application through our online applicant portal.
After you receive confirmation of your application, you can expect a decision in four to six weeks.
Once you've received an offer from us, you’re part of our community of students, researchers and academics.
Find out more about us and what you need to know when you’re choosing a postgraduate course.
Welcome to the Middlesex University virtual tour where our students show you their campus highlights and more.
Our distance learning programmes allow you to study with us no matter where you are around the world or what priorities you may have.
Studying at Middlesex University offers a dynamic and enriching experience.
We foster a global perspective and promote cross-cultural understanding.
Most of our courses start in September, but some courses also run in January.
View the the academic calendar to find out more about start dates.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses:
Postgraduate
Undergraduate
Postgraduate|CPD and short courses
CPD and short courses
Postgraduate|Research degrees

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/get-in-touch:
Have a question for us?
Here you can find the relevant contact details for a member of our staff who can help you.
Middlesex University The Burroughs Hendon London NW4 4BT
Directions to our London campus
How to visit our campus
Please note that Middlesex University's preferred way of receiving all correspondence is via email in line with our environmental policy.
All incoming post to Middlesex University is opened and scanned by our digital document handler, CDS, and then emailed to the recipient.
If you do not want your correspondence to Middlesex University processed in this way, please email the recipient directly.
Parcels, couriered items and recorded delivery items will not be opened or scanned by CDS.
Other items that will be opened by CDS but will not be scanned
If you have any questions at all, please fill in this contact form and we will respond to you as quickly as we are able.
Our admissions enquiries team is happy to answer all of your questions about Middlesex and can support you throughout the admissions process.
They are available to provide personalised advice, Monday to Friday, 9am to 5pm (except bank holidays, and Easter and Christmas vacations).
Call +44 (0)20 8411 5555
Ask a question
Live chat to an adviser
Request your prospectus
We have an international network of International Offices across the globe dedicated to advising and supporting international students on all aspects of their application to Middlesex.
Find your nearest International Office
You can also contact the London campus directly
If you are a current MDX student, contact the UniHelp team.
If you are an MDX graduate, please contact our Alumni Association team.
If you are interested in studying at our Dubai or Mauritius campuses, please contact them directly:
Dubai campus
Tel: +971 (0) 4 367 8100 Email: info@mdx.ac.ae
Mauritius campus
Tel: +230 403 6400 Email: admissions@mdx.ac.mu
Please contact our press office for all media enquiries.
For all other enquiries please contact the main University switchboard on:
Call +44 (0)20 8411 5000
Find out more

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/student-life:
We're just 20 minutes from central London, one of the world’s greatest student cities – with all the art, music, food, sport and nightlife you could want.
Start the adventure of a lifetime at a top campus, in one of the most exciting cities in the world.
You'll join students from 122 countries.
We'll help you settle in and support you from before you apply to after graduation.
Everything you need is here.
Try new things, gain new skills and make the most of your time at uni and in London.
We are a member of Advance HE's Race Equality Charter (REC)
Top 6 UK university in Times Higher Education Young University Rankings 2024
Our Middlesex Unitemps branch will help you find work that pays the London Living Wage and above.
We'll give you practical advice and support to help you balance your budget.
We have an active LGBTQ+ Network which is open to all LGBTQ+ students.
Want to chat to someone who can tell you how it really is?
Connect with one of our student ambassadors.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation:
Find your place, find your perfect space.
Find the right place for you.
Identify what's most important for you.
Here are all your options.
This is our most popular choice for first-year students.
You’ll live in a building with other Middlesex students, with your own bedroom and shared facilities.
There are residents' assistants on-site, 24/7 security and full maintenance support.
And, it's the perfect way to build a community and find new friends.
We'll offer you a room that works for you - from ensuring it is wheelchair-accessible to including adapted fire alarms if you have a hearing issue.
Our Disability and Dyslexia team are here to help them.
If you have any questions, email the Disability Team: disability@mdx.ac.uk
You can save money, stay close to friends and relatives, look after your children or other family members, and still have an amazing Middlesex experience while living at home .
Opting for renting in the private sector is also an option during your studies.
This option offers more independence, and is a popular one amongst students moving with their families and returning students who have previously lived in halls.
Learn more about renting privately while at university
What you need to know about each of our halls of residence at Middlesex University London.
Find out how to apply for halls
Live opposite our Hendon campus in a quiet residential area.
Find out more and apply to Usher Hall
Live in a shared flat in one of our biggest halls of residence.
Find out more and apply to Platt Hall
A historic building home to a small, quiet hall of residence popular with mature students.
Find out more and apply to Writtle House
For all your questions, we’re here to help.
Call us on +44 (0)20 8411 6121 or email our accommodation team .
For hall tours and general accommodation updates, follow our Instagram page .

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/student-life/london-campus-life:
At our friendly, north London campus you'll find great study, sport and leisure facilities.
If you want to get involved, we have a very active and inclusive student's union; and there's plenty of events, clubs and societies to join.
Passionate about the environment?
Join one of our many eco initiatives from free bike hire to tending the bee hives on campus.
Off-campus, nearby Hendon is handy for shops, cafes, pubs and restaurants and the mighty metropolis, London, is just 20 minutes away by tube.
Life on Middlesex University Campus | Middlesex University.mp4
⏰Thu, 04/04 20:37PM · 2mins
On our campus it's really easy to make new friends, do new things such as playing sports or learn skills that can help you with your course or future career.
There's events going on during the day and the night so you do what you like.
If you want to come with me I'll show you some of the things that we can do here.
Thank you.
you
Have fun, improve your personal best, study at the library, get a part-time job or make a difference?
It's all possible on campus.
There's something different happening every day of the week.
Meet friends in the Quad, the snooker bar in MDX House or grab a bite and a coffee at Change Please, Greggs, Tortilla or Starbucks.
Check out our fab social spaces .
For five years and counting, according to QS Best Student Cities
Our London, Dubai, and Mauritius campuses offer transfers, exchange programmes with 100 universities, and internships abroad
London is one of the financial and creative capitals of the world, with 75% of Fortune 500 companies employing here
Live music, comedy, film screenings, quiz nights, balls.
There's something going on throughout the year from Freshers' Week to the end of term.
Visit Middlesex's Student's Union site (MDXSU)
Whether your interests are social, political or both; there's a club for you.
From debating societies to manga clubs, to campaigning on issues you care about.
We have over 85 clubs, societies and student groups .
Work out at the gym, join a football, basketball, tennis team or take one of our classes - from cross fit to aerial hoops.
Find out more about our superb sports and fitness facilities .
Your Students' Union (MDXSU) will help you get the best from Middlesex and make sure your voice is heard.
Last year we employed 747 students on campus.
Our specialist student support services will help with everything from financial advice to mental health support.
Our expert support team will do just that, help you excel at your course work.
Plus there are free 24 hour laptop loans, free printing and Wi-Fi to use on or on off campus.
Find out more about our library services .
"I felt, as one of the biggest cities in the world, my degree would be useful all over the world and my qualifications would be recognised in a lot of countries" 

Dariusz, Accounting and Finance student
"It is such as big open city so it genuinely feels like anything you might want to do, you could do." 

Carla, Film student
"It is a fantastic city to be a student.
It has something for every budget and you can be anything you want and no one will bat an eyelid.
And I've found London's cultural diversity very beneficial for my training." 

Keri Page, BSc Nursing (Child)
"One of my highlights was meeting people from different countries, different cultural or professional backgrounds…getting in touch and making friends with people from all around the world was just amazing.” 

Adela, Advertising, Public Relations and Branding
"I love that everything on campus is in one place, it makes it feel like a little community.
I feel at home here."

Faiza Yasmin Ahad, Psychology with Neuroscience
We're a ten minute walk to Hendon Central underground station and Hendon railway station.
There are direct links to Luton, St Albans, south west and north west London.
You can get a 16-25 railcard for national trains.
You can use the 125, 143, 183 and 326 serve the local area and some run 24 hours.
And there's a free shuttle bus to and from campus to our facilities at the StoneX stadium.
You can get travel discounts with the Student Oyster Card for London travel and use Transport For London (TFL) Journey Planner to plan your travel.
Our MDXFreewheelers is a cycle loan scheme to help you get around campus and the local area.
View the whole campus map (PDF) .
We're working hard to reduce our impact on the environment .
We signed the United Nations Sustainable Development Accord in 2021 and these are just some of our current initiatives:

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/student-life/living-costs-uni-on-a-budget:
We know that course fees and living expenses are an important investment.
We do everything we can to make uni affordable so you can make the most of your time as a student and hopefully worry less about your budget.
With the rising cost of living, we’ve made extra grants and bursaries available, we’re reducing the costs of studying and we’re offering personal financial advice.
Help with uni costs | Middlesex University.mp4
⏰Thu, 04/11 10:22AM · 2mins
At Middlesex, we want uni study to be affordable for everyone, and for you to have the money that you need to make the most of your time here as a student.
But we know the rising cost of living means that you might be facing tough times, so we are here to tell you how uni can help you.
We can help you get more money to cover the cost of uni, like travel, accommodation and childcare.
That includes finance that you don't have to pay back, like our living cost fund as well as scholarships and bursaries.
You can also apply for loans and grants from the government.
Getting your head around these different financial support options can be a challenge.
That's why our Student Welfare Advice team are here to explain what you're eligible for and give you a hand if you make an application.
Plus, MDXWorks can help you find jobs on and off campus that pay the London living wage and above.
The uni covers cost for day -to -day things that you need for your studies.
All this stuff is for free.
Laptop loans, e -books and e -journals, plus all the books on your reading list, specialist software, academic printing, online training with LinkedIn Learning.
There's also loads of free expert support for your studies, as well as for your emotional wellness and mental health, which is good to know if you're worried about money.
We can give you advice and tips to make student life more affordable, like your energy bills, free cheap and fresh food on campus, discounts on big brands and local shops, and paying less to get around London.
Plus, there is advice on budgeting too.
So if you're worried about money, take that first step to ask for support.
I can't wait.
The one time it came out right is...
Okay, alright.
Here is a guide to help you plan your finances while you're studying.
You should consider how much money is available to you, and then factor in everything on which you need or want to spend it.
You could break this down on a weekly or monthly basis to help you plan your expenditure.
Your costs will be higher or lower depending on your lifestyle and priorities, as well as your budget.
See our tips on how to plan your budget for more details.
Not counting tuition fees or visa costs (if relevant), you are likely to need around £1,200 per month to live comfortably if living away from home.
It is possible to get by on less than this by budgeting carefully and making savings.
How to make uni more affordable | Middlesex University.mp4
⏰Tue, 04/09 09:57AM · 2mins
It's completely normal to be worried about your finances while you're at uni, but don't worry there's a lot of ways to stay on top of your money as a student.
From funding your studies to earning extra cash, here's some top tips on how to make your own money go further.
Take out a Student Friendly Loan.
Tuition fees can seem a little confusing at first but most students take out loans to cover them.
You can also take a maintenance loan to cover your general expenses for things like living costs, travel and more.
And you won't need to pay these loans back until after you graduate and are earning above a certain amount.
Look out for scholarships.
Lots of universities offer scholarships or bursaries which are awards that you don't need to pay back.
They're awarded to students for different reasons such as personal circumstance or achievements and can be used to cover tuition fees or support you with your expenses.
The trick to applying for one is to do your research and make sure you take your time to apply.
Earn whilst you learn.
There's lots of opportunities to find paid work while you're studying.
Universities will have employability services to help you with things like writing a CV and applying for jobs.
You can also take up a student job like a Student Ambassador role on campus which means you can work around your timetable, get experience and earn some extra cash.
Make your money go further.
There's lots of ways you keep on track of your spending.
You could make the most of money by budgeting for the important things such as living costs, bills and essentials.
As a students you'll also get loads of discounts to take advantage jobs so you can save more money on your extras too.
You can get an NUS card to get good deals on things like days out and treats so, you CAN make the most of student life on a budget.
That's just a few ways that you can make studying at uni more affordable.
Check out our website for more information on what it's like to be a student at Middlesex University.
Thanks for watching and hopefully I'll see you around campus soon.
We can help you find ways to afford day-to-day living costs and give you chances to save on going out, shopping and wellbeing.
We’ll give you advice on how to make your money go further including:
Save Money on Food as a Student | Middlesex University.mp4
⏰Fri, 04/12 10:21AM · 1mins
How you can save money on food as a student.
We have to super affordable supermarkets less than 20 minutes from campus.
Aldi and Asta Asta has loads of fresh food and kitchen essentials.
Aldi is great for your weekly food shop.
Don't forget to check out the middle aisle.
To turn your groceries into cheap meals, check out Apps Like.
Yumly, where you can enter your preferences and it finds all kinds of recipes for you.
Yum Yum Or BBC Good Food which has loads of quick, healthy and affordable recipes.
We partner with Togutogo on campus where you can grab goodie bags full of discounted treats.
Twice a week, we have free food on campus.
Enjoy!
To help ensure uni is affordable, we’re stepping up and doing everything we can to support our new students.
That’s why we’ve launched the MDX Student Starter Kit and MDX Excellence Scholarship, available for students starting Middlesex University this year.
Available to undergraduates, each kit contains up to £1,000 worth of goodies, including:
Find out more about MDX Student Starter Kits
Awarded to undergraduate students who demonstrate outstanding academic potential.
The scholarship offers:
Find out more about the MDX Excellence Scholarship
We can cover your costs for the day-to-day things that you need to succeed in your studies.
These include:
We also provide free academic and study support with things like academic writing and maths, finding resources and IT.
There is also free support available for your emotional wellness and mental health, including individual counselling sessions.
"One of the biggest perks of studying at Middlesex University as a creative student is the free printing facilities and the fact that we have free access to the creative cloud software.
It saves a chunk of money that can be spent on other things such as materials.
Not only that depending on the creative course you are in you get set amount of money on your card e.g.
interior design £30 that can be spent on the uni store for materials and equipment towards projects."
Krisha Solanki, BA Interior Design with Foundation Year BA (Hons)
You can contact our welfare team either via online enquiry (use the subject Student Welfare Advice in the enquiry) or you can make a phone appointment (remember to include your phone number).
They will get you through any financial, practical or legal challenges that you may face while you're studying.
We can give advice on things like debt or housing costs and your rights.
For finance, which is open to everyone and can cover all kinds of costs you don't need to pay back, visit our Living Costs Fund.
You can apply for financial support for undergraduate and postgraduate studies from the government.
We also have scholarships, bursaries and awards available, based on your academic achievement and personal circumstances.
We can also help you get extra grants for student parents and benefits, including for housing.
Get in touch with our Student Support teams
We have hundreds of student jobs on campus that pay the London Living Wage and above.
Our Middlesex Unitemps site will help you find paid part-time work for the University in a variety of student jobs on- and off-campus including Student Ambassador roles.
There are lots of ways you can stay in control of your money as a student.
Keep up to date with useful tips and check out the Money Saving Expert resources for students and Save the Student site.
Watch this video to hear our top tips on looking after your finances and how you can make some extra cash while studying with us.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/student-life/student-support:
Well, my favorite thing about Middlesex is actually the amount of support that they give you.
We've got financial support, we've got religious and faith support, we've got neurodiversity and disability support, so much accessibility.
Then we've even got mental health and wellbeing.
I've got tons of experience with some of the counselors you've got at university and they've definitely helped me through my studies, you know, it gets a lot around deadline times, around exam times.
Middlesex has to offer a lot of student supports to its students.
So we have expert library supports, SLA schemes, one-to-one tutors and the library's open 24/7.Well the SLA scheme is amazing.I was an SLA myself and I help younger students with their assignments.
In terms of all the free stuff that you can get as a Middlesex student, there's free printing and there's also free laptop loans.
It's just great to know that you've got loads of support here at Middlesex University whenever you need it.
If you have a condition that affects your studies.
We can help.
Contact our Disability and Neurodiversity team .
Our specialist teams will support your emotional wellness and mental health.
You will be able to attend free individual counselling sessions, workshops and support groups.
We'll also give consultations and refer you to external services and other specialists for other types of care.
Send us an online enquiry via Unihelponline
We celebrate different religions with prayer rooms and places of worship on campus and in the local area.
Our religious student societies are also a good support network.
Education can be a challenging experience without the support of a family network.
We'll support students you if you are in care or estranged from your family.
Dogs Maisie and Winnie reduce stress and anxiety.
They can work with your department to find ways to help reduce your stress and anxiety.
They might come to your classes and there are weekly drop-in sessions where you can meet them.
"Middlesex University has been really good to me and I received support, library help, and free printing.
All of my tutors remained open and accessible which made it so much easier to approach them with problems or questions.
There have also been revision sessions and optional one to one meetings with the academics."
Faiza Yasmin Ahad, BSc Psychology with Neuroscience
If you're having financial, practical or legal difficulties during your studies, we can help.
We can help you plan your finances , including your loan, and answer questions about things like benefits and housing .
We offer scholarships, bursaries , cost reductions, free laptop loans, and job opportunities.
We help with financial, practical, and legal difficulties.
Contact us online or make a phone appointment .
Our Careers & Employability Service , MDXworks will help you secure placements, projects and networking opportunities.
Find out about discounts, free tools and resources, advice and support for managing your uni budget .
"They've got our backs, man.
They offer academic support, career advice, and even counselling and wellbeing services.
They want us to thrive in every aspect of our lives, not just academically.
It's like having a squad of cheerleaders cheering us on!
So, if you're looking for an epic university experience, Middlesex is the place to be."
Usman, Cyber Security and Digital Forensics BSc (Hons)
If you need help with your studies, we'll find the right service for you, whether it's connecting you with an academic or helping with English language, writing skills and subject-specific support.
Get expert advice from our helpdesk about things like searching for resources or how to use specialist software.
Book onto training sessions and one-to-one tutorials to learn skills like referencing at an advanced level.
Our Sheppard Library has over 350,000 books, 1,000 study areas and more than 600 computers.
Our team will give you expert advice and train you to use resources, software, and referencing techniques.
You’ll find student learning assistants - experienced students from the years above - in some of your sessions.
They have personal experience of learning your subject and understand any challenges.
You can join drop ins for support from our graduate academic assistants, who also studied your subject at Middlesex, and who work alongside staff.
Improve your English with language teaching and courses before you start.
We will support you with free workshops and one-to-one tutorials with your personal tutor.
Our specialist student services will support you with everything staying healthy to optimizing your happiness.
Talk to us and we'll do our best.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/student-life/london-campus-life/what-to-do-in-london:
You’ll love studying in London – whether you’re new to the city or not.
With iconic buildings, museums and art galleries, international sporting and world-class music and theatre events, vibrant local neighbourhoods, markets, amazing restaurants, bars and nightlife – there is something for everyone, right on your doorstep.
From nearby Hendon Central tube station, take the Northern line tube and explore London.
Enjoy live music everywhere – from small venues in nearby Camden to arena tours at Wembley or the O2.
Visit some of the finest art galleries in the world including the National Gallery, Tate, Tate Modern, the Royal Academy, Somerset House, and the Saatchi gallery.
There are 237 museums curating everything from dinosaurs to toys.
Many are free.
The best ones include the Natural History Museum, the Victoria and Albert Museum, the Science Museum, the Royal Museums Greenwich, including the Planetarium.
From nearby Islington to the West End and Soho, witness some of the world's finest actors, dancers, comedians, and singers in performance.
For global restaurants, street food markets, old-fashioned pubs, nightclubs, and quirky new bars - visit just about anywhere but especially Camden, Kings Cross, and Euston.
For football at Wembley and Arsenal, Cricket at Lord's and the Oval, Rugby with the Saracens at StoneX stadium, all the top international sporting events are a short ride away.
Hampstead Heath is 15 minutes away, Barnet Gate Nature Reserve is nearby, and a short tube trip will take you to Primrose Hill, Regent's Park, or Clapham Common.
Brent Cross is a ten-minute bus hop with Oxford, Regent, and Bond streets – just 30 minutes by train.
Here are some top spots you can visit in under just half an hour from campus on the Northern Line from Hendon Central station.
Hampstead Heath is 800 acres of park woodland and meadows away from the city, with wild swimming in the ponds.
You can visit the Hampstead Theatre, Everyman Cinema, Keats Museum or Kenwood House, eat out and shop in upmarket boutiques.
Enjoy breathtaking interiors and stunning world-class art collection at Kenwood House with paintings by Vermeer, Rembrandt, Gainsborough, Turner and Constable, walk through 112 acres of parkland.
Photo credit: Jack Calverley on Unsplash
Enjoy Camden's lively market with tourists, students, goths, and punks.
Grab a drink at the Hawley Arms or The Good Mixer, or play pool at The Camden Head.
There's music for everyone with live gigs at the Roundhouse, Dublin Castle, Camden Assembly, and Dingwall's, plus dancing at Koko, Proud, the Jazz Café or Electric Ballroom.
Two students at Camden market
Travel to other UK cities like Manchester Photo credit: Kevin Grieve on Unsplash
Stunning architecture and onward route to UK cities like Cambridge or take the Eurostar from St Pancras International to Paris, Brussels and Amsterdam.
Visit Harry Potter's platform 9 3/4 Photo credit: Sarah Ehlers on Unsplash
Check out food and drink stalls, global cuisine, pop-up shops and special events from Friday to Sunday.
Kings Cross Coal Drops Yard Photo credit: Samuel Regan-Asante on Unsplash
Walk from Kings Cross to Camden and then on to the Regent's canal and later to the spectacular Regent's Park.
Walk the canal path or enjoy a boat trip with a picnic Photo credit: Daniil Korbut on Unsplash
Experience the upmarket quirky vibe here with independent shops and vintage stores plus places for brunch, lunch and a drink in the evening.
Also, don't miss the art at the Estorick Collection or gigs at the Lexington – also an American whiskey bar.
For culture, visit The British Museum – the world's oldest national public museum.
Go shopping, and explore big-name stores on Oxford Street or smaller places around Carnaby Street.
For cheap eats, try Koya on Frith Street for Japanese noodles or Hummus Bros for healthy dishes.
For a fun night out, head to Soho or the Roxy for great prices for students.
The British Museum Photo credit: Ryan Stefan on Unsplash
See work by the world's best artists for free in the National Gallery, snap up a half-price theatre ticket or treat yourself to a night at the ballet or opera in the Royal Opera House.
Grab some dim sum in Chinatown and film premieres or cult films in Leicester Square.
Students visiting the National Gallery
Stroll the Southbank.
Watch the buskers, enjoy the views and indulge yourself at one of the many eateries and bars.
Visit the Southbank centre for music, dance and performance or Tate Modern for modern art.
Check out the view of the city from the top of the London Eye or catch a film at the BFI IMAX cinema.
Or just enjoy a picnic by the river and a fabulous sunset.
Spent a day on the River Thames Photo credit: Lucas Peng on Unsplash
Discover the essence of historical London at this iconic location.
Explore St Paul's Cathedral, the Tower of London, and Tower Bridge.
Treat yourself to exceptional steak at Hawksmoor Guildhall or enjoy breath taking views of the City at Vertigo 42.
Visit Tower Bridge
See Shakespeare's plays at the incredible Globe theatre on the River Thames.
Visit Borough Market for fabulous foodie delights and enjoy a pint at the traditional Victorian Royal Oak pub.
Visit Borough market Photo credit: Max van den Oetelaar on Unsplash
Enjoy a curry or fresh bagels on Brick Lane or Vietnamese food on Kingsland Road.
Join students at the Prince George pub in Dalston or catch live music at Village Underground.
For murals, cool nightlife, trendy shops and great food, this is your stop.
Photo credit: Samuel Regan-Asante on Unsplash

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/student-life/sport-and-fitness:
We've got something for everyone interested in playing sport and keeping fit at Middlesex — from Olympic medal winners to those of you wanting to learn new skills.
Our sports facilities are top class and our expert staff are here to train and support you.
Whether you're a serious competitive athlete, you want to make friends doing something more casual, or you're looking to improve your fitness and mental health, you’ll have loads of options here.
We have over 20 sports teams at Middlesex competing in student leagues and competitions.
Our sports teams have been very successful at regional and national competitions and our students have represented Great Britain in international competitions, such as the World Student Games and even the Olympics.
"What helped me make my university experience outstanding was joining the volleyball team.
We are not only teammates but also very good friends." Georgia , BSC Psychology with Human Resource Management
Our teams compete in all the most popular sports like football, basketball and tennis, as well as some more unusual sports like futsal, cheerleading and taekwondo.
Come along and join in our free taster sessions at the start of term.
You can play for one of our sports teams, or join in with our recreational sports on offer.
Use our excellent outdoor and indoor sports facilities on campus including:
Plus as a Middlesex student, you'll have access to local facilities for sports including rugby, golf, hockey, athletics, canoeing and swimming.
MDX Moves is our very own physical activity tracker.
Walk, run, cycle, or swim to stay active and earn points.
Your points can be redeemed for a variety of goodies from on campus retailers such as free coffee, food vouchers, gym memberships and merchandise, plus lots more.
All you need is a mobile phone to join in.
Our gym has an exciting multi-functional rig alongside our range of resistance machines and free weight areas including an Olympic weight lifting area.
The changing facilities in MDX House also have showers, lockers and vanity areas.
Join The Fitness Pod at Middlesex University.
At The Fitness Pod we’re not just a gym, we’re a community and we can't wait to welcome you to our friendly and professional facility located in the heart of the university campus on the lower ground floor of MDX House on campus.
If you live locally and want to join our friendly Fitness Pod family, you can do so for just  for just £19.50 per month, with no contract and no joining fee.
Your membership includes access to our Fitness Pod gym and our class programme.
Plus enjoy reduced rates on our outdoor Multi Activity Courts and 3g pitches.
Contact The Fitness Pod reception on 020 8411 6343 for more information or email thefitnesspod@mdx.ac.uk
Members will be required to pre-book their classes via the Fitness Pod app .
Your login details will be as follows:
Should you have any difficulty with downloading or using the app,  please call the Fitness Pod on 020 8411 6343.
For all enquiries, please email our Fitness Pod team or call the reception desk on 020 8411 6343.
We are open 7 days a week with late closing to ensure you have time to fit in a workout or a class.
Please reserve your place in advance by booking via The Fitness Pod app.
Student Off Peak Annual : MDX students only.
£30 for the entire academic year, no catch!
Memberships run September - May Mon - Fri 6.15am-4.00pm and 9.00am - 5.00pm weekends.
Full Fitness: Anytime use of gym, leisure classes, free pitch and court booking at off peak times (student only).
Pay annually or monthly by Direct Debit.
Mon - Fri 6.15am - 10.00pm and 9.00am - 5.00pm weekends.
Full Fitness Members can access over 60 University gyms across the UK under ‘BUCS Universal Gym’.
'Mavericks' Competitive Sport : Join a sports team.
Does not include access to the gym or classes.
Mavericks members receive £5 off a Fitness Pod Off Peak membership when purchasing their Mavericks membership at the same time.
Off Peak memberships just £25.00.
Pay & Play : One off registration fee and pay each time you use the gym or attend a leisure class.
Please note this can work out more expensive for regular users.
No Ties : This entitles the user to Full Fitness membership benefits.
Great if you are only here for a month or two or just want to try us out.
Try a new sport or activity at these sessions for complete beginners where you can learn the basics and meet other students at the same level.
Our activities change each term to bring you new and exciting opportunities.
Recent activities include badminton, tennis, weightlifting, trampolining, Jiu Jitsu, boxing and volleyball.
Join one of our free social sports sessions on campus.
You don’t even have to book – just turn up and get involved.
Have fun, get fit, save money and meet new people.
We'll help you use our facilities.
If you have a disability which you feel may prevent you from using a facility or service, please email the fitness pod or call us on 020 8411 6343 and we will our best to support you.
Fancy a little bit of an adventure?
Then why not come along to one of our 'Award Winning' adventure days or weekends on offer!
We have some fantastic opportunities to explore some of the UK’s most beautiful places and the great outdoors, all whilst taking part in some fun activities and making new found frinds.
For students struggling financially we can also offer fully funded and part funded trips.
For more information or to register, please visit The Fitness Pod reception in MDX House or email b.underwood@mdx.ac.uk .
When you start studying at Middlesex either as an undergraduate or postgraduate student if you are competing at a regional or national level in your sport, you could be eligible for support and funding through the Middlesex Sport Scholarship Scheme.
This is for talented sports performers, who are keen to continue their sporting endeavours and compete for the University.
There are three levels of scholarship available with financial support ranging from £200 to £1,000 in any academic year.
The decision on the level of financial support offered to successful applicants will be made by the Scholarships Committee, whose decision is final.
Applications must be supported by a written reference and evidence relevant to your sporting achievements.
For more information about sports scholarships please email us or call +44 (0)208 411 5415.
The deadline to apply for these scholarships is Friday 8 September 2024.
Find out how our scholarship programme has helped JJ Webb and Olympios Gougoulias win gold at Commonwealth Fencing Championships.
Find out more about Middlesex's Olympic and Paralympian athletes who studied at Middlesex and used our Sports and Fitness facilities.
JJ is a 27-year-old MDX Psychology student who has been competing for GB since the age of 14.
He is ranked as British number two and has his sights set on fencing for Great Britain at the Paris Olympics.
He picked up gold medals in both the individual and team senior events in August 2022, after the hardest season of his career.
Having just missed out of qualification for Tokyo 2020, lockdown gave JJ time to assess what he wanted.
He said: “I looked at how I can best manage the Olympic cycle in the lead up to Paris.
He applied to MDX as a mature student and was accepted on a scholarship programme.
“Our fencing national training centre is in Hendon and from my experience of working and training, I knew that having everything localised would be the least draining option for me,” JJ said.
He said: “Competing at Paris would be my ultimate goal.
That’s where I want to be.” Stay tuned!
Olympios is a first year economics student, was competing in the under 20 junior category for the last time.
Finishing at the top of the podium was especially satisfying after a niggling ankle injury hampered his early season.
A scholarship student, Olympios trains five times a week, using the campus facilities and the Leon Paul Fencing Centre in Hendon.
“Middlesex has really helped in terms of training and the scholarship has been brilliant.
Obviously there's the financial help but more importantly it has been the support, having people there that I could speak to or if I ever needed help with changing deadlines.
I've had access to physiotherapy all year too which has been great, it's a large network that you can rely on.”
"Middlesex University was the only university that offered me a scholarship for competing as an international judo player.
It has an amazing set up of support for athletes and sports students and has been fantastic at understanding both my academic and athletic commitments." - Sophie Sandy
We offer everything from sports massages to a full injury rehabilitation programme.
We run two sports injury clinics on campus.
Choose from an appointment with our qualified practitioner in The Fitness Pod Clinic, or book a sessions with our sports rehabilitation students' clinic which is supervised by qualified practitioners.
Call The Fitness Pod on 020 8411 6343 for booking and information.
As a member of the local community, you're welcome to use our excellent sports facilities .
Whether you want to join the gym, get treated for a sports injury, hire a pitch to play get with your friends, make sure you do it here on campus.
Call The Fitness pod on 020 8411 6343.
Middlesex University Sport and Recreation offers different National Governing Body coaching and officiating awards, as well as first aid qualifications.
Get sports or fitness-related qualifications in exchange for volunteering when you can use your skills for real-life projects.
It's great experience for future paid part-time work as a sports coach or match official.
We have an exciting international volunteering programme, providing you with opportunities abroad on local projects including event management and leadership training.
For example, you could get the chance to travel to China or Mauritius where you'll join staff to deliver sports coaching to local communities.
"I travelled with the sports department to Mauritius and the trip was one of the best experiences of my life.
The feeling of helping inspire dreams is incredible.
There really are no words." Lara Singleton, Theatre Arts BA

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/mdx-voices:
Welcome to MDX Voices.
Here, you’ll find stories about campus life, student activities, and areas of study – all told directly by our very own voices.
No one can tell the story of MDX better than the people of MDX.
That’s why we’ve created this space.
Here, our students, professors, and members of the wider MDX community talk about their experiences and achievements, in their own words.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international:
Join students from 122 nationalities to study at one of the top five universities for international outlook in the UK (THE Young Universities 2024).
Discover more about studying your first degree in north London, at one of our four leading academic faculties.
Continue your studies at Middlesex, with our diverse selection of taught postgraduate and postgraduate research courses.
Our Pre-sessional English courses are designed to help you gain confidence in English before studying a degree in the UK, and are equivalent to IELTS and similar tests.
Participate in a study exchange with our two international campuses and over 100 partner universities across the world.
Or choose an international work placement to gain real-life experience.
View the academic calendar to find out more about start dates.
Fees and funding for international students
We're here to help you

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/how-to-apply-as-a-international-student:
We’re so pleased that you’re considering joining our global community.
Once you’ve found the course that’s right for you, you can apply to study at Middlesex through our Applicant Portal, International Offices, and UCAS.
It’s a quick and easy process, and we’re here to help you each step of the way.
There are a number of ways you can apply to a course at Middlesex depending on the level of study.
If you are applying for a full-time undergraduate course at more than one university in the UK, then you need to apply through UCAS .
Get started by creating an account on our Applicant Portal where you can submit your application directly to us.
You can apply for more than one course, upload supporting documents and submit your online portfolio or show-reel.
We recommend applying as early as possible for your chosen course to ensure you are granted a place.
Remember, you can submit your application before you receive your final qualification.
We know that it’s useful to have someone local to give you advice when you’re making the decision to study abroad.
We have staff working in 15 offices across the world who will be able to support you in making your application.
Their services are completely free, and our teams can help:
Contact your international office
After you apply, you might be asked for additional supporting documents to help our Admissions team process your application.
Some of our courses have some further entry requirements such as:
If you are required to provide one of the above, our Admissions team will be in contact with you after you apply.
They will let you know exactly what information to provide and when.
As an international student who isn't based in the UK, you will be able to submit or conduct the above items in an online format.
Find out more about how to prepare
Once you've made your application we will send you important emails on your application and the next steps to becoming a Middlesex student.
To receive these emails it's important that the contact details you provide are as accurate as possible.
If you are likely to change postal or email address before starting your course then give your most permanent contact details.
Adding our email address to your inbox safe list is also a good idea.
Keep up to date with the progress of your application by logging into our online Applicant Portal or through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/entry-requirements-for-international-students:
Each course has a set of specific academic entry requirements that you will need to meet in order to be considered for entry into the course.
You can find more details of these requirements on the course page .
As an international student, we understand that you will not have UK qualifications.
The good news is that we accept qualifications from all over the world.
Take a look at the academic equivalents relevant to your country that apply to your intended course of study.
Depending on the course, you might also be asked for an interview, test, audition or a portfolio in addition to your application form.
Check if this is required for your course.
As well as academic qualifications, you also need to make sure that you meet our English language requirements .
This is especially important if you are not a national of a majority English-speaking country or you haven't completed a degree in English.
As an international student, you will require a student visa to study in the UK.
Hi everyone, my name is Adela and I recently graduated from the BA Advertising, Public Relations and Branding at Middlesex University.
Coming to Middlesex, I wasn't really sure what to expect academically because I was coming from another country.
What surprised and amazed me was how creative, practical and collaborative the lessons were.
The biggest challenge for me was definitely moving to London.
What helped me was getting in touch with my family as much as possible and also me and my classmates.
We started recording podcasts at one of the university's recording studios, which worked as an amazing therapy and helped us to get through the beginning of our studies.
Studying at Middlesex University helped me to discover my biggest passion for graphic design and branding, which led into establishing my little studio that's been slowly growing.
And also the support from the tutors helped me to get an offer for my master's degree in the graphic design field.
One of my highlights was meeting with the people from different countries, from different culture or professional backgrounds.
I am a person who loves to meet with people who loves to socialize.
So getting in touch and making friends with people from all around the world was just amazing.
Aside of graduating with the first class, proud that I took the opportunity, overcame my fear and got transferred for my last academic year to where I became a part of MDX community where I found a lot of amazing friends and had a chance to explore the beautiful island.
What I learned about myself during my three years at the university is that I'm capable of more than I would ever imagine and that taking the risk and opportunities and challenges is the best I can do for myself.
We’re here to help

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/entry-requirements-for-international-students/english-language-requirements-for-international-students:
If your education so far hasn’t been in English, or if you are not a national of a majority English-speaking country, you’ll need to provide evidence of your English language ability when making your application.
If you have not yet taken an English language test, you can take the Middlesex approved test for free.
Section B5 of the University Regulations outlines the requirements for English language that all applicants whose first language is not English are required to meet.
Many English language qualifications have an expiry date.
These tests will only be considered if they are valid at the point of entry.
Applicants are expected to demonstrate to the required level their English language capability.
There are a number of ways this can be achieved.
Applicants can:
Majority English‐speaking countries are defined as follows: Antigua and Barbuda, Australia, the Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Canada, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Ireland, Jamaica, Malta, New Zealand, St Kitts and Nevis, St Lucia, St Vincent and the Grenadines, Trinidad and Tobago, United Kingdom and USA.
Applicants who are hoping to meet the English Language requirement as described in point 2 above will be required to submit a NARIC certificate confirming the equivalent level of the degree alongside an official letter from the university confirming that the degree was taught in English or an original and official certificate from the university where the degree was awarded confirming that the degree was taught or researched in a majority English‐speaking country.
Approved Universities are:
Some programmes with professional registration requirements may exceed the University’s requirements and must also be met.
Exemptions granted by test providers for applicants with disabilities, who cannot demonstrate all four competencies of English language, will normally be taken into consideration and accepted at the point of admission.
Accepted validity – 2 years from exam date.
View exceptional courses.
70%
65% Business & Law taught PG Not accepted from the Punjab or Haryana boards
*A copy of successfully completed qualification from Polytechnics in Singapore.
A copy of the IELTS certificate they used to gain admission to the Polytechnics in Singapore programme.
This may now have expired, however as long it was valid at the time of start of the Polytechnics in Singapore programme it can be accepted.
The IELTS certificate must meet the Middlesex University English language requirements for undergraduate programmes, ie a score of 6 overall with a minimum of 5.5 in each component.
**A copy of the IELTS certificate they used to gain admission to the Thai University International programme that is taught entirely in English programme.
This may now have expired, however as long it was valid at the time of start of the Thai University International programme that is taught entirely in English programme it can be accepted.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/international-student-life:
Studying with us provides opportunities to meet people from all over the world and live a unique student life.
We believe that London is the best place to make the most of your university experience.
As of 2024, London has been voted the world's best student city for five years running (QS Top Student Cities) - and we have to agree.
Being in London means you're close to museums and art galleries, shopping and nightlife - and so much green open space.
It is a melting pot of different cultures, perspectives, and ideas with a diverse and vibrant student culture.
Get a sense of what it’s really like to study in this amazing city , by hearing from our international students.
There are over 50 clubs and societies that you can be a part of at Middlesex.
If there isn’t one that you like, you can also set up your own club or society with the help of the Students Union.
Some of our current international students are part of:
You’ll join a community of students from 122 nationalities at Middlesex.
A great way to earn some extra cash and gain work experience is by becoming one of our International Student Ambassadors.
You’ll work alongside other students from all around the world, assist at a variety of events and support a range of marketing tasks.
Applications typically open in October.
Apply directly through Unitemps
To get the most out of your university experience, we encourage you to speak to our teams on campus who are there to help you settle into your new life abroad.
We know that studying away from home can be daunting, but our teams can answer your questions and give you the information you need to feel at home.
UniHelp are a team of friendly advisors who can offer guidance, resolve enquiries and refer students to the appropriate specialist teams.
They are the first point of contact for students to access student support services and can make appointments for students to see a specialist or direct them to appropriate workshops or drop-in sessions where available.
Chat with our current international students and find out more about life on campus.
Find a student to chat to on Unibuddy
Our International Student Advice team is here to help you with any issues related to your immigration status during your time at Middlesex.
They can also support you and offer guidance if your circumstances change or any difficulties arise relating to your Student route (formerly tier 4) visa.
Our advisers provide a non-judgemental and strictly confidential service.
This means that we will not discuss any of the details of your visit, unless you give us permission to do so.
We offer both online and printed information as well as one-to-one support through appointments.
Book an appointment with Student Advice
Find out more about studying at Middlesex

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/student-visas:
Most international students need a Student Route visa to study in the UK.
It allows you to study on a course that is longer than six months and it's the most common student visa.
Make sure that you read the information below about how to apply for a Student Route visa carefully.
Your visa will be refused if your application is not completed correctly.
You will receive an email containing your Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) number, once we offer you a place to study and have confirmed that we will be able to sponsor you.
Your university will send this to you by email when you have met all of the academic and financial conditions of your offer.
You must state your CAS reference number on your Student route visa application.
Please be aware that a CAS is specific to your unconditional offer.
If you defer your studies to the next intake, or choose a different institution, you will need a new CAS.
Unless you have already been living in the UK for 12 months or longer and are making a new application in the UK, you must provide a bank statement(s), loan letter or sponsorship letter to show that you have sufficient funds to pay for your studies.
This includes outstanding tuition fees for your course, as well as living costs.
You need to show that you have £1,334 per month for 9 months (£12,006) unless your course is shorter than 9 months*.
*These figures are accurate as of February 2021.
These figures are subject to change and you must make sure than you meet the requirements in place at the time you submit your visa application.
Checklist for bank statements
More information on the financial requirements for your visa can be found in the UK Visas and Immigration Student route visa policy guidance .
Your CAS will list the qualifications which you must submit with your visa application.
You must supply the original copies.
Photocopies will not be accepted.
The Home Office requires all students to have a minimum standard of English before they can study in the UK.
The standard of English required depends on the level of the course you have applied for.
Your CAS will state how your English has been assessed.
This might be by reference to a qualification you have achieved or a IELTS certificate.
You must ensure that you supply copies of any qualifications referenced on the CAS letter when you apply for your visa.
If you are from a country which is recognised as majority English speaking, or you have completed a degree course which was taught and assessed in English in one of these countries and this is recorded on your CAS, you will not need to provide evidence of any additional English Language qualifications.
Majority English-speaking countries are defined as: Antigua and Barbuda, Australia, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Canada, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, New Zealand, St Kitts and Nevis, St Lucia, St Vincent and the Grenadines, Trinidad and Tobago, and the USA.
If you are coming to the UK for more than six months and apply for your visa from a country which has a high risk of tuberculosis , you must be tested and obtain a certificate to confirm that you do not have this illness.
You must obtain this certificate from a recognised screening clinic before you make your visa application.
There is a small charge, which is payable locally.
Get more information about tuberculosis tests and a list of recognised screening clinics from the UK Visas and Immigration website.
You will need a valid passport in order to apply for a student route visa.
Get ready to start your journey

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/course-fees-and-costs-for-international-students:
We understand that knowing how you’ll fund your studies as an international student is something you’ll want to tick off your list as soon as possible.
We’ve got plenty of support on budgeting to help you get the most out of your money and your university experience.
The following information covers course fees for September 2024/January 2025.
The cost is per year of full-time study.
For detailed information or part-time fees, please check your individual course page.
Most undergraduate degrees are priced at £16,600 per year for international students.
There are some variations.
International fees for nursing and midwifery undergraduate courses are £16,000.
Foundation programmes in arts and creative industries; games design; accounting and finance, economics, management; and law and politics, sociology and criminology are priced at £14,700 per year.
Fees for Information Systems (Top Up) (Distance Education) are £6,600.
For 2024/25, international student fees for postgraduate research degrees (including MPhil/PhD) are £15,700 per year.
If you don’t meet the English language requirements, you may be advised to complete one of our pre-sessional English courses.
The length of study you will need will depend on your current level of English.
In addition to your course fees, you should also consider other costs including visa applications and accommodation costs, if relevant.
Middlesex has three halls of accommodation for you to choose from.
It’s a great way to make new friends and settle in.
If you need to book accommodation you will need to consider the cost of this too.
At Middlesex, we have a number of halls of residence for you to choose from.
All of our rooms are single occupancy - you won't share a bedroom with anyone else but you might share kitchen and bathroom facilities depending on your room choice.
Before you move into your accommodation you will need to pay £300 advanced rent payment.
This payment can only be made once you have an offer to study with us.
There is no deadline to apply for accommodation although it’s good to apply as soon as you can as places are limited.
If you choose to live in private accommodation, the cost of rent will vary depending on the type of accommodation you are looking for and its location.
In Barnet, the area of London in which we are based, the average price for a room in shared private accommodation is around £600/month.
Nearby but more central Camden is more expensive at around £900.
A room in Brent to the west is £700.
Costs vary greatly, however, and the private rental market can be competitive.
These prices may not include bills for utilities and broadband.
You can either look for a single room or if you can try to get a shared-flat or house with friends or family.
Many private organisations also run student halls of residence.
These tend to priced a little higher than renting a room at Middlesex-run halls.
When you apply for your visa, whether that's through your local visa application centre or online, you will need to pay an application fee.
The cost of a Student Visa application is:
Application from outside the UK
£490
Application from within the UK
You need to show that you have course fees for one academic year, and enough money to support yourself.
This is currently calculated as £1,483 per month for 9 months (£13,347) unless your course is shorter than 9 months.
For each dependent, you must add £845 per month.
There will also be additional application fees.
You will not need to show you have the course fee if you have already been in the UK for over 12 months.
Any money must have been in your account for 28 consecutive days.
The bank statement cannot be more than one month old when you apply for your visa.
If you have a student loan or financial sponsorship, you’ll need to provide evidence of this from your loan or sponsorship provider.
You will need to pay a healthcare surcharge of £776/year, reduced to £388 if you are staying for less than six months.
This fee also applies to dependents.
These figures are accurate as of April 2024, and are subject to change.
You must make sure that you meet the requirements in place at the time you submit your visa application.
Please check the UK Government website for official information.
"Employability support from MDX works which has helped me secure several jobs and a placement opportunity which was a requirement of my course"
Kelechi, Nigeria
MSc Sport Performance Analysis
Hi, everyone.
Thanks for joining us today on today's webinar of scholarships, fees and finance.
I'm Gabrielle and I'm the Americas and Caribbean regional officer at Middlesex University.
I was also a student at Middlesex not too long ago so I can relate to many of your questions about scholarships, fees, finance, how to fund your studies, and all of that.
I'm also joined by two current students at Middlesex and they are Divya Samani from India and Yu Hui from Malaysia.
Hi, thank you for joining us.
They'll also share some tips and tricks about budgeting later.
The webinar will last around 60 minutes and we have a quick presentation followed by a Q&A session at the end.
If you'd like to ask questions please type them in the chat room box, which should be on the right hand side of your screen, and the webinar is being recorded so we'll share the recording and presentation slides with you on a follow up email in the next day or two.
All right, so let's get started.
So today we'll be talking about these three things scholarships, how to pay the deposit and tuition fees.
We're also going to talk about budgeting your money whilst a student at Middlesex University.
And this information is going to be useful, whether you're a first year student, undergraduate students, or a mature master students, or even PhD students.
So let's get right into it and talk about scholarships.
So when it comes to scholarships, there are a few things to keep in mind.
We do give scholarships and oftentimes it will be as a reduction to your tuition fees.
Most of them are merit based, but some are on personal circumstances.
You can apply for more than one, but you can only be awarded one.
So you'll keep the one normally with the highest value on your record.
This is in case you earn two or three scholarships.
you'll keep the one with the highest value.
And you can take a screenshot of these links so you can know where to access these scholarships if you're anxious and don't want to wait a day or two after we send out the recording.
But also every regional office normally has a budget for regional awards.
Please remember that these are very competitive and you should aim to apply as soon as possible after receiving an offer from the program.
So basically that's the dynamic.
You don't apply to the scholarships first and then apply to the program.
You first apply to the program right to the university via UCAS or the regional office or directly if you're a master's student.
And after you get an offer from the university, that's when you can then apply for scholarships.
So for those of you who are international students like our two beautiful student ambassadors and like I was myself when I was a student.
You have the option to look into achieving scholarships.
These are for master's degrees only.
It's one of the best scholarships and it includes everything from visa fees, airfare, a monthly stipend for living expenses, accommodation, and of course, the tuition fee.
Now you must know that this process begins a year before the start of your program.
So this means that if you apply for achieving scholarship in 2021, you'll be coming to Middlesex in 2023.
Applications usually open in August and close early in November.
So please follow their social media and look into their website regularly for the most updated information.
Since it's earlier in the year, this is a great time to start researching achieving applications, to start, preparing your profile, becoming a good candidate for those scholarships.
And as soon as they open up in August, you'll have the opportunity to apply.
All right, so if you're from a country in the Commonwealth and can demonstrate that you're from a disadvantaged background, then you can also access the scholarship here, the Commonwealth Scholarship.
It is, again, for postgraduate studies only, and their criteria is only for degrees in certain development subject areas, such as science, technology.
Technology for development, for example, global peace, security, governance, those types of degrees.
And if you're from the EU or EEA, then this is as a result of Brexit.
Unfortunately, you will now be charged international tuition fees and can't access British student loans, but fortunately we at Metal Gear And you'll be charged international tuition fees, can't access British student loans, but fortunately we at Metal Gear sex offer these scholarships which allow you to pay tuition fee that is very close to home fees and very far from the regular international tuition fee.
So as shown on screen, undergraduate students would pay 9 ,500 postgraduate students just 250 more than UK fees.
Please note that this is an automatic scholarship that you won't need to apply for and it's only for students who have an EU or EEA passport and are also permanent residents in the EU and EEA.
If you have not been living in the EU then this does not apply to you.
Now if you meet this criteria and are in the UK on a settled or pre -settled status then you can disregard the scholarship as you will obtain the UK fees.
All right so let's talk now about university fees and other associated costs.
So things that you must consider when budgeting obviously first and foremost tuition fees.
Then you can also think of any field residential trip if not already included in your program.
At Middlesex many residential trips are included in your tuition fees, so you don't have to set out as much for that you can find more information on the program's profile, or, you know, on the first day, when you are at lectures, normally that's when your program leader will explain everything.
Um, you also need to budget for accommodation.
So our halls of residence start at somewhere between normally I started something like 158 or 160 pounds per week and private rented accommodation is available at mdx .ac .uk slash accommodation, so it can give you a good idea you can go online there and just check out the prices for 2022.
Also consider living expenses so things like food travel entertainment, laundry cards which a lot of students forget you will need to pay for your laundry for the washer and the dryer mobile bill.
Um, telecommunications right if you like to go to the gym, then you have to pay for gym membership and all those little things that are included in living expenses.
So be mindful of that as well and also be mindful that if you're an international students, the living expenses in London might be very different from the living expenses at your home country, they may be higher or they may be lower.
So, what you need to do at this point is just prepare for that and make sure that you have the funds or that you can collect the funds by the time you start university.
If you're applying for a pre sexual English course then you should also budget for that extra fee of tuition and living expenses associated to that.
If you need a student rent visa, then you're excited.
to have the first year's tuition fee plus £12,006 in a bank account that is yours or your parents.
And you can check more on this at .
So keep that in mind if you're an international student who needs a visa.
And also I wanna make a note here that a number of countries are exempt from having to show these funds upon visa application, but we always advise students to have evidence of these funds.
You don't have proof of these funds, but a bank account showing these amounts, just in case they're requested proof of funds in the case that you've applied for a loan, then you don't need such bank statements.
The federal loan, for example, will do.
All right, so some things that we include as part of your tuition fees are well -being and academic support.
employability advice, e -books and e -journals and I think we're if not the only probably one of the first universities who provided students e -books, free e -books for each and every one of their modules.
Also the university has enough books in the library for students to loan for up to 20 weeks at a time.
Again I was a student and it feels so good to not have to worry about budgeting four books specifically although we do encourage if students are able to purchase their books that's great but if that's not something that you can budget for then at least you know that you won't run into troubles with that.
The university has enough books that you can loan it to 20 weeks at a time and also we give free e-books for each and every one of your classes or lectures.
Another thing that we include which includes that value for money is online training, laptop loans, printing, yes there is free printing on campus and especially if you're a postgraduate or student who's doing their dissertation that is a lot a lot of pages that you'll need to print at some point.
If you stay at a hall of residence then all bills are included.
I'm talking electricity, Wi-Fi, heating, water, even a weekly cleaner for the shared spaces like the kitchen, hallways, living room.
All of those are included in your fees so I think it's honestly a great value for money.
All right so let's talk about paying your deposit.
So paying your deposit is the final part or the final step to secure your place at Middlesex University and after which you can sit back you can write relax, and then wait for your CAS if you need a visa.
So CAS statements, CAS stands for confirmation of acceptance of studies.
CAS statements will not be sent out to students who have not paid a deposit or provided evidence of having been granted a loan.
So that's why it's important to pay your deposit as soon as you know that you want to come to the equal sex, as soon as you receive an unconditional offer status as soon as you're able to.
Your deposit will be stated on your offer letter, and it can go from 1 ,000 pounds up to 50% of your first or only year's tuition fee.
It really varies.
So please look back to your offer letter, see how much deposit you need to pay.
If you wish to defer your place, then you'll be asked to complete the application process and pay the deposit before your application is deferred to the next year.
So be mindful of that as well.
Deposits are non -refundable, except if you are denied a student visa.
So if you pay a deposit, it is expected that you will be coming to Middlesex University, right?
Just keep those things in mind regarding the deposit.
Now, how do I pay my tuition fees?
Half of your yearly tuition fee should be paid upon enrollment, and the deadline is normally at the end of the month of enrollment.
So at the end of September, if you're a September starter or at the end of January, if you're a January starter, of course.
So it really depends on your start date.
But normally the rule of thumb is at the end of that month is when you have to pay at least 50 percent of your full year's tuition fees.
You can pay tuition fees by a lot of ways except for cash.
So you can pay tuition fees by bank transfer.
You can pay it over the phone with a credit or debit card or our preferred way, which is online payments with most major credit or debit card.
The reason why we prefer that is because you, as a student, you're able to get a receipt right away.
Just email to you seconds after payments.
And we will cover the bank account information just a bit, but do not stress about not having bank accounts just yet, because this is part of what happens during the Welcome Week.
And you'll receive more information about opening a bank account in the UK closer to enrolments.
I just had a student yesterday very worried about not having a bank account in the UK.
And of course, they don't have it yet because they're not living in the UK.
So those are things that come after you enrol, in fact.
So don't worry about having a bank account just yet in the UK, but do have those tuition fees and accommodation fees beforehand.
All right, so let's talk a little bit about the student budgeting.
This information.
information will be very useful to you if you want to take notes or if you want to wait for the recording, then do that please.
So living costs, these are some of the estimated costs of living, which again may vary a lot from, or may differ a lot from your country of residence currently.
So accommodation, bills and insurance, just expect it can go anywhere from £550 to £800 pounds per month.
Food and household items are normally around £80 per month, so normally like £20 per week.
Then think about leisure, sports, entertainment, right?
These are part of the things you want to include in your budget, and it looks anywhere from around 95 pounds each month.
Local transportation.
If you live by the university and you're just walking to and from the university, the local transportation can be very low.
Or it can go normally from £50-100 each month.
Also be mindful that you're able to get a student oyster cart for transportation, which gives you about, I think, 30% discount on weekly, monthly, seasonal or yearly travel passes.
And then also think of one off costs that normally happen once a year or every so often in the year, not very, not month to month.
And these are things like flights to and from your home country, treats for yourself like, I don't know, a very special clothing item you want to treat yourself with on your birthday.
Things also like traveling around Europe.
It's something that our students doing that I remember I did a lot and I enjoyed a lot, because although it is very easy to come into a lot of parts in Europe and even the world.
These are things that you need to budget for right budget for the trips the entrance tickets to the London I for example it's something that you're not going to do every month, but that you will do one time or maybe twice in a year.
All right, so those are things that you have to budget for also be mindful in here I want to write a huge asterisk.
These living costs will vary, you could be living more extravagantly than this, or more affordably than this, and it all depends on your lifestyle.
Okay, really all depends on your lifestyle.
That's the rule of thumb in the same way that in your city, you could be living towards the most extravagant and or the most affordable and that's the same way which you can expect life to be in the UK while you're a student.
All right, so just keep those things in mind.
And here we have some costs of rent for a few years ago, so you have an idea of what to expect.
And here we have, for example, our five halls of residence, that's Usher Hall, Platte Hall, Ivy Hall, and Olympic Way.
More accurate, too, not tuition fees, more accurate fees can be found on our website.
And it's important to know that we do 40 week contracts and 50 week contracts in Ivy Hall, and also at Usher Hall, but you would need to discuss that with the accommodations team.
As I mentioned before, bills are included, so consider gas, electricity, internet, all of that to be included.
Alright, now opening of bank accounts in the UK.
Let's talk a little bit about that.
So opening the bank accounts in the UK can take a few weeks, so please allow for enough time and adjust your expectations.
You can also try and apply online to speed the process.
I would say it is wise to bring a traveller's check or small amounts of cash with you in case there are delays, but many places accept cards as a form of payments.
You can see the main bank on screen but an alternative bank and a very popular bank is an online bank called the Monzo, so go check that out when you can.
It's very accessible, very easy to join.
And it's something that our international students use a lot and enjoy.
Alright, so normally banks will require an ID or passport with a visa.
If you're an international student, you would also need proof of address in the UK so that's normally why you need to first arrive in the UK prior to opening a bank account.
And you will need proof of studies, like your MDX offer letter or your student ID.
Once you become a student, you have access to the student portal, you're able to download a bank letter, it's what we call it, which is normally what students provide in order to address all these documents that they need to provide.
Alright, and that is pretty much all from my side, I will now leave you with one of our student ambassadors.
Her name is Divya.
Divya, what can you tell us today?
Thank you so much.
So before starting, I just give a brief introduction about myself.
So I'm Divya Samani, I'm from Mumbai, and I was a September intake last year, and I'm doing my master's in digital marketing.
I have worked in India for six years, and I'm currently staying at one of the students accommodation.
Next slide please.
So, I could see many questions in our chat box about should we wait, or you know how to accept so firstly I would suggest do not wait if you've got a scholarship, please go ahead and pay a deposit you wouldn't want to miss this.
Another thing is for scholarship university would contact you.
If you receive a scholarship, it is you would mostly get via a mail.
So do not worry patiently just wait, and it is not completely an academics.
For me it was my work experience as well for you it could be non academic as well.
And if you still, it has been long and if you still haven't had any response, you could contact your regional office they would surely help you in any way they can.
Yes, so this is a chart that I've made of what expenses you could probably have and what is the solution for that.
So, as a student when I came here.
I'm still a student but yes traveling was very expensive and for that one of the biggest solution I saw was the Oystercard.
As rightly mentioned by Gabrielle in the starting that we do get a 30% off on a student Oystercard so make sure you get that once you land in London.
For accommodation, Middlesex University provides university hall as well we have five halls you could choose from depending on the location and what lifestyle you're looking out for but at the same time.
We also provide private accommodation like a list of places where you could go and you could talk to and you could see what suits your need.
Another major expense is the food.
So, for our university it does provide on campus food like there is a food court where you would have big brands like Gregg's or Subway where you could you know the food is at an affordable rate.
You could also cook food, I would highly recommend that to cook food on your own because outside food is expensive.
And there are also tie ups with a Middlesex University which is then the latest slide like cost cutter where you would find things at much cheaper rate once you show your student ID card.
So there will be other expenses, miscellaneous expenses which you would have to take care.
So I would recommend if you have time try to find a part time job so that you could balance your expenses as well.
And printing is very expensive here if I compare it with my home country but thankfully university, we have free printing.
So that's a great deal.
Yes, as I mentioned, student Oystercard is a must you would get 30% off.
There are other tie ups for example even at co -op there are student discounts.
So co -op is basically a grocery store where you would find everything right from your food to frozen food to fresh vegetables.
So they do give a student discount.
And you would also get discounts I'm sure you would have heard about Tesco, Aldi and Little.
these places to offer your student discount.
So make sure when you come over, when you land in London and you go for shopping, make sure you carry your student ID card and show it to them so that they can give you a student discount.
How to manage your finances.
Grocery, as I said, food is one thing which is important and which would be expensive.
So these are the places which I found which are at an affordable rate, that is Tesco, Co-op.
Co-op is less than five minutes from my university.
Aldi, Lidl and Poundland.
These are top five places where you will be able to manage your entire food expense under probably 300 pounds for the whole month.
So now I would give it to my colleague, you please take forward.
Thanks, Divya.
So hi, everyone.
This is Yuhui.
I'm from Malaysia, and I'm a financial student and with a sex university.
So I'm currently pursuing my BA in Business Management in Supply Chain and Logistics.
So next slide, please.
So I'm going to share some of my personal experience when paying the deposit as well as the tuition fee.
So I myself would prefer to pay over the bank transfer via the Western Union.
So I believe that around a few might have heard of this Western Union.
So international student and you or UK student, they can now actually pay your own tuition fee using this platform that provided by Middlesex powered by this Western Union.
So this allows you or your parents to pay your fees in the currency of your own choice, then giving you a simple, quick and secure way to initiate a payment.
So you should be aware that this is the only approved, legit method for students to carry out a bank transfer.
Next slide, please.
So I do have some money saving tips as a student in London.
So first of all, don't forget to budget.
It is important to budget because budgeting can be the key when it comes to tipping tap on your own money.
So you know exactly what's coming in and going out.
So I do have a tip, so you can actually download all those budget banner app and then to help you to plan.
Also find out what can get you free.
So when you are a student in the UK, there are some things that you don't have to pay for, for example, like, you know, you can actually get the medical prescription from the GP for free.
Save on your travel.
I believe that Divya has mentioned that earlier.
So get yourself a 16 to 25 rear card and then link that with the oil.
still cut and then you will be able to get a 33% of you know of travel from the tube.
Also student discount so you can actually register with the uni day website or as well as the student bin website for more discount on those leisure and entertainment also you will be able to get discount in hundreds of high street shops, restaurant, theater, cinema or other attraction for example like London Eye and others with a valid student ID.
So do you have any question?
Wonderful thank you so much ladies.
All right so I we do have several questions that I've collected on the chat and I will try and address as soon as possible or as quickly as possible.
All right so one of the questions is and if you ladies want to answer them as well, just let me know.
Are there any scholarships or discounts available for international students and undergraduates?
Yes, there are scholarships and discounts available.
Apart from the ones that we've discussed, I would say contact your regional office.
Next question is, are there scholarships available for postgraduate international students?
The answer is yes.
So normally regional awards go from anywhere from £1,000 to £5,000 for international students, whether you're an undergrad or postgrad student.
And you should contact your regional office to know how to apply.
If you're a student, for example, from the Americas, that's North and South America and the Caribbean, then you can apply online on a form that we have on our website.
If you're a student from other parts of the world, there also should be a form out there.
So please contact your regional office for that.
Next question, from where can I access the information regarding scholarships for postgraduate international students?
Well, the best and most straightforward answer is from a webinar like this, but you can also, and this is what I advise every student, reach out to your regional office because they would be the best people to know, the scholarships that are available in your country, in your region, the scholarships that you can access.
So make sure to contact your regional office as well.
And then also on our website, you can go to nds .ac .uk and search for scholarships.
And we have a webpage that's specifically about scholarships, all types of scholarships.
Next question is, what is the deadline to pay the deposit for international, or sorry, for the September intake?
So the deadline to pay the deposit for the September intake will vary.
And this is a common question that I found out there on the questions that we had here on the chat.
Your deadline is normally three weeks or 21 days after you get an unconditional offer.
And basically what we do is we hold a spot for you because we just made an unconditional offer, we hold a spot for you and we hold it for three weeks, right?
And give you time to pay that deposit.
If you don't pay the deposit in three weeks, that doesn't mean that your offer will be rejected or that it will be taken away.
It just means that we will prioritize other students, we will hold that for other students.
So you really wanna pay within this three week timeframe.
But if you need an extension, just contact your regional office and say, hey, I'm gonna need another week or two to sort out my finances or to make up my mind before I make this deposit payment.
So yes, you should pay a deposit after receiving an unconditional offer letter.
Now if you're a UCAS student, you may not receive an unconditional offer letter right before because a condition of your offer is to pay the deposit.
So normally what will happen is you have a conditional offer, you firm your conditional offer, and you are approved of all of the academic conditions of your offer.
You meet all of the academic conditions of your offer and if the only condition of your offer left is paying the deposit, then admissions will update your status to unconditional accept, and that's how you can then make the deposit online.
Again, if you have any more questions or need specific one to one advice, reach out to your regional office, get them on the phone, allow them to explain everything for you.
Next question, when will I know my scholarship around?
Well you first have to apply for that scholarship, if applicable, because some scholarships are automatic like the ones that I mentioned for the EU or EEA.
But if you're, if you've applied for a scholarship, you should hear back in a specific timeframe.
Normally it's within three weeks but it can take a little bit longer at some times.
You will either be sent an email with this scholarship amount information like you've earned a £3,000 pound award or £5,000 award.
Or you will get an updated offer letter by email.
So if you've applied and if you've applied to the scholarships, and you get a random offer letter again, then that's why it's been updated with your scholarship.
Next question.
My refundable, is my deposit refundable if I refuse for visa?
Yes.
Deposits are non-refundable.
with the exception of if your visa is refused.
So only for that reason, if your visa is refused, then and only then are you able to get a refund of your deposit.
What you could do alternative is again, speak to your regional office or to our visa advisor, see if you could be eligible to study in the next term or next year, and then just leave your deposit there because it will be applicable for the next cycle or the next entry term.
If that ever happens, just reach out to your regional office and say, hey, what are my options?
How can I, what should I do?
Should I get a refund?
Should I just defer the application for next year?
What are my chances to getting a visa next year?
So that's an option.
Another question, if I've received a conditional offer and I have accepted it, do I have to pay the deposit amount after we received an unconditional offer letter?
Yes, we don't take money, we don't take a deposit unless you've met all of the academic conditions of your offer.
So let's say that you still have a few conditions, for example, to provide English language and you have a conditional offer, you've earned it, but you still have to provide that English language test, then we don't take any money from you until you have showed us the certificate, the English certificate or the condition of your offer, and it's been approved.
Only then are we able to move on to the deposits.
All right, another question that we have here.
I have started my last year bachelor's degree in January 2022.
When can I apply for a master's and apply for available scholarships?
This is a good question.
It seems to me that you've just started looking at Middlesex University as an option and you want to apply.
Well, it will depend on which month of the year you will finish your bachelor's degree in order to apply for master's.
So for example, we have two entry dates in the year and that's September for all of our programs and then January for only a handful of our programs.
So let's say that your last year of a bachelor's degree in January 2022.
So that means that you're already free from your bachelor's.
You graduated in everything.
You can apply for September 2022 starts and you should apply as soon as possible.
Now, you don't need to have finished your bachelor's to apply.
You can apply without having completed your bachelor's degree, but just make sure that by the time the master's degree starts, you will have finished completely have a diploma, have your full transfers.
So that's what's important.
So yes, you can apply for a master's degree tonight.
I advise students to apply, especially if you need a visa, to apply a year to at least six months before, because that will allow us enough time to process your application for you to process a visa and join us in time for the start in September, 2022.
So yeah, I hope I answered your question.
Next question, oh, and the other part of your question is when can I apply for a scholarship?
Remember, you have to first apply for the program, and once you get an offer from the program, then you apply for the scholarships.
So whenever you get an offer, whether it's conditional or unconditional, then that's when you can apply for the scholarships, okay?
For our scholarships, if you're applying for a Commonwealth scholarship or a achieving scholarship, then you want to follow those deadlines.
Are there funding programs available for international postgraduate students?
So there aren't federal loans or there aren't UK loans that you can apply for.
But you can definitely apply for scholarships and bursaries and regional awards at Middlesex.
When and how should I apply for Visa?
We have a whole webinar on PASES for students that are in that stage.
But just to give you a quick breakdown, first you have to apply for the university.
Then if you are granted an offer, an unconditional offer, and you have paid your deposit, then you apply for your Visa with a unique code that we sent you.
We, the university as your sponsor, have to send you this unique code, and that's only when you're able to apply for a Visa.
So if you're worried about visas now without even applying, don't.
There's no reason to worry about visas now.
First worry about applying to the university, then meeting the conditions of your offer, if any.
Pay your deposit, getting that unconditional offer, because only then are you able to start with a Visa application.
We walk students by the hand if necessary.
We have teams that are able to give you immigration advice, immigration information that can help you have webinars at that time.
But to give you an idea for September starters, it's normally in the summer when they start applying for the visas, and so that's when the university gives those resources to apply for visas and help with that.
Do you need to, this is a follow up question, do you need to be accepted to a university?
apply for a visa, the answer is yes.
You don't apply for the visa first for a UK visa and then apply for university, that's not the way.
The correct way is you apply for the university first for your program, then you're given an offer, then you meet those qualifications, you pay a deposit, and that's basically when you're sure that you're going to this specific university and you have a place in this program only then are you able to apply for the visa, okay?
So that's a common question that students get and thank you so much for the students ask and thank you so much for asking.
So moving really quickly here, when should we expect a CAS after deposit payment?
That's another good question.
So universities are not able to send out CAS statements more than six months from the start of your programs.
If assuming that you've already have an unconditional offer, assuming that you already paid your deposit, You're just sitting, you know, waiting for that CAS.
As a university, we're not able to send it any sooner than six months.
So the sooner you will receive it is in March, but the university itself can say, you know what?
We're maybe not ready to send it in March, so we're gonna send it in May, June, and July.
Okay, so the university has that capacity as long as it's no sooner than six months from the start of the program.
Is there any possibility for getting student loans for international students?
Yes, there is a possibility, but not in the UK.
You're not gonna get UK student loans as an international student, but you may get student loans from your own country, from your home country.
So for example, Canadian students are able to get provincial loans in their country, which they can apply, and we are able to administer animals at university.
The same for USA students.
They're able to get US federal loans or FAFSA loans, and we're able to administer those in the UK.
So check within your home country what types of loans you can get, whether they're government loans, whether they are bank loans, and yes, you can apply them too.
We are able to administer those loans, but as an international student, you will not be able to apply to UK loans, okay?
Can postgraduate fees be paid in installment?
Yes, international students pay a deposit and two installments.
So you pay your deposit as soon as you're getting as soon as you receive and accept your unconditional offer.
And then you pay in two installments over the year.
If you're a postgraduate student and a September starter, that would be the rule of thumb is at the end of September, that's the deadline of your first installment.
You have to be 50% of your tuition fees by the end of September, and the remaining fees minus any scholarships or reaching awards by the end of January.
Specific dates vary every year, of course, and they're not on the top of my head, but it's normally that one.
I deposit when you get an unconditional offer, 50% of your tuition fees in September and the remaining fees minus adding scholarships in January.
All right, I just see some questions here, which I'm afraid I'm not gonna be able to respond at this moment because we're running out of time.
Let me see if there's any last minute question that I can...
So I have a question here about location.
Which area is best to live in financially and safe near the university?
This is a great thing and this is why I love the fact that Middlesex University is located in a neighborhood, a suburban neighborhood called Hendon.
And that is because our neighborhood is very affordable in comparison to the Central London.
So students are able to live in London and enjoy everything that London has to offer, but also we're located in an area where amenities like housing, right, rent, is a lot more affordable.
However, we're only doorsteps from Central London.
We're like 20 minutes into Central London.
So this is another reason why if you want, you're thinking of, yes, I want to go to London.
I want to study, but I also am financially aware that I have a budget to stick to.
Middlesex is a great option.
All right, so unfortunately we cannot go through all of these wonderful questions that you have because we are running out of time.
But I want to thank you so much.
I will see if our marketing team is able to give me a transcript of all of these questions and we can email you or we can send those questions to the specific regional office so that they can email you the answers.
So thank you so much for your questions.
Thank you for sticking with us during this time.
And I hope this has been useful for you.
All right, have a great day.
Bye.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country:
If you're from outside the United Kingdom, our country pages will help you find answers to your questions about studying at Middlesex.
Our country pages have information about entry requirements, scholarships and funding, student testimonials, and how to contact your nearest international office.
More information for international students

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research:
Through our collaborative, creative and inclusive approach, we are shaping the changing global research landscape.
Our interdisciplinary groups of researchers address problems that demand novel approaches.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/why-choose-middlesex-for-research:
Our purpose is to create knowledge and put it into action.
We develop fairer, healthier, and more prosperous and sustainable societies.
At Middlesex we have established an open and inclusive environment that encourages interdisciplinary research to flourish.
We create and explore new ideas and approaches to tackling problems faced by societies.
Research is about positive transformations, shifting the way we live and navigate challenges – regionally, nationally and globally.
Research allows us to deliver innovative education and meaningful impact
We are locally rooted and globally connected through our campuses across the world.
We value the richness and diversity of research and all forms of knowledge.
Our staff, strategy, support and training for research are key to our identity as a university.
We also promote equity and diversity of research careers.
We are committed to responsible research.
This means research rigour, integrity and ethics.
Impact is part of our mission and values, underlining our broader contribution to society.
Our commitment to change is outlined in our strategy and our cross cutting themes.
We co-create our research objectives and approaches with the research community and our wider partners.
We promote openness, inclusivity, collaboration and respect for forms of knowledge.
Our network of partners and stakeholders allow us to move knowledge from its point of creation to its point of use and value.
We see the research community as researchers, participants, partners, funders, academic and professional support colleagues, students, technicians, external partners and collaborators.
We are change makers and transformation catalysts – connecting ideas and solutions to application and exploration.
Impact that transforms society can only be understood from the perspective of those who stand to benefit from the research the most.
Creating impact changes discourse, thinking, policy or practice.
We share our research through a range of tools including academic publications, policy workshops and briefs, films, art, technological innovations, business structures, peacebuilding toolkits in multiple languages, and many others.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/ref:
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) is the UK’s system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions.
Middlesex University increased the impact of our research, quality of research outputs and range of disciplines submitted in REF 2021.
REF 2021 shows that we have strong foundations on which to build as we make high quality, impactful research a shared priority for our community.
Since REF 2014 our research has grown in overall quality of outputs and impact and in the range of subjects covered.
We achieved our results while balancing resources across all three areas of academic excellence – research and knowledge exchange, education and engagement.
100% of the work submitted for five disciplines had outstanding (4-star) or very considerable (3-star) impact, aligned to three strategic themes in our Strategy for 2031.
Equity and Improvements in Health and Wellbeing – Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience; Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism
Sustainability of Communities and the Environment – Geography and Environmental Studies; Business and Management Studies
Inclusive Socio-economic Development and Enriching Lives through Culture – Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory
As a community, our collaborative, creative and inclusive approach is helping to shape the future of research.
We promote excellence in research and knowledge exchange by:
This submission presented work carried out by researchers in the Departments of Natural Sciences; Design Engineering and Mathematics; and Adult, Child and Midwifery at Middlesex University.
A total of 32 researchers were involved, working in four research groups: Biophysics and Bioengineering; Biomarkers and Molecular Biology; Public Health Policy; and Nursing Research.
This research project has pioneered the use of Electrical Impedance Tomography (EIT), which can be used to image organ function in real time (100 images/second).
Compared with existing technology it is highly portable, inexpensive and lends itself readily to remote imaging to save lives.
The project's key impacts are:
The impact described above evolved from a series of specific developments employing EIT, including:
The research continued to flourish and diversify throughout the coronavirus pandemic when we repurposed the hardware and techniques for monitoring COVID-19 pneumonia in adult ITUs.
The Middlesex research team behind the project consists of Professor Richard Bayford , Dr Andrew Tizzard, and Dr Andy Bardill .
Along the way, the team has collaborated with several universities, hospitals and industry partners – locally, nationally and globally – including the Great Ormond Street Hospital and UCL (UK); Oulu University Hospital and University of Oulu (Finland), Nicosia General Hospital (Cyprus), Sentec (previously called Swisstom) and Emergex (UK); and Dartmouth College and Florida State University (USA).
Read Electrical Impedance Tomography submission (PDF)
This research project addressed global non-communicable disease (NCD) challenges, impacting on both public policy, and health and wellbeing.
The World Health Organization's (WHO) NCD Global Monitoring Framework (WHO-GMF) enables global tracking of progress in preventing and controlling major NCDs and their key risk factors.
Our Public Health and Biomarker Research Groups have a proven track record in the analysis of cardio-metabolic risk factors and the identification of novel biomarkers for a range of pathologies linked with cardiovascular diseases and cancer.
Specifically, the impact described above evolved from Middlesex research across global health and clinical innovation commencing in 2006 including:
Epidemiological research on the global burden of metabolic risk factors which led to the creation of the largest dataset of metabolic risk factors using over 3,000 population-based surveys with more than 130 million participants
Work on health inequalities focusing on the burden of malnutrition and access to treatment for stroke prevention in low and middle-income countries
Development of novel drug-resistant cell models of cancer and tools for the discovery of biomarkers for drug-resistant cancers Design of mass spectrometry methodology resulting in a new platform used to distinguish between cancerous and non-cancerous cells Research and clinical trial work in reproductive medicine, alongside analytical methodology
The Middlesex research team behind the project were led by Professor Ajit Shah, Dr Frank Hills , Dr Mariachiara Di Cesare, and Dr Britta Stordal.
The team has collaborated with universities, research centres and industry partners including: WHO Collaborating Centre on NCD Surveillance Epidemiology at Imperial College London, King’s College London, Iduron Ltd, and Ascend Diagnostics (UK).
Read Improving Health Outcomes Through Monitoring, Improving Diagnosis, and Access to Treatment Submission (PDF)
The development of new drug therapies costs up to £4bn to reach FDA approval stage however many therapies are not reliable despite this significant investment.
For example, approximately 99% of drugs administered through freely circulating methods do not reach their target site.
This work focuses on the use and understanding of gold nanoparticles (GNP) for more effective and targeted therapies with the following impacts:
Our research is focused on the use and understanding of GNP including in the delivery of therapeutic drugs which is of considerable importance for pharmaceutical research and industry.
The underpinning research looked at:
Our research team included Professor Richard Bayford , Dr Song Wen and Professor Ajit Shah.
We worked with industrial partners Emergex vaccines, Proxima Concepts and Ascend Diagnostics.
We collaborated with Imperial College London and Institute of Nano-Resolution Optics at Nanjing University.
Read Effective Methods to Study and Locate the Physical Properties of Gold Nanoparticles in Medical Application to Improve Clinical Effectiveness Submission (PDF)
This submission presented work carried out by researchers in the Department of Psychology at Middlesex University.
There are a total of 30 researchers, working in five research groups: Applied Health Psychology; Cognitive Psychology and Neuroscience; Community and Clinical Psychology; Developmental Psychology; and Sports Psychology in Action.
Every life lost to suicide on the railways is a tragedy, with immeasurable emotional costs to bereaved family and friends, as well as train drivers and other witnesses.
The suicide prevention charity Samaritans, on behalf of the rail industry, commissioned this research to develop a better understanding of how to support people in crisis and prevent future suicide attempts.
The work contributed to a decrease in suicides on the London Underground Network through practice changes, staff training and an award-winning public awareness campaign (‘Small Talk Saves Lives’).
There were also impacts in other countries, for example Germany and the Netherlands, and other contexts including other public places and Criminal Justice settings as a result.
Universities UK recognised Principal Investigator Dr Lisa Marzano as a “Nation's Lifesaver” for “saving lives and making a life-changing difference to our health and wellbeing” and she received a 'Lifesaver Award' from Transport for London.
The underpinning research has generated new evidence of why and how individuals attempt suicide on the railways and considered:
The research team included Dr Lisa Marzano , Dr Bob Fields and Ian Kruger.
Our partners included Samaritans, British Transport Police, Network Rail, Transport for London, Rail Safety Standards Board (RSSB), ProRail (Netherlands), Caritas Berlin.
Read Preventing Railway Suicide submission (PDF)
This research project focused on the psychological impact that reproductive health has on the individual and society.
It has informed national and international policy and practice in areas of mental health, employment, personal relationships and legal, ethical and human rights.
The key impacts of the research are:
The project’s impact on specific aspects of reproductive (dys)functioning – surrogate motherhood, multiple births, pregnancy loss, donor motivations, and infertility treatment – is underpinned by research work which:
The Middlesex research team behind the project consisted of Professor Olga van den Akker, Dr Satvinder Purewal, Dr Gianina Postavaru, Vilte Daugidaite, and Dr Nicola Payne .
Read Psychosocial Impacts of Reproductive Health and Wellbeing Submission (PDF)
This submission presented work carried out by researchers in the Departments of Computer Science; Design Engineering and Mathematics; and Natural Sciences at Middlesex University.
A total of 69 members of staff were involved, working in five research groups: Interaction Design; Algorithms and Software Engineering; Intelligent Environments; Networks and Distributed Systems; and Artificial Intelligence.
This research project has advanced Digital Twin (DT) research in foundational DT programming technologies and in digital twins for structural health monitoring of large-scale infrastructures.
A strong example of how Middlesex researchers collaborate with industry to address emerging problems, the project’s key impacts are:
Professor Barn and Professor Clark have developed language-based simulation and modelling techniques to design, analyse and adapt the development of complex enterprise systems.
Their construction of an executable modelling language called LEAP, together with a toolset for enterprise simulation, have addressed the unsuitability of the pre-existing approaches to DT representation of enterprise modelling as basis for simulation analysis.
This led to the creation of a novel programming language called ESL and an associated development platform called EDB which can be used to aid decision-makers.
In the area of structural health monitoring of large infrastructure artefacts, Professor Nguyen has been addressing the problem of how to detect damage and predict future maintenance requirements of large infrastructures such as bridges in collaboration with the University of Transport and Communications (UTC), Vietnam.
Professor Nguyen has developed a novel hybrid approach delivering highly accurate results in detecting damage and its severity even for multiple damage scenarios.
The resulting method is a practical end-to-end data-driven framework for automatically monitoring the operational state of structures.
The Middlesex research team behind the project consisted of Professor Balbir Barn , Professor Tony Clark, Professor Huan Nguyen, Dr Mohsin Raza, and Dr Dang Viet Hung.
Our partners included industry (Tata Consultancy Services (TCS), India), government and academia (Vietnam), and an NGO (India).
In 2019 Middlesex established the London Digital Twin Research Centre where the Smart Cyber Factory facility supplied by our partners Festo Didactic and Siemens has been building on the project’s work.
Read Digital Twin Specification, Design and Application submission (PDF)
See 'Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy' for case study
Intelligent Environments refer to systems which exist in a physical environment enriched with sensing technology and Artificial Intelligence algorithms to provide context-sensitive help to humans.
Since 2013, our Research Group has focused on specific challenges in these systems around the core concepts of contexts and context-awareness, guided by users’ specific needs within practical contexts and by their expectations from system services in those contexts.
The underpinning research includes:
Our research team behind this project consisted of Professor Juan Carlos Augusto , Carl James-Reynolds, Dr Ralph Moseley, Dr Mark Springett, and Dr Jill Stewart.
Read Intelligent Environments – Engineering and Applications submission (PDF)
This multi-disciplinary research project has focused on advancing technology for social good, particularly for marginalised young people in conflict with the law.
Bringing together different computer science, social policy and criminology, our work has made a difference locally, nationally and globally to policy and strategy, public education, and the growth of an international SME (GNB) working in the social enterprise sector.
The project’s key impacts are:
At the initiation of this research (2013), there were over 20,000 first time entrants into the youth system, with 66,430 young people forming the case load of YOTs nationally (2012 data).
To ease this workload, we envisaged the use of a personalised smartphone app to support interactions between case workers and young people.
Our research team worked closely with young people and their managers to co-design the app, adopting a value sensitive approach.
The resulting conceptual model for value sensitive concerns has formed a substantive body of research reported internationally, on what has since become an important research area.
The underpinning research included:
The Middlesex research team behind the project were Professor Balbir Barn , Professor Franco Raimondi, and Dr Giuseppe Primiero.
Our research team has worked in collaboration with several stakeholders across sectors including three Youth Offending Services in England, social enterprise Global Notice Board (GNB), and Royal Holloway, University of London.
Read Enabling Positive Engagement Between Youth Workers and Young Offenders Through Mobile Apps submission (PDF)
The VALCRI project (Visual Analytics for sense-making in Criminal Intelligence Analysis) focused on enhancing criminal and intelligence investigations by bringing together academia, law enforcement and industry from across 17 organisations throughout Europe.
The project’s output was a visual analysis system using tactile reasoning which enhances criminal and intelligence investigations and its key impacts were:
Police intelligence analysts only ever have fragmented data from which to investigate cases and pre-empt terrorist attacks.
They also operate in large numbers of datasets and volumes of data, and when they discover relevant information, they assemble evidential chains and narratives that must create a convincing argument and be able to withstand interrogation in court.
Police therefore need a combination of tools to discover relevant data across vast data sets.
VALCRI’s impact stemmed from its development of technology which addressed this problem by allowing users to interact fluidly with the data and task at hand, using a radically different user-interface based on the concept of tactile reasoning, while ensuring analytic rigour.
As a result, hypotheses can be formulated and tested quickly, enabling investigators to discard or modify their hypotheses within minutes and hours, rather than days and weeks.
The project was underpinned by Professor Wong’s research into the representation design of information and the interaction design of user interfaces to support human decision making in complex dynamic environments.
The invention of interaction design INVISQUE (2009) – the interactive visual search and query environment that makes information graspable, enabling ‘tactile reasoning’, an epistemic action that facilitates sense-making and decision making – in combination with other visual analytics research projects including the UKVAC (UK Visual Analytics Consortium) and the EPSRC MakingSense project (2010-13) drove the design of VALCRI.
The research team at Middlesex University consisted of Professor B.L.
William Wong, Dr Neesha Kodagoda, Dr Chris Rooney, Patrick Seidler, and Stefan Lozovanu.
The VALCRI consortium – led by Professor Wong – comprised 9 universities and research organisations, 5 Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs), and 3 Law Enforcement Agencies (LEAs) from across Europe, bringing together 103 scientists and engineers with a diverse set of expertise.
Read Intelligence-led Policing using VALCRI Visual Analytics Technology submission (PDF)
The submission presented work carried out by researchers in the Departments of Natural Sciences; Design Engineering and Mathematics; and Mental Health and Social Work, as well as the School of Law at Middlesex University.
A total of 21 researchers work within our two internationally-facing research centres, the Flood Hazard Research Centre and Urban Pollution Research Centre, as well as within research groups including: Ecology, Environmental Assessment and Resource Management, Risks and Hazards and Urban Geography.
The average annual cost of flooding in the UK is £1.3 billion.
Part of the UK’s response to tackling urban flooding was adoption of the Flood and Water Management Act (2010) recommending the use of sustainable urban drainage systems (SuDS) in all new and re-developments.
The greater use of blue green infrastructure (BGI) such as SuDS is seen as essential to solving urban and climate challenges.
Our research has directly contributed to the recognition of SuDS as core components of BGI and providers of multiple ecosystem services within urban areas, making an impact on:
Middlesex’s impact on legislation, policy development and urban planning addressing is underpinned by research which has:
Our research team included Professor Lian Lundy , Dr Meri Juntti , Professor Mike Revitt, Professor Bryan Ellis, and Professor David Ball.
Read Working with Nature to Enhance Urban Liveability: The Multi-functional Role of Urban Blue Green Infrastructure
More than five million properties in England are at some degree of flood risk, with many more people and communities affected across the UK and globally.
Estimations of this flood risk and its social and economic impacts, as well as the benefits of interventions, are required to justify investment in crucial flood risk management work.
The Flood Hazard Research Centre (FHRC) has carried out pioneering research on flood loss assessment methodologies over the past 40 years.
These flood impact methodologies, models, data and tools, developed from the research, are considered industry best practice and are utilised to make investment decisions.
Our research and outputs are available directly to licensed users via a bespoke website.
The impacts include:
Our body of research looks at a number of interconnected areas:
The research team at Middlesex included Dr Sally Priest , Dr Christophe Viavattene, Professor Edmund Penning-Rowsell, Sue Tapsell, Professor Dennis Parker, Damon Owen, and Sylvia Tunstall.
Our research has informed the work of Defra, National Flood Forum, Environment Agency, Scottish Environmental Protection Agency, Committee on Climate Change as well as consultant engineers including Arup, Capita, Jacobs, JBA Consulting, RMS and insurers such as Flood Re.
Read Reducing the Impact of Flooding on Society: Risk Assessment Methodologies and Data for Flood Risk Management and Investment submission (PDF)
This submission presented seven impact case studies carried out by 96 members of staff from the Centre for Enterprise and Economic Development Research (CEEDR) and the Departments of Accounting and Finance; Marketing Enterprise and Tourism; Economics; and Management, Leadership and Organisations at Middlesex University.
Society continues to face the urgent issue of how to tackle race discrimination by employers.
Through this research, we have successfully proposed replacing existing voluntary approaches to race discrimination in the NHS with a strategy of data-driven accountability and regulatory scrutiny.
This has led to large-scale changes throughout the NHS.
These research impacts on NHS policy flowed most immediately flowed from:
The implementation of the WRES in turn impacted on BME staff in the NHS through:
Research at Middlesex University on developing and safeguarding worker rights, including health and safety, the enforcement of the national minimum wage and whistleblowing, has demonstrated the shortcomings in voluntary approaches to changing workplace behaviours.
Roger Kline’s research on solutions to this problem identified an approach using data-driven accountability linked to contractual compulsion and regulatory scrutiny.
This approach was developed in the light  of trade union  and  HR  services’ failure  to  address the challenges facing staff within  the  culture  of  the  NHS.
The findings of this analysis underpinned further research, leading up to the ‘The Snowy White Peaks of the NHS’ and the WRES.
Subsequent research by Kline and others has included analysis of the substantial financial cost of bullying and harassment to the NHS in England which disproportionately impacts BME staff, and an investigation into the disproportionate referrals of some groups of doctors, notably BME doctors, to the General Medical Council.
The research team at Middlesex included Roger Kline, Professor Philip James, Professor Richard Croucher, Professor David Lewis , Dr Ian Roper and Professor Suzan Lewis.
Partners and collaborators include NHS England, Care Quality Commission, General Medical Council, Nursing and Midwifery Council and the Professional Standards Authority.
Read Improving the treatment of Black and Minority Ethnic (BME) staff in the NHS submission
Small and medium enterprises (SMEs) – from start-ups to rapid scale-up businesses – contribute hugely to the UK economy.
The challenge of addressing these enterprises’ access to finance for innovation has become central to UK economic policy.
Our research has demonstrated the significant role that public co-finance venture capital can play in meeting early-stage funding gaps for potential high growth and innovative SMEs.
This has impacted the economy and innovation in two areas:
Expansion in scale and scope of public co-finance venture capital provision – resulting in new funds such as the £25m London Co-investment Fund for Series A commercialisation and the £400m UK Treasury uplift of investment into the British Business Bank’s (BBB) flagship Enterprise Capital Funds, which have since assisted several hundred potential high growth (PHG) UK SMEs.
Creation and development of more effective innovative SME finance schemes.
Here, examples include our early evaluations of the BBB Angel Co-Fund and Innovate UK (IUK) Investment Accelerator Pilot, with both programmes subsequently gaining multi-million pound additional public funding and focusing more on UK regional development for levelling-up – leveraging hundreds of millions of private investment into several hundred PHG UK SMEs.
Analysis of the growth needs of SMEs, particularly in relation to access to finance, has been central to the work of the Centre for Enterprise and Economic Development Research (CEEDR) at Middlesex for over 25 years.
Their findings from multiple studies identified what SME finance schemes needed to address:
Role of public co-finance venture capital – including its positive impact, the imbalance between supply and demand and the importance of developing greater regional finance access across the UK Issues to inform their development – including finance demand and SME investment readiness, lack of integration between funding streams and improving targeting for green finance support – CEEDR advised BEIS on the establishment of their £20m Clean Growth Fund.
The research team at Middlesex included Dr Robyn Owen (previously Baldock), Professor David North, Dr Suman Lodh and early career researchers such as Dr Maja Savic and Dr Theresa Harrer.
The team worked with BBB, BEIS, IUK, London’s Mayor, Greater London Authority and Local Enterprise Partnership and Oxford Innovation.
Read Transformation of the Financing and Support for Early Stage SME Innovation submission (PDF)
Research led by Professor David Lewis has been vital in the transformation of the protection available to whistleblowers both nationally and internationally.
Between 2014 and 2020, his work further raised the public profile of the significance of whistleblowing, advancing human rights and justice, with particular impact on two areas:
Our Business School has spearheaded research on whistleblowing since the 1990s, with Lewis developing a body of research which has made major contributions to promoting employer good practice and shaping government legislation and guidelines.
This impact is underpinned by findings from Lewis’ various research projects, and critical reviews, including:
Hosted at Middlesex by Professor David Lewis since 2009, the International Whistleblowing Research Network (IWRN) – which now comprises over 200 researchers, practitioners and policymakers from across the world – has encouraged networking and dissemination of research and good practice.
Read Improving the Protection of Whistleblowers submission (PDF)
Since 2005, a programme of research conducted by researchers in our Business School has explored issues of unlawful under- and non-payment of wages and the challenges of effective regulation in low paid sectors of the labour market, addressing the scarcity of research in Britain into the under- and non-payment of wages.
The wage theft issue has been made more visible through our research.
Our work has contributed to a fairer and more equitable society by advancing arrangements for the enforcement of workers’ rights.
Its key impacts are:
Our research has produced robust evidence on the scale of the issue of the non-payment of wages by employers, amounting to £3.1 billion annually.
Findings and recommendations from our work have directly informed government employment rights enforcement policy.
Oganisations seeking to advance the interests of vulnerable workers have also used our findings, raising public debate on the issue.
This impact resulted from underpinning research on:
Our research team included Nick Clark, Professor Philip James, Professor Richard Croucher, Eva Herman, and Professor Brad Blitz.
We collaborated and engaged across sectors, including with academia, numerous trade unions (including Unite and GMB), NGOs, the Gangmasters and Labour Abuse Authority, the Low Pay Commission and providers of legal advice providers (e.g.
Citizens’ Advice Bureau and Thompsons Solicitors).
Read Detecting and Improving the Recovery of Unpaid Wages Submission (PDF)
Social enterprises in the UK and internationally face major challenges to their establishment, survival and growth.
Research undertaken by our Centre for Enterprise and Economic Development Research (CEEDR) resulted in changes to practice and public policy, enabling growth of the social enterprise sector and generating impact in three ways:
Since 2005, a series of research projects within CEEDR in Middlesex University’s Business School have made a significant contribution to understanding how social enterprises grow and how support provision is best designed and organised.
Our early research on strategic change in SE focused on concerns regarding lack of growth exhibited by many small enterprises.
This has been further developed since 2016 by Middlesex researchers working with the international Centre for the Understanding of Sustainable Prosperity (CUSP), as well as through 18 further relevant contract research projects in collaboration with non-academic partners and commissioning bodies, including the Government Office for Civil Society at DCMS.
The impact of this programme of research was underpinned by key findings on:
Our research team consisted of Professor Fergus Lyon, Dr Ian Vickers, Dr Leandro Sepulveda , Dr Sara Calvo, Dr Robyn Owen (previously Baldock), and Dr Bianca Stumbitz .
Some of the research was undertaken in collaboration with academic partners, social change and community interest organisations, and governmental bodies.
Read Creating and Growing Social Enterprise submission (PDF)
The introduction of a Living Wage (LW) is recognised within public debate as an important mechanism to address problems arising from low wages and rising social inequality.
Our research on the adoption and implementation of the LW by employers has shifted debate nationally and internationally, resulting in the following key impacts:
Research at our Business School on this topic started in 2005 with a study of the historic introduction of the National Minimum Wage in the UK, a hotly-debated initiative.
This was followed by a stream of research into the ethical and social responsibility of business.
The growth of low-wage jobs and absence/very low levels of legally binding minimum wages led civil society organisations in several economies (including UK, Canada, Ireland, USA) to urge employers to implement a LW rate calculated on ‘basic living costs’.
However, the advancement of this agenda was hindered by the lack of robust research evidence into the impact of LW on businesses.
Working with the University of Liverpool, Middlesex addressed this problem through a programme of research starting in 2014 into the adoption of the voluntary LW by organisations.
The research was innovative in its attention on the impacts of LW at an organisational level, and its particular focus on small and medium-sized enterprises.
Our findings and insights enabled campaigning organisations nationally and globally to produce a robustly evidenced case with which they engaged with employers, national and local governments and intergovernmental organisations to promote LWs.
Our research provided evidence on:
Our research team consisted of Dr Andrea Werner , Professor Richard Croucher, and Professor Marian Rizov.
Dr Werner worked together with Dr Ming Lim (University of Liverpool) for the programme of research into the adoption of the voluntary LW by organisations.
Read Encouraging Adoption of the Living Wage by Employers submission (PDF)
Reproduction and employment issues are increasingly prominent in discussions about inclusive development, particularly since the launch of the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
However, there is a scarcity of knowledge around maternity protection and sexual and reproductive health rights, particularly within small and medium-sized enterprises and informal economy workplaces in low and middle-income countries in the Global South.
Across nine projects, we addressed this scarcity and made an impact through:
Researchers in the Business School’s Gender and Diversity Research Cluster established:
The research team at Middlesex included Dr Bianca Stumbitz, Dr Lilian Miles, Professor Suzan Lewis, Dr Tim Freeman and Professor Fergus Lyon .
They worked with international organisations including International Labour Organisation, World Health Organisation, United Nations, British Academy and British Council and UNICEF.
This submission presented three impact case studies carried out by 32 members of staff in the School of Law and the European Human Rights Advocacy Centre (EHRAC) at Middlesex University.
Applied legal research undertaken by the European Human Rights Advocacy Centre (EHRAC) based at Middlesex has provided strategic direction to litigation at the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR) against states in the post-Soviet region.
Since 2014, EHRAC has been instrumental not only in extending human rights protection in the region but also in strengthening the rule of law in Europe and developing jurisprudence internationally.
Key impacts of its work include:
EHRAC’s unique institutional status within a university enables academic research to work in synergy with ground-breaking strategic litigation.
Comprising 16 lawyers and programme staff who mentor litigating human rights NGOs and lawyers in Russia, Georgia, Ukraine, Azerbaijan and Armenia, EHRAC exposes systemic violations in respect of post-conflict societies, state surveillance, judicial independence, political prosecutions and gender-based violence, among other areas.
Our litigation impact is underpinned by Professor Leach’s and Dr Donald’s joint and individual work, including analyses of and research into:
Our research team consisted of Professor Philip Leach and Dr Alice Donald .
Their body of work included collaboration with research associates and investigators across disciplines in the UK and other European countries.
Read Strengthening Human Rights and the Rule of Law within the Council of Europe Region submission (PDF)
Indigenous cultures are under threat of extinction because of the way development is being imposed on them, destroying their land and way of life.
Despite some significant progress, many indigenous peoples are still not recognised by national governments.
This presents enormous challenges to indigenous peoples’ rights to lands, territories, and resources.
Likewise, minorities worldwide face exclusion, discrimination and denial of their fundamental economic, social and cultural rights.
We analysed international and comparative law for a comprehensive survey of discrimination against indigenous peoples and minorities.
This work has had the following impacts:
This research has brought about significant impacts for minorities and indigenous peoples by:
The research team includes Professor Joshua Castellino, Dr Elvira Domínguez-Redondo, and Dr Cathal Doyle.
Other organisations involved or implicated include UN human rights mechanisms, SOMO/The Centre for Research on Multinational Corporations, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, the International Human Rights Institute, the Minority Rights Group and indigenous peoples’ organizations in Peru, Brazil, Colombia, Suriname and Kenya.
We collaborated with litigating organisations in India, Argentina, Germany and Mexico, and with judiciaries and legislative assemblies in India, Morocco, Bangladesh, Venezuela and Europe.
Read Minorities, Indigenous Peoples and Vulnerable Groups: Defining International Standards, Shaping National Policy and Realizing Local Remedies submission (PDF)
In recent years the EU has witnessed a significant breakdown in compliance with the rule of law.
This research examined and documented these systematic and co-ordinated efforts by some national authorities to dismantle checks and balances and to establish one-party states, with a special focus on the situation in Hungary and Poland.
Our findings and recommendations into this urgent problem have been reflected, and even transposed directly, into legislative wording and judicial decision-making by European courts.
They have been drawn on in the agenda-setting activity of policymakers, judicial networks, research bodies, think tanks, and civil society organisations.
We have also contributed to shaping public opinion through coverage in broadcast media nationally and internationally and when adopted or contested by engaged online groups.
Professor Laurent Pech’s publications focus on the rule of law in Hungary and Poland.
Dr Joelle Grogan has addressed the rule of law implications of Brexit and the COVID-19 pandemic.
With Dr Joseph Corkin, all were members of Reconnect, a H2020 consortium project between 2018 and 2022, and of which Pech was Principal Investigator of the work package dedicated to rule of law which included an award of nearly €320k to Middlesex.
Through publications and consultancy and public engagement with professionals, Pech and Grogan’s research has:
The research team includes Professor Laurent Pech and Dr Joelle Grogan.
Their work has been cited and used by the European Parliament, European Court of Justice and EU Commission as well as courts in the Netherlands and Poland.
Read Challenging Rule of Law Backsliding in the European Union
This submission presented work carried out by researchers in the School of Law and the Departments of Criminology and Sociology; Mental Health and Social Work; Adult, Child and Midwifery; Psychology; and Marketing Enterprise and Tourism at Middlesex University.
A total of 45 members of staff were involved in these four impact case studies, working in three research groups: Informing Professional Interventions; Crime, Conflict, and Human Security; and Social Justice, Inequality and Migration
Research undertaken at Middlesex University on criminal justice system responses to animal abuse and animal law enforcement has made a significant impact in two principal areas, dog-fighting and dangerous dogs, through:
Between 2013 and 2020, our research team conducted and published a stream of research on Animals and Society which focused on animal abuse and animal crime, investigating in particular how animal protection law and policy is affected by policy changes, including Brexit.
The following three specific projects, undertaken between 2015 and 2020, have led to direct review of improvements in policy on dangerous dogs, developed best practice guidelines, and established links between animal abuse and human violence:
The Middlesex research team included Dr Angus Nurse, Dr Carly Guest, Dr Lilian Miles, and Dr Simon Harding.
One of the underpinning research projects was carried out in collaboration with Professor Tanya Wyatt (Northumbria University).
Read Animals & Society: Introducing a Green Criminological Dimension to Public Policy submission (PDF)
Cultural competence is the ability to respond effectively to people from different cultures and backgrounds, resulting in the delivery of services that meet the cultural and communication needs of patients.
It is seen as crucial for high quality, patient and client-centred care.
Middlesex Professor Irena Papadopoulos and colleague have created the content, models and guidelines for a culturally competent robot, and collaborated with partners who enabled the software’s application and operationalisation.
The key impacts of our research are on:
The open-source documents and software that details the framework and content for cultural knowledge representation, and for culturally sensitive planning and execution, on the part of the CARESSES humanoid socially assistive robot is underpinned by 25 years  research by the Middlesex University’s Research Centre for Transcultural Studies in Health, headed by Professor Papadopoulos into cultural competence in healthcare and education delivery, including:
The Middlesex research team was led by Professor Rena Papadopoulos and assisted by Dr Christina Koulouglioti.
CARESSES was undertaken by a multi-disciplinary research team comprising Middlesex University, the University of Bedfordshire, the University of Genoa (Italy) and Örebro University (Sweden).
Three Japanese universities (Nagoya, Chubu and Japan Advanced Institute of Science and Technology) and two EU-based commercial companies (SOFTBANK robotics and ADVINIA) were also involved.
Read Cultural Competence and Client Centred Care: The CARESSES Project: Enabling the Development of ‘Culturally Competent’ Artificially Intelligent Socially Assistive Humanoid Robots submission (PDF)
This case study’s research findings and recommendations have informed important legislative, policy, education and policing changes relating to children and young people across the UK, as well as police practice and training for  front line practitioners internationally.
The project’s key impacts include:
Our research team investigated how internet access may compound risks children face that, if unmanaged, could undermine their wellbeing.
Their work also highlighted gaps in policing practice, and differences in risk of solicitation across adolescents and received extensive national and international media coverage for providing the first incontrovertible evidence that viewing pornography affects the behaviour of young people.
These impacts result from research focusing on the online exploitation of children and their exposure to harmful content, including on:
Our research team included Dr Elena Martellozzo, Professor Miranda Horvath, Dr Jeffrey DeMarco, Professor Joanna Adler, Professor Julia Davidson, Dr Anna Gekoski, Dr Rodolfo Leyva, and Dr Andy Monaghan.
Read Improving Children’s Digital Experiences and Reducing Real-World Exploitation submission (PDF)
The Exchanging Prevention practices on Polydrug use among youth In Criminal justice systems (EPPIC) project addressed the research gap in drugs prevention policy and practice in relation to young people (aged 14-25) in contact with the criminal justice system (CJS).
Bringing together expertise from academics and practitioners in the UK and abroad, the project has provided new insights into drug use among young people in the criminal justice system and new tools for practitioners to enable more effective engagement of young people in interventions and more effective service responses.
Its main impacts, with focus on the Middlesex contribution, are:
The project’s development is underpinned by findings from studies undertaken by the research team since 2007 on risk and prevention, substance use among marginalised groups and young people, and the interface between substance use and the CJS.
Middlesex involvement in seven cross-national European research projects and collaborative networks between 2005 and 2016 had provided the necessary infrastructure, partnerships, and knowledge to lead on and deliver EPPIC from January 2017.
The research team addressed the lack of prior research in the area by:
Our research team consists of Professor Betsy Thom , Professor Karen Duke , Dr Rachel Herring , and Dr Helen Gleeson from the Drug and Alcohol Research Centre at Middlesex University.
The broad international knowledge exchange network which we initiated, brought together experts from across the UK national third sector service providers (including Home Office and Public Health England), EU institutions (including from European Monitoring Centre on Drugs and Drug Addiction (EMCDDA) and European Commission), and international institutions (e.g.
the United Nations Interregional Crime and Justice Research Institute (UNICRI) and WHO).
Read Drug Interventions for Young People in Contact with the Criminal Justice System: Transforming Practice Among Practitioners submission (PDF)
This submission presented work carried out by 16 members of staff in the Department of Education at Middlesex University.
The Prevent policy is primarily a security policy to counter extremism and terrorism, but it has also been translated into education and other services.
Middlesex researchers in Education have developed a robust argument for framing the Prevent policy in more explicitly educational terms and have contributed evidence that schools can engage productively with critical exploration of British values in the context of citizenship education rather than the ‘promotion’ of values and surveillance of young people.
This approach was supported by national teacher organisations and has now been endorsed by the Department for Education through their funding and recognised in Ofsted inspections, indicating a shift in focus.
Further, it has reached hundreds of teachers and has proven to have a beneficial impact in engaging students in critical citizenship education.
Empirical work shows that teachers have largely implemented Prevent as a safeguarding policy and commonly teach the fundamental British Values’ (FBVs) uncritically.
Our research team has worked collaboratively with external partners to shift the discourse towards critical citizenship education and treating Prevent as a controversial issue in the classroom, with impact resulting from work including:
Our research team included Dr Lee Jerome , Dr Linda Whitworth, Dr Alex Elwick and Raza Kazim.
Colleagues have worked with schools and a range of professional bodies including the Association for Citizenship Teaching (ACT), the Expert Subject Advisory Group for Citizenship (ESAG) and the English Speaking Union (ESU).
Read Establishing a Critical Educational Response to the Prevent Duty in Schools submission (PDF)
Gender stereotyping in schools is a longstanding problem which has serious implications for pupil confidence, academic attainment, emotional intelligence, behaviour and later life outcomes.
Middlesex Professor Jayne Osgood has consistently informed teachers and school leaders who are keen to address discriminatory practices in school through research to support interventions that directly challenge gender stereotyping in schools.
Her research has made the following impact:
Professor Osgood was expert consultant for the development of a two-part Documentary Series for the BBC concerning gender stereotyping in primary schools.
From the original design of the programme through to final airing, Professor Osgood provided expert direction to the production team on the development and execution of specific interventions and experiments to tackle gender stereotyping, and on essential resources.
Her expertise and insights were underpinned by her research outputs on gender and childhood since 2007, including:
Research at Middlesex was undertaken by Professor Jayne Osgood .
For the documentary, Professor Osgood worked with Outline Productions, a TV production company commissioned by the BBC, and teachers and pupils in the participating primary school.
Read Tackling Gender Stereotyping in Childhood: Research to Support Gender Neutral Schooling submission (PDF)
This submission presented work carried out by researchers in the London Sports Institute (LSI) and the Departments of Natural Sciences; and Design Engineering and Mathematics at Middlesex University.
A total of 10 researchers were involved across three research groups: Performance Analysis; Strength & Conditioning; and Physical and Mental Health.
Our research on athletic development in fencing has challenged traditional practices through a research- and evidence-based ideology.
Working closely with coaches and athletes from GBR fencing, Dr Turner’s research has spurred improvements in performance, preparation, and coaching in fencing, as well as influenced physical training in other sports, around the world.
The key impacts include:
Research on elite athletes is inherently difficult.
Athletes and their coaches are generally hesitant to participate in research due to reluctance to change their normal training, as changes can often contradict the traditional approaches they have used.
Dr Turner overcame this by undertaking a series of graduated studies, from observational analysis through to gathering data from athletes during live international competitions, and finally requiring athletes to deliberately change their practice.
More specifically, the impact of this case study is underpinned by research on the:
The research work was led by Dr Anthony Turner , in close collaboration with coaches and athletes from GBR fencing.
Read The Physical Preparation of GBR Fencers for the 2016 Rio Olympics and Beyond submission (PDF)
Small changes in elite performance can have dramatic effects and attention to fine detail is crucial to making champions.
Informed by science, performance analysts enhance elite coaches’ decisions by presenting performance visually, highlighting patterns and providing systematic reviews of opponents and other performance-related insight.
Our performance analysis-based research findings resulted in improved preparation and performance of athletes competing at the 2016 Olympic and Paralympic games, 2014 and 2018 Commonwealth games, and the 2015 and 2019 Rugby World Cups.
We achieved this impact through the:
Impact has resulted from the introduction of performance analysis interventions that have changed behaviour in elite sport practice.
It has been achieved through working in close collaboration with several elite sports organisations and players nationally and internationally, including England National squash squads and elite players, UK Sport, and High Performance Sport New Zealand.
Research findings were also utilised by GB Olympic and Paralympic teams, through further advisory work with individual analysts and the delivery of specific workshops.
Our researchers produced knowledge through projects which:
Middlesex Professor Nic James led on this body of research, parts of which were undertaken in collaboration with researchers in the UK and abroad.
Read Changed Behaviour in Elite Sport Practice through Performance Analysis Interventions submission (PDF)
This submission presented work carried out by researchers in the Department of Design and the Deparment of Visual Arts at Middlesex University.
A total of 42 members of staff were involved in these case studies, working in eight research groups: Making Places; Art Practice as Investigation; CREATE – Feminisms; Diasporic and Transcultural Practices; Animation, Electronic and Digital Arts; Science Fiction Research Cluster; Socially Engaged Practices; Visual and Material Cultures and Curating.
Middlesex Professor Jon Bird is recognised as the leading authority on the art of Leon Golub.
Through collaboration with the museum and gallery sector, Professor Bird’s research has made the following impact:
The impact is a result of the wide reach and significance of Professor Bird’s work, which is evident in the high profile of the museums and galleries he has worked with, as well as the critical reception, media coverage and audience figures for the exhibitions he has curated and written for.
This is underpinned by sustained research commencing in the 1980s and continuing to the present day whose results include:
This research project was undertaken by Professor Jon Bird.
His work was enriched by his long-term working relationship with Leon Golub.
Read Curating Leon Golub: Extending Global Understanding of Golub’s Art, Benefitting the Museum and Gallery Sector, Arts Audiences and the Commercial Art World submission (PDF)
Active Energy originated in 2007 as an arts-based response to research that the highlighted the exclusion of older people from technological development.
The project is a long-term partnership with The Geezers, an East London senior men’s group, to harness community initiative and use participatory arts practice to access locally held knowledge to create social and environmental change.
It has resulted in the design and realisation of engineered solutions which utilise tidal power to produce low cost, clean energy.
The underpinning research by Dr Loraine Leeson focuses on the role of art in social and environmental change through bringing community-based knowledge into the public domain.
The ongoing Active Energy partnership with the Geezers has designed a low cost turbine for the River Thames, worked with young people in a local school on a wind turbine, collaborated with a seniors’ group in Pittsburgh, contributed to three University research projects and produced floating water wheels to keep fish alive when pollution levels rise, the last installed in 2019 in the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park.
Leeson has also used this community-based arts approach to promote traditional solutions to water scarcity in Rajasthan, India’s driest state.
Dr Loraine Leeson led the research at Middlesex working with AgeUK in Bow and Bow schools.
Dr Leeson also engaged with a major gallery in the US, and collaborated with researchers at the University of the West of England and NGOs in India.
Read Active Energy: Community Action Through the Arts submission (PDF)
The Suffolk coast is particularly vulnerable to change.
A shift in weather patterns in tandem with a rise in mean sea level has accelerated the loss of property through coastal erosion and increased the frequency of flooding due to surge tide events.
Our research has addressed the urgent need to reconfigure the local community’s relationship with their landscape by generating an integrated approach to landscape decision making for stakeholder communities which had an impact on:
Middlesex Associate Professor of Fine Art, Simon Read, contributed to the efficacy of environmental policy and community uptake by developing an inclusive, multi-disciplinary approach to estuarine and coastal management.
This approach brought together the cultural, scientific and policy communities, balancing cultural and emotional attachment to landscape and the economic stability of communities, with the need for flood risk management and habitat protection.
The impact achieved was underpinned by art practice-led research within collaborative interdisciplinary partnerships across two strands of enquiry:
This research was undertaken by Dr Simon Read.
Parts of the project were a result of his collaboration with a range of partners, including universities (e.g.
Cardiff University, Plymouth Marine Laboratory, UCL, Centre for Ecology and Hydrology, Bangor), community stakeholders groups (e.g.
Deben Estuary Partnership), local authority (e.g.
East Suffolk Council), industry, and statutory agencies (e.g.
Environment Agency, Suffolk Yacht Harbour, Suffolk Coast and Heaths AONB Unit).
Read The process and the product: Discreet partnerships and the cultural dimension in effective landscape governance submission (PDF)
This submission presented work carried out by 32 members of staff in the Departments of Performing Arts and Media at Middlesex University.
For over ten years the research has crossed contested histories and political and cultural borders bringing together over 300 participants to engage in creative processes, performances, conferences and forums.
Forty-five new dance works have been created reaching over 9,000 audience members and over 38,000 people online.
In one of world’s most sensitive geopolitical and militarised zones, Professor Christopher Bannerman worked with Beijing and Taipei colleagues to lead the Intercultural Dialogic Exchange research project and artistic collaboration that brought together creatives to stimulate dialogue and change.
The impact in mainland China was:
In 2009, the research partnership began between ResCen Research Centre, Middlesex University and Beijing Dance Academy.
With funding from the Arts and Humanities Research Council in 2011, the Taipei National University of the Arts joined and the exchange developed new understandings and insights by weaving together perspectives from practice and theory to initiate an intercultural dialogic exchange in, about and through artistic practices.
Key aspects of the project included:
At Middlesex, Professor Christopher Bannerman was London Curator and Director alongside Beijing Curators and Directors Professors GUO Lei and XU Rui, President and Vice President respectively of Beijing Dance Academy and Taipei Curator and Director WANG Yunyu, Taipei National University of the Arts.
The research team included Dr Ola Johansson, Dr Alexandra Kolb, Professor Vida Midgelow, and Dr Stefanie Sachsenmaier from Middlesex; Martin Welton, Queen Mary University of London, and Rebecca Loukes, University of Exeter, with additional researchers from Beijing and Taipei.
Read Inter/Transcultural Dialogic Exchange (IDE): Making Change Across Political and Cultural Borders Through Artistic Collaboration submission (PDF)
Created, produced and written by Dr James Kenworth, and directed by Dr James Martin Charlton, both long-term residents of Newham, the Newham Plays are a series of localist-focused plays rooted in Newham’s history, culture and people.
Performed in site-sympathetic locations in Newham, East London, they feature a ‘mixed economy’ casting of young people and professional actors.
The series, which contributed to addressing historically low levels of cultural engagement in the Borough, has originated a Pro-Localist approach to cultural engagement, in which the plays are partnered and supported by local funders, partners and stakeholders.
Its key impact includes:
The London Borough of Newham (population 353,134) experiences significant economic and social challenges, including poverty affecting one in two children and cultural engagement significantly below the national average.
Middlesex contributed to redressing this problem by contending that a localist and grassroots approach is the most effective way to widen access to the arts, and by arguing for an increased emphasis on performance in local spaces rather than in prestige or heritage theatres.
Our impact is underpinned by a coherent body of research practice and engagement resulting from the Newham Plays – a series of four plays developed through our Department of Media’s collaboration with the community of Newham between 2012 and 2019 (only the three most recent plays were submitted to REF 2021).
Through our successful, long-term partnership with three local schools, we helped approximately 250 young people from diverse backgrounds, such as Asian, Black, African, Caribbean or Black British, to develop skills and self-belief by acting in the shows and partaking in a range of associated activities.
Working with schools’ drama teachers, we identified talented and enthusiastic pupils, and ran auditions and workshops as part of their drama classes.
Crucially, after each show we offered a series of free drama workshops which engaged pupils in an exploration of the plays’ themes and issues.
Our research team comprises Dr James Martin Charlton and Dr James Kenworth .
Their three plays submitted were partnered and supported by local grassroots organizations and charities The Royal Docks Trust, Community Links, and Ambition, Aspire, Achieve.
The plays were delivered in collaboration with Gallions Primary School, Kingsford Community School, and Royal Docks Academy.
Read The Newham Plays: Enhancing Cultural Provision, Developing Young People’s Talent/Skills, and Benefiting Local Organisations Through Pro-Localist, Site-Local, New Writing submission (PDF)
Research undertaken at Middlesex by Professor Vida Midgelow has changed the way movement artists and teachers undertake and facilitate creative practices, increasing their understanding and confidence.
Her work has revealed gaps in awareness and provision of Artistic Research in Doctoral Education, identifying a need for a co-ordinated approach across academic and arts sectors.
The impact was generated on three key areas:
This research has benefited dance artists, students and teachers, arts organisations and universities in the UK, Finland, Ireland, and Sweden.
Professor Midgelow has transformed creative practice and university education by advancing both the conceptualisation of practice in the sphere of postgraduate pedagogy and its application and dissemination in academic and non-academic contexts.
This provided processes, benchmarks and an aspiration in respect of what constitutes rigorous practice procedures and effective environments.
More specifically, impact was underpinned by research:
Middlesex Professor Vida Midgelow undertook this research, in collaboration at different stages of her work with academia and industry in the UK and abroad, including key partner Dance4.
Read Advancing Movement Practices in Doctoral and Professional Contexts submission (PDF)
This submission presented work carried out by 20 members of staff in the Departments of Media; Performing Arts; and Criminology and Sociology at Middlesex University.
Despite increasing emphasis on online access in the public and private sphere, the digital divide is widening, with 52% of the workforce (17.2 million) lacking essential digital skills for work (Lloyds Digital Index, 2020).
Middlesex research has used creativity to provide an adaptable model for effective and future-proofing digital upskilling which has made the following impact:
Change in the digital sphere is rapid, and equipment and discrete digital skills can quickly become obsolete.
However, digital upskilling largely centres on provision of online access, equipment and/or technical training.
Undertaken by Dr Josie Barnard, our research has identified that this approach alongside entrenched assumptions of ‘digital natives’ were inhibiting progress in enabling digital skills acquisition.
Its impact is underpinned by the following research projects, located within writing practice, which analysed problems of ‘digital exclusion’ and provided solutions to digital skills acquisition with an emphasis on creativity and humanisation:
Research at Middlesex was undertaken by Dr Josie Barnard.
Read Bridging the Digital Divide: Creativity Research Resulting in Digital Upskilling submission (PDF)
This research looked at the potential opportunities and challenges which blockchain technology offers the music industry.
The work by our Blockchain for the Creative Industries cluster led to the report ‘Music on the Blockchain’ acclaimed as “the most in-depth look so far at how the music industry can benefit from blockchain technology”.
Impacts of the report across the music sector included:
Beneficiaries have included creators, digital entrepreneurs, incumbent music businesses and governmental authorities
Our researchers considered where blockchain could be transformative for the music industry, as well as highlighting barriers to adoption, and some disadvantages.
They worked in an interdisciplinary way and in partnership with music industry professionals.
We identified four areas where blockchain technology has potential for the music industry:
These research findings were communicated so that all potential adopters and sponsors of the technology could use and understand them
The research team included Marcus O’Dair, Dr Richard Osborne and Dr Zuleika Beaven.
The team worked with David Neilson, a computer scientist at Middlesex, Paul Pacifico then CEO of the music industry trade body Featured Artists Coalition, and Nick Mason, the drummer with Pink Floyd.
Read Blockchain and the Creative Industries: Investigating, Demystifying and Promoting the Uses of Distributed Ledger Technology submission (PDF)
The REF was first carried out in 2014, replacing the previous Research Assessment Exercise.
The most recent REF exercise was conducted in 2021, with the results announced in May 2022.
The REF is jointly undertaken by the four UK higher education funding bodies: Research England, the Scottish Funding Council (SFC), the Higher Education Funding Council for Wales (HEFCW), and the Department for the Economy, Northern Ireland (DfE).
It is managed by the REF team, based at Research England, and a steering group from the four funding bodies.
The results of REF 2021 have reported on the quality of our research and will inform the selective allocation of funding for research.
Middlesex University has entered all eligible staff to REF 2021, in line with our commitment to an inclusive research environment and building on the success and strengths of our REF 2014 submission.
What is the REF's purpose?
The funding bodies’ shared policy aim for research assessment is to secure the continuation of a world-class, dynamic and responsive research base across the full academic spectrum within UK higher education.
They expect that this will be achieved through the threefold purpose of the REF:
How is the REF carried out?
The REF is a process of expert review , carried out by expert panels for each of the 34 units of assessment (UoAs), under the guidance of four main panels.
Each UoA covers a subject area and may span more than one discipline.
Expert panels are made up of senior academics, international members, and rese arch users .
For each submission, three distinct elements are assessed: the quality of outputs (e.g.
publications, performances, and exhibitions), their impact beyond academia, and the environment that supports research.
Our REF Code of Practice (COP) sets out our decision-making processes for the fair, open and transparent selection of staff and associated outputs in the context of the principles of equality and diversity, and all relevant legislation.
Our COP also shows how all staff employed on academic contracts (teaching and research route, Senior Manager Academic or research only) on the REF census date (31 July 2020) who satisfied  the REF 2021 criteria for inclusion have been submitted.
See REF 2021 Guidance on codes of practice
We appointed Unit of Assessment (UoA) coordinators across the University, and the work of preparing our submission was carried out by inclusive University Panels, Faculty Committees, and UoA Working Groups.
Equality, diversity and inclusion
Equality, diversity and inclusion is at the heart of everything we do at Middlesex – including the conduct of our research – and the University has sought to ensure that characteristics of our REF 2021 submission and overall academic staffing profile reflect this.
As we prepared for REF 2021 we established a University REF Equality and Diversity Panel, chaired by the Pro Vice-Chancellor (Diversity), whose considerations follow University policy closely.
All staff involved in REF committees, panels and working groups have completed mandatory training in equality, as well as further training for the purposes of REF 2021, including unconscious bias training for all staff involved in decision making.
Find out more about Equality, Diversity and Inclusion at Middlesex
See our Equality and Diversity policy
Declaration of Individual Staff Circumstances
Our Middlesex Declaration of Individual Staff Circumstances was sent to all staff whose outputs were eligible for submission to REF2021 (see ‘Guidance on submissions’, paragraphs 117-122).
Committed to supporting equality and diversity in REF, we have put in place safe and supportive structures for staff to declare information about any equality-related circumstances that may have affected their ability to conduct their research productively during the assessment period (1 January 2014 – 31 July 2020).
Staff consultation on our Code of Practice
All academic colleagues were invited to a series of lunchtime consultation sessions on our Code of Practice in May 2019.
Staff who were unable to attend were invited to raise questions or make suggestions on how our Draft Code of Practice could be improved directly to the Director of Research or their Faculty’s Deputy Dean for Research.
Following this consultation, the Draft Code of Practice was then submitted to Academic Board for approval in June 2019.
Research integrity underpins all Middlesex research activity.
We are committed to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity, the principles of which are a key feature of our Code of Practice for Research , itself periodically reviewed along with the Ethics Policy Framework (reviewed in 2014 and 2019).
The Director of Research reports annually on research integrity to the Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee (RKEC), which then reports to the Academic Board.
This includes a review of cases of academic misconduct (investigations organised by Registry), Ethics Committee case work, training on research integrity/ethics, lessons learned and proposed actions for the coming year.
We train and support our researchers on academic and research integrity through our Researcher Development Programme of face-to-face workshops, and an online Academic Integrity Awareness Course – compulsory for newly joined staff.
Find out more about our research integrity
The REF 2021 Privacy Notice explains what personal information the University holds in relation to the REF 2021 exercise, detailing why we hold this information, what we do with it, how long we keep it for and if we share it with third parties.
This covers:
REF 2021 Privacy Notice
See also: Middlesex University Public Policy Statements
Making research publications open for public access – 'Open Access' publications – enables anyone with an internet connection to read them (free of charge) and also potentially enables their re-use (with appropriate contribution).
We encourage all of our researchers to deposit publications 'on acceptance' in the Middlesex University Research Repository in line with the University’s Open Access Publications Policy.
The University supports its staff to make their research data accessible too, and the University participated in a lively pilot project on the extension of ‘open data’ and data curation in research.
Further information about Open Access and depositing work in the Repository
REF has produced a number of publications to set out the rules for submission and provide guidance to universities, the most important of which include:
The guidance in the above three documents has been revised in response to the effects of COVID-19.
For more information, please refer to the Guidance on revisions to REF 2021 (REF 2020/02).
An overview of all changes to timeframes, along with additional published guidance and details of contingency plans for REF 2021 is available on the REF website .
REF's answers to frequently asked questions

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/kef:
The Knowledge Exchange Framework (KEF) provides information on the knowledge exchange activities of higher education providers in England.
"Knowledge exchange" is what we call the wide range of activities universities undertake with partners.
Universities across the country provide a wide range of services intended to help businesses and the community.
These services are described as 'knowledge exchange'.
They take many different forms – from licensing intellectual property to providing cultural events for the community, and from continuing professional development programmes to working with local authorities on regeneration schemes.
To help businesses, local government, charities and community groups find universities with particular strengths in these areas of knowledge exchange Research England has developed the Knowledge Exchange Framework – a part metrics, part narrative based survey of where the strengths of individual universities lie.
The KEF is not a ranking, and it assesses relative strengths in relation to other institutions of the same broad type by analysing clusters of institutions.
Middlesex is in Cluster E.
Middlesex’s KEF profile points to areas of real strength.
A dedicated KEF website allows you to find out more about Middlesex’s knowledge exchange work.
It gives access to detailed narratives – statements about how we do this work, who to contact and what to expect.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-groups:
Research centres and groups at Middlesex focus on areas of research and practice of longstanding interest at the university.
Research centres at Middlesex are drivers of our research culture and community.
Each has an established track record and external reputation for the advancement and production of high-quality research nationally and internationally.
Through programmes of challenge-led research and active external collaboration and engagement, these Research Centres generate societal impact that makes a difference.
At the heart of Middlesex’s vital research community and culture is our range of disciplinary, interdisciplinary and thematic research groups and clusters.
These are emerging groupings of research and knowledge exchange activity, each developing new research areas and interdisciplinary ways of working.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-story/our-themes:
We are a global community that takes collective action on the issues that our students - and we - care about the most.
We are guided by three themes to make the world fairer, protect our planet and help people live healthier lives.
From leading a university and government task force looking at drug use and mental health among students to our UKRI funded research to save premature babies, we support the radical transformation of health policy and approaches to its delivery.
We meet the changes needs of the future by investing in VR and AR to teach healthcare skills for the NHS in revolutionary new ways and using AI to make global health systems more resilient to threats like pandemics.
On our international campuses, we co-lead with our students to educate, innovate, and promote wellbeing across mental, physical and social health, like our collaboration to improve access to disability and mental health support for global majority students.
We work as a connected learning community towards our vision of a healthy life for everyone, across all of society.
Effective drugs prevention policy and practice makes a real difference to the futures of young people in the criminal justice system, however there has been limited research and guidance.
Our Drugs and Alcohol Research Centre (DARC) team lead the EU funded EPPIC project to address this gap and make recommendations for health, prison and social workers who help young people.
Now DARC are continuing this work in the UK with Change Grow Live - 1625 Outreach.
Their latest project looks at how outreach support can change behaviour, and in turn help us find the best ways to reduce illegal drug use.
This work is lead by DARC, with partners including Public Health England, United Nations Interregional Crime and Justice Research Institute and WHO.
We are proud to educate and support the next generation of entrepreneurs and creative talents to make their contribution to an equitable future, through initiatives like the Enterprise Development Hub in London and the Centre for Innovation and Entrepreneurship in Dubai.
Our work is at the intersection of business, culture and creativity, including our partnership with Film London and the Mayor of London’s Creative Skills Academy to help more Londoners find work in the screen industries.
We show the way for business with research into transformations for how individuals and communities work, like championing the Living Wage in the UK and improving protection for whistle blowers internationally.
We champion creative culture and the arts because they make all of our lives better.
Our students engage with academic practitioners, professional and industry leaders to improve their practice, learn about the sector and make career-starting connections, like through our innovative LinkedIn mentoring.
Our unique relationship with Canon UK, leading provider of photography equipment, is designed to help our creative students at the start of their professional careers.
Students have exclusive access to the latest products while Canon is able to test new models with future industry leaders.
Canon also share their expertise and professional networks so students can make important contacts.
This new model for engaging students with industry brings benefits to both partners by combining Canon’s philosophy of working together for the common good with our forward-thinking and inclusive approach.
The partnership is lead by Dan Sosnowski, Head of Technical and Teaching Resources for the Faculty of Arts and the Creative Industries.
We support women in Pakistan to create sustainable incomes through traditional crafts, help older people living in London to make alternative energy and work with people around the world, in response to the urgent challenges of climate change and inequitable production and consumption.
Globally our expertise influences economic, social and environmental policy and practice, like our work with the UN to safeguard the rights of indigenous people.
Locally we get out into our community to provide sustainable food and to measure air pollution.
On our campuses we set examples for other universities in carbon management and share our knowledge across sectors.
By embedding the United Nations Sustainability Development Goals on our courses, we train the next generation so they’re ready to meet tomorrow’s sustainability challenges in the workplace.
The environmentally and socially destructive practices of global fashion - from high water consumption to unfair labour practices - present an important challenge for our researchers who work on global sustainable development.
Their work is giving a voice to local communities in India and Bangladesh to help find better ways of working for the UK fashion and textiles industry.
Starting from the bottom up and looking at what's happening on the ground, we're bringing together suppliers with UK buyers, we’re aiming to reduce waste, give people better livelihoods and healthier ecosystems.
This research is lead by the Centre of Enterprise, Environment and Development Research (CEEDR).

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/business-partnerships:
We help organisations achieve their ambitions.
You can make a single or regular donation to help us provide high-quality education, fund research, and support student entrepreneurs.
We are a registered UK charity.
We have been working with leading educational institutions across the globe to deliver outstanding teaching and research for many years.
Working with enthusiastic and like-minded academics ensures students access the very latest thinking and cutting edge research around the world.
Discover how we engage and work alongside local communities in north London
Information for our international recruitment partners

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/business-partnerships/cpd-and-skills-for-your-organisation:
Middlesex offers skills development to individuals and organisations in areas in which it has profound research and practice-based knowledge.
All of us put our own knowledge into action every day – with skills we have developed in our working lives.
Skills that may be technical, commercial, managerial, social.
No organisation’s skill set is fixed.
Today’s challenges mean that no organisation or individual can afford to stop developing their skill base.
Changes in the law, in governance, technology, operating conditions, public expectations and much else mean that your organisation – and you – will need to learn how to do things afresh regularly.
Middlesex can help.
We have a lively portfolio of courses, programmes and approaches to learning – both for credit and without credit.
We offer a catalogue of training and development for your organisations, as well as exciting options for work-based learning as your career develops.
We also offer organisations large and small the opportunity to send groups of staff to programmes, commission new skills development for your organisation directly, or bespoke solutions based on your tendered requirements.
And we can help advise you on how to develop an integrated skills development portfolio for you and your organisation.
Middlesex has developed a reputation for offering a vibrant catalogue of skills development activities.
We’re a leading centre for research and practice in work based learning.
Our Centre for Apprenticeships and Skills is a renowned leader in the development of new pathways for learning; and our Continuing Professional Development (CPD) offer embraces programmes in healthcare, technology, creative arts practice, management and law – and much else.
Contact our knowledge exchange team to find out more about our CPD courses, or explore the research interests of our academic staff

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/business-partnerships/succeed-with-middlesex:
We engage with your organisation's problems directly, to find innovative and effective solutions.
We’ll offer solutions, whether through consultancy, contract research, training, CPD, degree apprenticeships or any other means, that are fit for purpose.
You can expect Middlesex to be a patient, attentive listener.
We’ll point you towards funding to help you put knowledge into action.
We’ll promise no more than we know we can deliver: we will never claim expertise we don’t possess, and will point you towards others that do, if necessary.
Middlesex will be a partner in developing your long-term plans, whether that means growing the reach of your company, having your charity serve more people, or having your public sector organisation lead public provision in new ways.
Think of us as a creative friend, able to suggest new approaches that will work or prompt fresh thinking about how your organisation can bend to the winds of change.
Middlesex can work with you in a variety of practical ways.
There are a host of ways in which you can work with Middlesex
Middlesex University has extraordinary applied research which is sometimes developed through spin-out.
The University welcomed the conclusions of the Tracey review, and is seeking to adopt the recommendations.
Middlesex University is committed to adopting sector best practice in commercialisation by spin-out.
The University has, or plans to build in concert with others,
Middlesex University’s main contact for spinout review best practice adoption is Dr Mark Gray, Director of Knowledge Exchange ( m.gray@mdx.ac.uk ).
Contact our research and knowledge exchange teams to discuss how we can work with you

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/business-partnerships/working-with-our-students:
We offer flexible and practical ways for organisations of all sizes, locally and globally, to engage with our diverse and talented student and graduate community.
Through a range of events and programmes, we provide your business with fresh perspectives and solutions to real-world challenges, in alignment with your growth needs.
Involving employers at every level of our learning, teaching, and careers support gives our students the best possible chance to succeed in their future aspirations, while also giving you direct access to passionate, driven, and diverse students and recent graduates.
Whether you're a start-up, SME, charity, large corporate, or public sector organisation, we can tailor opportunities to suit your needs.
Partner organisations can benefit from a range of services provided by our Careers and Futures team:
Collaborate with us on real-world student projects designed to offer fresh perspectives and tangible solutions to your current business challenges while empowering future professionals through hands-on implementation or consultancy experiences.
Connect with skilled, career-ready students to meet your recruitment needs, whether for placements, internships, graduate jobs or wider work experience.
Advertise your opportunities to diverse candidates from over 140 nationalities.
From our flagship Gradstock and CareerConnect festivals to industry panels and networking events, we offer a menu of opportunities to gain brand visibility and engage with our students and graduates at our vibrant London campus or online.
Our free online careers platform, Handshake, offers a fantastic opportunity for employer partners to engage directly with our university careers service, post jobs and events at no cost, and enhance your employer profile for increased visibility within the network.
We would love for you to join us on Handshake .
Hosting a placement or internship offers you the opportunity to engage with student talent before they graduate.
Our courses incorporate work-related activities, and many students take on year-long placements where they gain hands-on experience in roles directly aligned with their academic studies.
In addition, our students are enthusiastic about short-term work experiences and internships.
These can take place over the summer, part-time during term time, or even after graduation.
We recognise the value of collaborative, experiential learning and actively embed project-based initiatives into the curriculum to help students develop essential employability skills, while offering our clients the opportunity to solve real business challenges through free consultancy, practical implementation, and the fresh perspectives.
This approach enables students to work on real-world projects set by external clients, gaining hands-on experience and delivering innovative, impactful solutions.
Businesses and organisations can access fresh thinking and creative problem-solving at no cost.
Projects can range from prototypes and MVPs to marketing strategies or viable tech solutions—ideal for organisations lacking in-house capacity or expertise.
For more complex or longer-term needs, we can also support collaborative partnerships through government-funded schemes, connecting you with academic expertise to drive innovation and long-term value.
In close partnership with the London Borough of Barnet, we support a range of local businesses, start-ups and charities.
We’re committed to strengthening our local community by connecting your business, start-up or charity with talented student consultants, dedicated volunteers, skilled interns, and recent graduates.
Our innovative Barnet Business Growth programme offered 50 local businesses access to a fully-funded student intern, alongside a dedicated Continuous Personal Development (CPD) programme to support a community of businesses in the Borough of Barnet.
We’re proud to support the entrepreneurial ambitions of our students through our Start-Up Support Programme , a dynamic initiative designed to nurture innovative ideas and launch viable ventures.
This programme is open to students, alumni, and local residents, and is delivered in partnership with Barnet Council.
We invite external organisations to get involved and help shape the future of entrepreneurship by:
Our partnership with Middlesex University on project-based learning effectively bridges academic theory with real-world application.
By engaging students in live business challenges, we help them develop essential skills such as problem-solving, critical thinking, collaboration, creativity, and reflection.
As a significant national employer, this collaboration also enables us to identify strong candidates for our One-Year Placement and Graduate Management Training Programme.
We’re proud to work with a university that embeds project-based learning into its curriculum, preparing students to be workplace-ready from day one.
Together, we’re building a talent pipeline.
Creating meaningful student opportunities while delivering real value to business.
A true win-win for education and industry.
We initially collaborated with Middlesex University on a consultancy project involving two groups of students who provided valuable insights across digital marketing: email marketing, social media, SEO, and paid advertising.
Their recommendations were clearly presented with step-by-step implementation plans.
We were so impressed that we ended up hiring one of the students to help optimise our email flows and campaigns.
This year, we also welcomed two interns; one focused on social media strategy, which was a huge support for me as a founder juggling many roles, and the other on SEO improvements.
Her advanced knowledge in the field truly impressed me, and I learned a lot from working with her.
I highly encourage other brands to get involved in projects like this.
It's incredibly valuable to gain a fresh perspective from the next generation of talent, especially when they’re so well-prepared and motivated.
The event was overall well organised and attended (by both students and employers alike) and there was a genuine positive buzz in the air from start to finish, with no expected (based on past events I have attended) lull in the afternoon.
The event offered us a great opportunity to make students aware of a number of Civil Service career opportunities, including work experience, apprenticeships and T-Levels, Fast Stream, as well as how to secure direct entry roles (including part-time operational opportunities which are usually hard for the Civil Service to fill).
Thanks again for including us in your successful event.
Our own experience of learning at Middlesex has made both Tanya and myself, as female founders of Kit & Caboodle (Creative Events Agency of the Year 2024), proud to support other MDX graduates, especially but not exclusively women, in gaining real-world experience at our London offices.
We’ve been fortunate to welcome several Middlesex students through internships and project collaborations, and we’re thrilled that two of them, Mercy Benn-Itua (BSc Information Technology & Business Intelligence, 2024) and Aishwarya Mane (MSc Marketing Management, 2023), have since progressed into permanent roles with us as Project Manager and Marketing Executive, respectively.
Interested in working with our students?
Get in touch with the MDXworks team

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/business-partnerships/degree-apprenticeships-business:
Give your employees the opportunity to gain a bachelor's or master's degree as they receive on-the-job training with a degree apprenticeship programme.
When you recruit a degree apprentice, you'll fill high level skills gaps and develop your staff through a work-based learning programme that's designed in a partnership between us and you, for your organisation.
We're already working in partnership with professional bodies, public sector organisations and some of the most recognisable names in industry.
Set up an apprenticeship
Information for apprentices

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/business-partnerships/supporting-our-region:
North London has been our home for nearly 150 years.
We’re part of the West London Alliance sub region stretching from Barnet to Hillingdon, responsible for 4% of the country’s economic productivity.
We also sit at the base of the Innovation Corridor, the largest high technology corridor in the UK stretching from Camden to Peterborough.
Our traditional boroughs and home to Middlesex for most of our history are Barnet, Enfield, Haringey and Waltham Forest.
Our predecessor institutions developed the thermionic valves that made possible the creation of Colossus, the world’s first electronic computer that cracked the Enigma code.
They were among the first, in 1948, to train nurses at the Royal Free Hospital for the new National Health Service and expand healthcare across north London.
We’ve supported businesses large and small, worked with community groups and local authorities, encouraged schools and young people to engage with higher education throughout that century and a half.
Since 1992 we’ve been North London’s principal local university, serving people from Brent and Harrow through to Tottenham with education, research and knowledge exchange.
We work through partnership wherever possible – for example, with Barnet Borough and Saracens in developing new activities in sport at Barnet Copthall, and working with local NHS Trusts to improve healthcare delivery through training and development of health professionals across North London.
Our approach is to put our knowledge and knowhow at the service of everyone in the places where we work and operate.
We actively look for ways to partner for a better north London – whether that’s through our apprenticeships team liaising with local businesses to improve the skills of their employees, or through our shared My Care Academy to shape a knowledge building community in mental health community care, or through practice and research collaborations with dance companies and theatre groups across the region.
We build new activities in our home region every year and invite new collaborations every day.
At sub-regional level our participation in economic development agendas works through direct involvement.
For example, our Chief Commercial Officer has sat on the West London Skills and Employment Board and our Director of Knowledge Transfer sat on the board of the Innovation Corridor.
We've used these opportunities to develop work connected with our overall knowledge exchange strategy and to review our effectiveness.
Enfield and Haringey Mental Health NHS Trust in healthcare, have included knowledge exchange work intended to lead to regional regeneration and growth through funded activity.
Each year Middlesex invites more than 24,000 members of the public to events as diverse as public lectures, performances, exhibitions and public celebrations.
We support schools and young people across the region, with exciting programmes of STEM and arts outreach, and we deliver support to local SMEs and microbusinesses in the region.
We also help shape the region’s growth strategies.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/business-partnerships/academic-partnerships:
At Middlesex University, we're proud to partner with leading educational institutions from the UK and around the world.
Middlesex is a truly global university that knows no geographic or academic borders .
We have been working with leading educational institutions across the globe to deliver outstanding teaching and research for decades.
Contact our academic partnership team
Become an international education consultant
Our partnership model has been in place for over 30 years, with 160 partners and counting
We ranked 6 among young universities in the UK (THE Young University Ranking 2024)
We have 14 regional support offices around the world, and rank 5 among young UK universities for international outlook (THE Young University Ranking 2024)
40,000 students are studying Middlesex University courses around the world
Our network of incredible international graduate talent numbers over 150,000
We'd be delighted to receive a partnership request from you.
If you would like to discuss a proposal with us for consideration, please email get in touch with us.
Once our senior management team has considered your enquiry or proposal, we will be in touch to discuss next steps.
View our partnerships in action by looking at our current partners.
This is a Middlesex University programme and qualification, designed, assessed and quality assured by Middlesex but delivered at and by a partner institution.
Students receive a Middlesex award upon successful completion.
This is a programme developed, delivered and assessed by a partner institution, and quality assured by Middlesex University.
Our articulation agreements allow students to make a smooth transfer to undergraduate and postgraduate degree courses at Middlesex University.
By coordinating our curriculums and choice of modules, students hit the ground running when they arrive at Middlesex.
This is a Middlesex University course and qualification, jointly developed, delivered and assessed by Middlesex and a partner institution.
It is quality assured by Middlesex University.
We have a large number of articulation agreements that allow the transfer of credit from specific programme/s at another institution, to advanced standing and credit towards specific programmes at Middlesex.
Please see the list below of current partners for which this applies:
Your Aptech qualification can lead to a Middlesex University computing degree.
You can choose to study at our flagship campus in London, or at our global campuses in Dubai or Mauritius.
Choose your Aptech qualifications to see your progression options .
We have partnered with Pearson's Edexcel to offer a top up route to a range of undergraduate degrees, in subject areas including Art & Design, Biomedical Science, Business, Childhood Studies, Computing and Media.
Choose your Edexcel qualification to see your progression options .

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us:
At Middlesex University, we help our students achieve more and serve our community.
Our north London campus offers career-focused education combined with outstanding research, with students at the heart of everything we do.
We are named by students as 1 st in London and 2 nd in the UK for University of the Year​ (Whatuni Student Choice Awards 2025).
For nearly 150 years, we have supported our students to achieve their aspirations and prepare them for successful lives and careers in a changing world.
We are proud to be the University for north London with an international outlook and opportunities through our close connections to our Dubai and Mauritius locations and academic partners worldwide.
Our students grow further and discover potential that they never knew they had, as part of a north London community where they truly belong.
We are here to support our students as they transform their futures, and help our communities become more inspiring places to study, work and live.
The students, staff and alumni in our global community contribute to our shared success through their academic excellence and research breakthroughs.
Together our teaching, research and partnerships translate knowledge into action for a fairer, more sustainable and productive society.
We win awards for our career-focused teaching, impactful global research and inclusive student experience.
Our structure brings together experts across disciplines for education and research.
Our strength comes from our collaborative and creative people and our inclusive culture.
Meet our experienced University Executive Team and learn about their responsibilities.
Our network connects over 285,000 Middlesex alumni around the world.
Discover more about us

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/news:
Whether you're a student, staff member, alumni, or simply curious about our university, this is your go-to source for staying informed and connected.
Join us on campus to discover more about our range of courses, and get a feel for life at Middlesex for yourself.
We’re a global community of over 1,800 colleagues, 38,000 students, 285,000 alumni and 1,000 industry partners.
Middlesex University is committed to impactful research across various disciplines

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/events:
We offer a range of virtual on-demand, subject, and support events, all offering you different views and information about the university.
Reserve your spot at our Clearing event to help you make your final decision.
Join us on campus to explore your study options and our exceptional facilities.
Book your place at our October open day to start your journey with Middlesex.
Join us on campus to take part in workshops with our arts and creative industries academic.
Book your place at our November open day to start your journey with Middlesex.
This is your chance to explore our London campus and facilities.
We run tours every week but hurry as place is limited on a first come first serve basis.
Take a look around our campus and facilities with a virtual tour.
Find out more about postgraduate courses and studying at Middlesex by watching pre-recorded subject talks, hosted by academics from previous open evenings.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-story:
For 147 years, Middlesex University has transformed the future for people and places through educational and research excellence and meaningful connections with our local and global communities.
We have served the educational needs of north London since we were founded as a women's teacher training college in Tottenham in 1878.
Now we are proud to be a global university, delivering outstanding education informed by our research and knowledge exchange on three continents.
Our teaching and learning support students to gain real-world skills and build confidence for career success, lifelong learning and leadership.
Our researchers are empowered to put their knowledge into action to shape a world that’s fairer, healthier and more sustainable.
We work with our partners to make London Borough of Barnet into an inspiring and welcoming place to learn, work and live.
Our strategic plan will enable us to transform the lives of our students and the future of our regions.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people:
We’re a global community of more than 1,750 staff, 36,000 students, 285,000 alumni and over 1000 industry partners.
Our academic community includes active practitioners and committed researchers and teachers who lead their fields.
Our professional services staff make our transformative work happen and provide exceptional support to our students.
With oversight from our Board of Governors, our University Executive Team works with our Vice-Chancellor, who is responsible for leading the University and ensuring we deliver our strategy.
Our Chancellor acts as a ceremonial figurehead.
Discover who we are and how we work together.
Senior Lecturer
"Head of Department, Accounting, Finance and Economics"
SL Transdisciplinary Practice
Lecturer in Fashion Communication
Senior Lecturer in Law
Senior Lecturer in Business and Management

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-faculties:
In London we have four academic faculties that are structured so teaching and learning are closely linked with industry and the professions
Our Faculty of Arts and Creative Industries leads the sector in student employability initiatives, like our partnership with screen industry skills body Screenskills.
Our Faculty of Business and Law’s research in ‘Business and Management’ is number 1 in the UK for world leading societal impact (REF 2021).
Our Faculty of Health, Social Care and Education was first in the UK to use augmented reality equipment for training nurses and midwives.
Our Faculty of Science and Technology is home to London Sports Institute who have prestigious research links, like the Lawn Tennis Association and PGA European Tour.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/open-days:
Come to one of our 2025 open days to see one of the few London universities based around a campus and tour our world-class facilities.
As one of the few London universities with a true campus, our open days are the perfect chance to discover everything we offer.
From industry-standard resources to sports facilities, student accommodation and to meet your future lecturers.
Our open days are designed to give you a flavour of what it’s like to live and study at Middlesex.
You'll discover more about your course and meet staff and students too.
We welcome prospective students, parents, and supporters to visit our outstanding North London campus in autumn, spring, or summer.
You can also join our virtual events to learn more, wherever you are.
A chance to tour our vibrant north London campus and see the specialist facilities you’ll use, discover more about your course, meet teaching staff and chat to current students.
Visit one of London’s best universities for furthering your career and discover our flexible courses designed to drive your success.
See all our events including our campus tours every other Wednesday and our Virtual Tour.
Take a guided campus tour with a student ambassador, see the facilities and ask questions about studying at Middlesex
Expect tours of facilities and accommodation, subject talks and opportunities to find out more about funding options , careers support and wellbeing services and ask questions.
At Middlesex, you can do all this and hang out in some of our spaces to get a feel for the campus.
Besides a sense of curiosity and excitement?
We recommend bringing something to make notes on and wearing shoes you can walk in so you can easily stroll around our campus.
Absolutely anything you like!
We don’t like to brag, but we reckon we’ve got everything covered, from the number of teaching hours on your course to how to find a part time job, when to apply for accommodation and getting support if you have a neurodiverse condition.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/subjects/order-a-prospectus:
Take your first step to the future you want with our guide to Middlesex.
Find out why we’re a Top 6 University in the UK (Times Higher Education Young University Rankings 2024) with our undergraduate guide.
Discover how our courses help you to achieve your goals, hear from our inspiring alumni and find out how we can support you.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/terms-and-conditions:
Access to the site is permitted on a temporary basis and the University reserves the right to withdraw or amend the services provided on the site without notice.
The University will not be liable if for any reason the site is unavailable at any time or for any period.
The University may restrict access to users to some parts of the site or to the entire site for technical, administrative or legal reasons.
If you choose, or you are provided with, a user identification code, password or any other piece of information as part of the University's security procedures, you must treat such information as confidential and you must not disclose it to any third party.
The University has the right to disable any identification code or password whether chosen by you or allocated by the University at any time if in the University's opinion you have failed to comply with any of the provisions of these terms of use.
You are responsible for making all arrangements necessary for you to have access to the site.
You are also responsible for ensuring that all persons who access the site through your internet connection are aware of these terms and that they comply with them.
You may use the site only for lawful purposes.
You must not use the site:
The University is the owner or the licensee of all intellectual property rights in the site and in the material published on it.
Those works are protected by copyright laws and treaties around the world.
All such rights are reserved.
Material prepared for the primary purpose of providing information about Middlesex University, its teaching and research activities, its subsidiary companies and organisations with which it is associated or affiliated has been placed on the site by the University ('University Material').
Subject to statutory allowances, extracts of material from the site may be accessed, downloaded and printed for your personal and non-commercial use and you may draw the attention of others within your organisation to material posted on the site.
The University's status and that of any identified contributors as the authors of material on the site must always be acknowledged.
You may not modify the paper or digital copies of any material printed off or downloaded in any way and you must not use any illustrations, photographs, video or audio sequences or any graphics separately from any accompanying text.
You must not use any part of the material on the site for direct or indirect commercial purposes or advantage without obtaining a licence to do so from the University or its licensors.
By seeking a licence from the University to reproduce University Material for commercial or other uses beyond that permitted above, the University can ensure that individuals and organisations have access to the most up-to-date material.
If you print, copy or download any part of the site in breach of these terms of use, your right to use the site will cease immediately and you must at the option of the University return or destroy any copies of the material you have made.
Nothing contained in the site shall be taken, construed or considered as a grant of licence or right to use the trademarks of Middlesex University or that of any third party displayed on the site without the prior written permission of the respective owner/s.
In submitting a contribution to the site:
1.
You grant to the University a non-exclusive, world-wide, royalty-free licence to copy, reproduce, broadcast, transmit, display and perform by all means all or part of your contribution on the site for the entire period of copyright in your contribution and all renewals, extensions or revivals thereof; and
2.
You warrant that:
Your contribution is your own original work or you have a licence from the author/s or copyright owner/s of the work granting the University use of the work on the terms of the foregoing licence granted by you; and
You will comply with the Content Standards (below); and
Your contribution does not infringe the copyright or other intellectual property rights of any person or organisation, which includes your having obtained sufficient rights (by written permission/licence or consents as appropriate) for the University to exercise the foregoing licence granted by you -
from rights holders of third party copyright materials that you may have included in your contribution in whole or in part, e.g.
others' literary works, photographs or other artistic works, dramatic works, musical works, sound recordings, films or broadcasts, and/or that others' materials are used in your contribution under statutory (legislative) exemption such as fair dealing for the purposes of criticism or review, and
from all identifiable persons in any images or video/film and/or sound recordings that you may have included in your contribution (including parental/legal guardian consent for those under 16 and for those who are vulnerable adults).
These content standards apply to any and all material which you contribute to the site ('contributions') and to any interactive services or features associated with it, such as blogs, chatrooms, bulletin boards and wikis.
Contributions must:
Contributions must not:
The University reserves the right to review, edit or remove without warning any contribution that in its sole discretion breaches these Content Standards and to take further action, including legal action, as the University reasonably feels necessary or is required by law.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, and to the fullest extent permitted by law, the University accepts no responsibility or liability to any third party for the content or accuracy of any material posted by any user of the site.
University Material is provided on an 'AS IS' and 'AS AVAILABLE' basis.
To the extent permitted by law, the University excludes any representations or any warranties (whether express or implied by law), including the implied warranties of satisfactory quality, fitness of a particular purpose, non-infringement, compatibility, security and accuracy.
Unless material is part of University Material, or unless stated otherwise, the site may contain advice, opinions, statements or other information by various authors or organisations.
Reliance upon any such advice, opinion, statement or other information is at your risk and to the extent permitted by law the University disclaims all liability and responsibility arising from any reliance placed on such information by any user of the site or by anyone who may be informed of such information.
Where the site contains links to other websites and resources provided by third parties, those links are provided for information only.
The University has no control over the contents of those sites or resources and accepts no responsibility for them or for any loss or damage that may arise from your use of them.
In no event shall the University be liable to any party for any of the following losses or damages (whether such losses be foreseen, foreseeable, known or otherwise): loss of data, loss of revenue or anticipated profits, loss of business, loss of opportunity, loss of goodwill or injury to reputation, loss suffered by third parties, any direct, indirect, special, incidental, or consequential loss or damages arising out of use of the site or reliance on any material or services provided in the site or accessed through it, whether or not amended by third parties and regardless of form of action.
Nothing in these terms of use is intended to exclude the University's liability for death or personal injury caused by the University's proven negligence or fraudulent misrepresentation.
These terms of use and all questions of construction, interpretation, validity and performance under these terms including non-contractual disputes or claims shall be governed by English law and subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the English courts.
Nothing in these terms of use is intended to nor shall it confer any benefit on a third party whether under the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999 or otherwise.
The University's failure or delay to exercise or enforce any right in these terms of use does not waive the University's right to enforce that right.
If any of these terms of use should be determined to be illegal, invalid or otherwise unenforceable by reason of the laws of any country in which these terms of use are intended to be effective, then to the extent and within that jurisdiction in which that term of use is illegal, invalid or unenforceable, it shall be severed and deleted from these terms of use and the remaining terms of use shall survive and remain in full force and effect and continue to be binding and enforceable.
Middlesex University The Burroughs London NW4 4BT United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/clearing/courses:
We’re here to help you find the perfect course that suits your goals.
With limited places available on some of our courses through Clearing, this is your chance to secure your spot for the upcoming academic year.
Search for your course and apply through UCAS to take the next step in your education.
With hands-on learning, start-up modules, and work placements, this course will boost your entrepreneurial skills to help you build a successful career.
Join our highly ranked, expert-led Computer Science BSc and get ready for your future career in technology.
Begin your legal career with our top-ranked LLB Law degree that combines expert law tuition, hands-on experience, and industry partnerships.
Join our course and gain the skills, experience and accreditation to launch your career in psychology and beyond.
Gain a practical economics education led by expert faculty, strong industry connections and excellent employability prospects.
Study in one of the country's most advanced simulation wards, featuring unique virtual and augmented reality technology.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/clearing/what-is-clearing:
Have questions about Clearing 2025?
Here is your complete guide on applying to university through Clearing.
University Clearing is a process run by UCAS.
It helps you find and apply for undergraduate university courses which still have spaces available.
There are many reasons you may choose to apply through Clearing.
It might be that you didn't receive any offers, or you didn't get the grades.
You may be applying late, or you may simply have changed your mind about what to study.
Whatever the reason, applying through Clearing can help you start your higher education journey, and get you onto a course you want to study.
You are eligible for Clearing if are a home or international student, and:
You can apply through Clearing if you're an international student.
The Clearing process works in the same way as for UK students, but there are a few differences:
There are several steps to Clearing:
Clearing opens
International Baccalaureate (IB) exam results day
A Level (and BTEC) results day
GCSE results day
Final day for 2025 UCAS undergraduate applications
Clearing closes
Middlesex offers a wide range of undergraduate courses through Clearing every year.
Find your course or join an open day , and soon you could be joining our inclusive community, accessing state-of-the-art facilities, and embarking on a path to a successful career.
Many of our excellent courses will be popular during Clearing, but a few are likely to close soon after results day (14 August).
Act quickly to secure your spot for the following:
Browse courses available in Clearing .
There are many myths and misconceptions around Clearing, which often cause confusion and worry.
Here, we set the facts straight.
False.
There's a range of reasons students choose to apply through Clearing.
They may have changed their mind about their course or university, or perhaps they applied late.
Of course, if you don't get the grades or have not received any offers, you can also apply through Clearing.
Clearing is a good opportunity to change your mind, research other courses and apply for something that better suits you.
View our courses to explore what is on offer.
Whilst Clearing does move quickly, if you prepare in advance you'll have time to make the right decision for you and your future.
At Middlesex, we offer support and guidance every step of the way.
False .
At Middlesex, we offer a wide variety of student accommodation for you to choose from.
Our Clearing students have excellent outcomes.
Take a look at our Clearing stories to see the paths our Clearing students have taken, and the successes they've achieved.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/open-days/open-day:
Join our open days to explore courses, meet staff and students, and discover what makes us London’s No.
1 University of the Year (Whatuni Student Choice Awards 2025).
Sunday 12 October or Saturday 29 November, 9.30am – 3pm
A Middlesex University undergraduate open day is your chance to explore one of London's largest university campuses with everything you need all in one place and learn about your course.
Take a guided tour of your north London campus and see the specialist facilities you’ll use.
Get advice on student finance and support.
Meet the academic staff ready to answer your questions and chat to current students who tell it like it is.
Conveniently located with easy commuting options, our North London location provides a true campus experience without the hassle of navigating multiple sites across the city.
Book Now
Hear from our dedicated employability service that has filled over 22,000 student roles.
Tour our £200 million, state-of-the-art campus - voted 1st in London (WhatUni Student Choice Awards 2025).
We have places available through Clearing.
Call our Clearing hotline or apply using our online application form.
Our Hendon campus is easily accessible by tube, rail, and car.
Located just 10 minutes from the Northern Line and Thameslink rail line, and adjacent to the North Circular and A41, we offer on-site parking for a hassle-free visit.
location_on Middlesex University, The Burroughs, Hendon, London NW4 4BT

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/open-days/pg-open-events:
Voted London’s University of the Year 2025 (Whatuni Student Choice Awards).
Find out how a Master’s at Middlesex can help you take the next step in your career.
Meet academics, talk to current postgraduates, and explore funding and support.
Tuesday 9 September, 5:00pm - 7:30pm
Join us on-campus to explore your study options and our exceptional facilities.
You'll have the opportunity to ask questions on careers, finance, admissions, and more.
Book your place
Hi, I'm Mariah and I'm Eva and we're postgraduate students at Middlesex University.
If you've got big questions but postgraduate study then we're here to tell you why coming along to a post-grad open event is the best way to get personalised answers just for you wanted to know how postgraduate studies can  help you to achieve your career goals speak one to one to an academic about course content and how to tailor your studies to your future plans.
95% of our postgraduate students go to High skilled employment or further study after they graduate so our academics know what works and if you submit a Fast Track application at the event then they can even give you an offer for your course there and then.
Wondering if Middlesex is a good investment and value for money?
See where you'll be studying for yourself take a tour of our leafy safe and sustainable campus where we've recently invested 200 million pounds in facilities that put us ahead of other unis and even professional workplaces been out of education for a while and not sure about the step up to post-grad learning chat to our award-winning academic and personal support team to talk through the personal Network we can put in place to help you want to know how to fit your city around your schedule and family.
Speak to our current students about their typical day and week and how they make it work and find out about flexible study options maybe you're wondering if you'll fit in and find your place it's only natural right this is your chance to experience the vibe on campus and meet people from a welcoming community that include students from 122 nationalities.
Register for your place now and get one step loser to postgrad study and your future plan see you there see you there.
[Music]
Explore our range of pre-recorded subject talks, hosted by our expert academics, designed to help you understand the details of your specific course and get your questions ready.
Plus, drop by for a campus tour every other Wednesday from 1:00pm to 4:00pm  to experience our world-class facilities in person.
Located just 10 minutes from the Northern Line and Thameslink rail line, and adjacent to the North Circular and A41, we offer on-site parking for a hassle-free visit for all attendees.
Discover more

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/get-in-touch/meet-us/campus-tours:
Join us for a pre-booked general campus tour every other Wednesday from 1.00-4.00pm.
Additional tours will be running during Clearing on 12-13 and 19-21 August from 11.00am-4.00pm.
Take a guided campus tour with an ambassador and see the facilities you’ll have access to on your course.
We will be offering general tours every other Wednesday, so you have even more opportunities to explore our facilities.
Tours will depart every hour from 1.00-4.00pm.
You will have time after the tour to speak with staff from admissions.
Parking is limited on campus and in the surrounding area.
There is no parking on campus before 4.30pm on weekdays.
If you are taking public transport, we are well connected to the Northern Line via Hendon Central station and the Hendon Thameslink mainline station.
Make sure you arrive no more than 15 minutes before your tour start time.
You'll be registered on arrival by one of our student ambassadors.
All tour groups are limited to a maximum of ten people.
One of our ambassadors will guide you around the main buildings and facilities on campus.The entire tour will last about 30 minutes.
You'll have the opportunity to ask your tour ambassador any questions about student life and the Middlesex community.
If you have any questions, your tour ambassador can show you back to the Quad in the College Building where you'll be able to speak to our admissions team after your tour.
Our high-tech training centre at West Stand StoneX Stadium is a £24 million centre of excellence for simulation-based learning in healthcare and sports science, in partnership with Saracens.
It has the latest tech and facilities to help you link classroom theory with professional skills.
The next tours for Nursing/Midwifery and Sports Science will take place during our open day on 24 February 2024.
The tour includes a general visit around Hendon campus and a specialist tour at the West Stand.
Nursing student Tanisha gives you a sneak peek around our brand new nursing and midwifery facilities at the West Stand with all the latest tech to help you learn clinical skills.
Home to Saracens rugby club, Kyle Pittman will take you around all the amazing facilities you get access to at the stadium.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/research-degrees:
Our degrees offer you the opportunity to explore innovative ways to tackle major social, economic and cultural problems.
We are committed to the pursuit of excellence through learning, and our supervisors will support you to develop your existing knowledge and skills to make a difference in your professional field.
With our support, you can focus on your area of expertise and can be jointly supervised by our academics and a collaborating partner, if you are working in partnership with an external organisation.
We offer workshops available via our Virtual Learning Environments and electronic and physical access to our campus library.
Middlesex University offers a wide range of postgraduate research degrees, from the MPhil/PhD to the Doctor of Professional Studies (DProf) to shorter degrees such as Doctorates by Public Works and the MA/MSc by Research.
Each programme is suited to different needs and applicants’ backgrounds but is governed by the same rigorous quality standards.
Before applying for one of Postgraduate Research Study Degrees, read through our regulations for postgraduate research on our policies page.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/news/2025/7/students-give-middlesex-and-clearing-the-thumbs-up:
24 July 2025
It’s students’ opinions which really count when choosing a university
Now is an important time to hear from students about their university experiences.
With Results Day 2025 around the corner, many students will be thinking about finding a university place through Clearing.
Those already at university are giving Middlesex the thumbs up.
Middlesex was named University of the Year in London (second in the UK) and first for both Student Life and Student Support in the capital in this year’s Whatuni Student Choice Awards, the largest UK awards voted for exclusively by students.
In the Uni Compare Rankings, also based on student feedback, Middlesex was top in the UK for Course Quality and Employability.
In the latest National Student Survey, Middlesex came fifth in London for overall positivity among our students and listening to student voice.
Middlesex University staff are experts in supporting students during Clearing and throughout their higher education journey.
Its dedicated staff are on hand to help students navigate the Clearing process stress free and to find the best option.
While not getting the expected A level results might be disappointing at first, going through Clearing is a fantastic opportunity for students to re-evaluate and find the perfect course which can lead to their dream career.
Students have spoken of the simple Clearing process at Middlesex and of not looking back.
“I applied through Clearing because I did not get the expected results,” said Matthew Nderu, who is studying a BSc in Pharmaceutical Chemistry at the University.
“I remember results day, and it was slightly disappointing but I didn't lose hope."
"I immediately researched different universities around London and saw Middlesex as one of my top options from its website and course content.
On the first day on campus, I instantly knew I had made the right decision.”
Middlesex student Matthew Nderu
Using the chatbot on the Middlesex University website to send in his application made the Clearing process “easy”, added Matthew.
BA Product Design student Toney Smith also found the process straightforward.
“Applying to Middlesex through Clearing was very easy and quick.
I got a letter through the post a week or two later saying congratulations.
And then I was off.”
Praising his “supportive lecturers”, Toney added: “If I could go back and change anything, I don't think I would.”
Fashion Marketing student Angel Adegbuyi was upset about not getting her desired A’ Level results but was soon delighted at how things turned out after choosing Middlesex University through Clearing.
“I cried when I didn't get the grades to get into my first option,” she said.
“But I feel like everything happens for a reason, and I'm definitely glad I didn't get the grades now.”
Angel praised the number of available clubs and societies at Middlesex University, adding: “Every day at Middlesex is literally so much fun and an adventure, I love it so much.”
Find out more about Clearing and how to apply.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/news/2025/8/middlesex-university-sustainable-development-goals-report:
More than 750 research projects were recorded at Middlesex University between 2023/24 which are aligned with the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals
Middlesex University has more than tripled the number of research projects aligned with the United Nations’ key aims in tackling global issues such as poverty, equality and climate changes, according to a new report.
MDX’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) report reveals how the University is making sure that projects led by academics, students and professional staff are meeting the United Nations’ 17 SDGs, which call for action to end poverty and discrimination, and to ensure all people enjoy peace and prosperity.
The report has been nominated at the Green Gown Awards, which recognise sustainability excellence, in the Reporting with Influence category.
A total of 753 research projects were recorded at Middlesex University between 2023/24 with 863 connections to the UN’s SDGs which represents a massive rise on the previous period when approximately 231 were registered.
Key projects included one where academics Professor Jayne Osgood, Dr Victoria de Rijke and PhD student Matthew Maxwell worked with 120 four-year-olds from two primary schools in Barnet as well as their teachers, parents and grandparents and Barnet Council to create the ‘Minibeasts of Barnet’.
Children were supported to explore tiny species living alongside them in their community, including microbes, insects and harmless viruses.
Another fantastic project saw Barnet Council and Middlesex University launch the ‘BarNET ZERO Challenge’ competition which encouraged individuals and communities to come forward with innovative ideas and provide practical solutions for reducing carbon emissions.
More than 330 research projects have been led by the Faculty of Science and Technology including work on managing flood risk and ensuring sustainable cities, reducing the inequalities of healthcare, and the sustainable use of buildings.
Research by MDX academics Dr Homeira Shayesteh, Dr Ramona Trestian, Dr Can Başkent, Dr Alison Megeney and Syderita Vaka examined key factors influencing women’s decisions to pursue STEM degrees, the challenges they face during their education, and strategies to support their progression into professional careers.
BA Fashion lecturer Luke Anthony Rooney, a multidisciplinary artist, produced research which sourced materials through upcycling rather than relying on new fabrics.
Garments and textiles including shirts, dresses, napkins, handkerchiefs and doilies were transformed into original artworks exhibited in London
As well as research by academics, MDX is also determined that the SDGs are a key part of the curriculum and learning for students, encouraging learning through experience such as the annual law trip to Strasbourg organised by Dr Alice Donald.
In the foreword to the report, Professor Shân Wareing, the Vice Chancellor of Middlesex University, said: “Through SDG-focused curriculum integration, student-led projects, and initiatives like our SDG webinars, we provide students with the tools and knowledge to make informed decisions that positively impact the planet.
These efforts are essential in preparing our graduates to become leaders in sustainability and advocates for change.”
"This year’s SDG report reflects the dedication, expertise, and collaborative efforts that have gone into advancing our environmental priorities.
This report is more than just a publication—it’s a testament to the commitment of staff, students, and partners working together toward a more sustainable future.”
Mina Balijagic, from the Middlesex University Sustainability Team who authored the report
In 2024, Middlesex University held a free conference for teachers and educational leaders promoting sustainability and environmental education in schools.
The Hendon campus is also focused on sustainability as 181 tonnes of our overall waste is recycled and 970 kgs of food waste has been saved through our subscription to the Too Good To Go app.
Solar panels generated 76,823 kWh of green energy in 2023/24, while our Switch-Off Campaign at Christmas 2024 saved £41,151.
Tanks under MDX House collect rainwater to irrigate plants on the deck, rainwater harvested on Sheppard Library is filtered and used to flush the toilets, while water refill machines located around campus have refilled more than 500,000 water bottles since their installation.
Find out more about the Middlesex University Sustainable Development Goals report.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/news/2025/7/green-farm-africa-project:
Green Farm Africa will train and empower around 300 farmers in the African country in smart technology and global accreditation
A new project spearheaded by Middlesex University could help lift many small farmers in Zimbabwe out of poverty by training them in smart technology and environmental management practices and having their businesses globally accredited, which will open new UK and Europe trade links.
Middlesex University leads the Green Farm Africa project through the Centre for Enterprise, Environment and Development Research (CEEDR) and GreenFin research cluster, working with Royal Holloway University of London, Lincoln University and Reading University, providing academic expertise and international ecological and development experience.
Green Farm Africa’s main objective is to train and empower small farmers, around 300 initially in Zimbabwe, with smart technology such as satellite weather forecasting and drone crop and land use monitoring to improving their farming.
They will also be helped to deliver farming practices which meet Global Good Agricultural Practices (GAP) standards suitable for export to the UK and European markets.
Zimbabwean farmers involved can connect their fresh food produce such as sweet potatoes, mangos and melons to viable UK export markets by working with Destination Produce, a UK retail and wholesale buyers group, which will ensure high quality sustainable and ethically farmed fresh produce from Africa can meet British consumer demand.
The Green Farm Africa ‘Green Stamp’ accreditation can also achieve premium pricing.
This project aims to create a social and sustainable farming system of fresh food, known as a ‘green block chain’, which protects workers and consumers.
Academics from the Green Farm Africa research programme recently hosted delegates representing Zimbabwe, including Nomabea horticultural group, small farmer representatives and the UK Embassy of Zimbabwe.
Robyn Owen, Professor of Entrepreneurship and Sustainable Finance from CEEDR and GreenFin: who is leading the research, said: “Green Farm Africa Zimbabwe, which will initially support a pilot group of 300 small farmers, represents an important step towards raising the social and environmental standards of Zimbabwean small farming, whilst also addressing the UK’s food security in the face of current climate and economic crises.”
Mrs Alma Bhebe, the lead Zimbabwe delegate from Nomabea Horticulture, said: “I’m delighted to see our dreams coming true to improve our small farmers lives and export the wonderful fresh food products that Zimbabwe has to offer.”
This project continues to highlight Middlesex University’s UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) aspirations after it was ranked 8th globally for SDG 10 which relates to reducing inequalities in the Times Higher Education Impact Rating meaning it is a global leader in having practises, policies and research which help reduce social and economic gaps.
Green Farm Africa empowers smallholder farmers across Sub-Saharan Africa and spans 14 countries.
It is estimated that 60% of the Sub-Saharan farming market use small scale operations and research indicates the region could produce 2-3 times current cereal crop yields and significantly expand horticultural production.
As part of Green Farm Africa project, EnrichGeo Technologies will deliver the technology platform offering farm management systems, satellite mapping, environmental monitoring and blockchain-based logistics solutions.
“We are passionate about supporting African small farmers and putting them front and centre of our work.
We support all types of small farmer including women farmers and aim to raise their living standards through the adoption of smart technologies which can offer climate resilience and raise yields.”
Tonye Khama, CEO of EnrichGeo Technology
Destination Produce will provide UK market access, connecting certified farmers directly to retailers and premium buyers whilst offering import standards guidance.
Local partnerships include farmer collectives such as SheFarmers, regional farming associations across Nigeria and Zimbabwe, and community-based organisations supporting smallholder farmers.
Green Farm Africa builds on MDX GreenFin’s recent research on Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SME) nature positive finance for the UK Natural Environment Research Council (NERC) which focuses on financing and technology transfer to emerging small farmer markets in Sub Sahara Africa.
Find out more about the MDX GreenFin research .

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/news/2025/7/digital-twin-workshop-and-mou:
Digital Twin Stroke Care Network project will help hospitals diagnose patients more quickly and boost stroke awareness and education in South East Asia
Middlesex’s London Digital Twin Research Centre (LDTRC) – an inter-department collaboration, focused on technology that offers a digital realisation of the physical world – has held a hybrid International Workshop on Stroke Care for clinicians, researchers and institutional leaders from the UK and South-East Asia.
A highlight of the event, the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding between Middlesex, the University of Oxford and two Vietnamese institutions, paves the way for international cooperation in research, data sharing, and capacity building in stroke and epilepsy care.
The event in June, with attendees from Vietnam, Indonesia and Taiwan, was held under the auspices of the Digital Twin for Stroke Care Network, which is funded by the British Council’s International Science Partnerships Fund (ISPF), the Academy of Medical Sciences, the British Academy and the Royal Academy of Engineering.
The Network is committed to improving stroke prevention, service delivery, and rehabilitation using AI and Digital Twin.
The Memorandum was signed by Professor Huan Nguyen for Middlesex, Professor Arjune Sen , Professor of Global Epilepsy at the University of Oxford, and representatives of Bach Mai Hospital (Vietnam’s largest) and Vietnamese university VNU-UMP , which specialises in medicine and pharmacy.
Witnessing the signing were Vietnam’s Ambassador to the UK His Excellency Do Minh Hung, alongside Middlesex's Professor Janet Jones, Pro Vice-Chancellor for Global Research and Knowledge Exchange, and Professor Balbir Barn, Dean of the Faculty of Science and Technology.
Middlesex Professor of Digital Communications Engineering and Director of the London Digital Twin Research Centre Huan Nguyen said the MOU signing was “a big occasion and significant in many ways.
"We’re joining a world-class institution in Oxford University in committing to working in a strategic direction between UK and Vietnam, and the memorandum symbolises what we all want from both countries.
Vietnam is an important country with a lot of medical data to work with.
“It’s so important to support doctors with technologies.
Bach Mai Hospital treats more than 1200 stroke patients a month.
Sometimes they are overwhelmed, and can’t give all patients an MRI or CT scan – they need technology to help decide who needs it most."
"We’re contributing to a national stroke programme in Vietnam.
It’s vital to diagnose patients and give them the right treatment early – within four and a half to six hours - and technology can support this.
“Our platform also helps boost community awareness.
Family members need to understand what’s going on with most likely older people.
They need to know to bring them early enough to hospital for treatment."
The workshop featured two panel discussions: on Stroke Burden and AI Opportunities in Global Health, and on Data-Driven Stroke Innovation.
It was preceded by a strategic site visit to Oxford for LDTRC and South East Asian partners, to tour mechanical thrombectomy facilities for stroke care at Oxford University Hospitals and Oxford Robotics Institute .
At a seminar during the visit, the delegation presented ongoing work from the Digital Twin Stroke Care Network, including on the development of AI-based stroke care models, and the Oxford University Hospitals team shared their experiences in stroke treatment services and planning, and integration of AI technologies such as Brainomix 360 Stroke (the UK’s largest stroke AI network, serving more than 9 million patients).
Recently, LDTRC had a significant presence at both the 2025 IEEE International Symposium on Broadband Multimedia Systems and Broadcasting in Dublin, and an Institution of Engineering & Technology (IET) Space & Communications Week event in London.
In Dublin, Middlesex Associate Professor in Computer Science Dr Ramona Trestian presented and Professor Huan Nguyen delivered the keynote, on how Digital Twin models are poised to transform 6G network design (the planned successor to 5G, due to be developed and released by the early 2030s).
Professor Nguyen addressed uses of Digital Twins in smart factories, precision agriculture and infrastructure monitoring, and the role of AI in scaling up Digital Twin approaches and delivering intelligent connectivity.
At the IET event in June, he gave an invited talk on Quantum-based Digital Twin for Open RAN ( a shift in the telecommunications industry to open up systems that connect devices to the core network), as part of the British Council’s ISPF project with Japanese partners.
"The London Digital Twin Research Centre have led the way on building meaningful relationships with world class partners and are delivering on our institution mission for applying science for social good."
Professor Balbir Barn, Dean of the Faculty of Science and Technology
Find out more about the London Digital Twin Research Centre and studying Network Management and Cloud Computing at Middlesex University.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate:
Clearing is open
This course is available through Clearing for a September 2025 start.
Give us a call and start your journey with Middlesex.
Your journey starts here.
Sign up for support to unlock your full potential at a top 4 UK university (Uni Compare, 2025), where award-winning support and career-focused courses empower you to grow further every step of the way.
Middlesex is all about helping you grow further - personally, academically, and professionally.
Our students have gained career-ready skills, working on live projects with top brands like Google, Disney, and NHS Trusts, and supported every step of the way.
Sign up to get all the guidance you need to complete your UCAS application and explore your funding options—delivered straight to your inbox.
We’ll make your life easier with essential application information, plus regular updates on your chosen course, upcoming events, and financial and academic support options.
Sign up for support
Can you picture your future?
I can picture my future and it looks like me helping teenagers experiencing pregnancy for the first time.
Picturing my future I would like to be a barrister.
I hope to become an RF intelligence officer
I see myself as a business woman I think I'm pretty awesome at it.
You don't see a lot of people like me, Muslim young ladies going into technology being a part of that change in the world, makes me really proud.
Everyone's kind of on the same wavelength about making something creative and expressing themselves.
I get inspired from free spaces here.
You just go for a little walk in your area then boom you have a new idea for something.
Between my lectures and Labs I tend to go on the Northern line to Camden and just try to enjoy what the City has to offer.
Have some really amazing street food and back to lecture.
My experience at Middlesex it's given me the confidence the skills and the opportunities to really be that role model that is just normally never seen the moment I first walked into campus my future started it's ultimately where my future is this is no going back.
We are here to get you career-ready with our specialist, practical courses, taught in £200 world-class facilities
With 1,000+ industry partners, you’ll gain the experience, skills, and connections employers want
Boost your future with real-world work experience, industry-recognised qualifications, and expert career guidance
Your future starts at Middlesex.
Search our courses and apply to join a university that puts you at the heart of everything, helping you grow further than you ever imagined.
Yes!
Join one of our open days or book a campus tour to experience Middlesex in person.
Can’t make it?
You can take a virtual tour to explore our facilities.
What’s the application deadline for September 2025?
For full details, visit our how to apply page.
At Middlesex, we take a personalised and fair approach to admissions.
We believe in encouraging applicants to strive for excellence and consider all the information provided on your application.
If you don't meet the expected grades, we aim to be flexible in our decision-making.
We take into account more than just exam results, including any barriers you may have faced in your education or additional information from your school or college.
For most undergraduate courses, we require 96 to 128 UCAS points, which typically means:
There are also specific entry requirements for each course.
However, our flexible approach allows you to apply for courses you are passionate about.
For more detailed information, including all the considerations taken during the admissions process, you can get the full breakdown on our entry requirements page .
Undergraduate tuition fees for UK students are currently £9,250 per year, totalling £27,750 for a typical three-year degree.
To support students from all financial backgrounds, Middlesex offers a range of funding and loan options, ensuring finances don't stand in the way of your education.
We also provide scholarships, awards, and bursaries, which don’t need to be paid back.
For more details, check out these resources:
Don't hesitate to explore these options — they are designed to help make university more accessible!
For international students, fees can vary depending on the course.
To get the exact details, you can visit our I nternational Students fees page.
At Middlesex, we’re committed to giving you the best opportunity to join us, accepting applications right up to results day.
For September 2025 entry, here are the UCAS deadline:
For full details, you can check out the UCAS - Middlesex University for application dates and deadlines.
You can take almost all our undergraduate courses on a part-time basis.
Study at your own pace alongside work and other commitments and get the skills and knowledge you need to progress in your career.
You can also move easily between full and part-time study during your course.
Search our courses to find the pathway that suits you.
We also offer a selection of undergraduate courses that begin in January: BA Business Management, BA Business Management (top-up), BSc Computer Science and BSc Information Technology and Business Information Systems (Top-up).
These courses are ideal if you need more flexibility or missed the traditional September intake.
Visit our January start courses page to explore the available courses.
The best way to find out more about Middlesex is to visit us and experience our exceptional campus firsthand.
Visitors often share how our facilities exceed expectations, and it’s a great opportunity to get a feel for the commute.
You can book a place at one of our open days or arrange a campus tour by visiting our Events page.
Virtual tours are also available if you can’t make it in person.
Learn more about our open days

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate:
Postgraduate open event
See why students choose Middlesex University, meet your future lecturers, and experience campus life at our postgraduate open event.
Whatever you want to achieve, our postgrad courses give you the practical experience, specialist know-how and unlimited support you need.
Search courses
Discuss your study options with our academics and support staff and see our great campus in north London.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/subjects/professional-practice-and-work-based-learning:
Don’t miss out on the latest events, guides, and updates about postgraduate life at Middlesex.
Fill out the form below and join a community that will support in shaping your future.
"Studying at Middlesex University, I was able to explore and research an area of my work which simultaneously would enhance my working life and provide academic credit."
Liz Barry, MSc Work Based Learning Studies student

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/ways-to-study:
There isn't just one way to study with us.
We offer different paths.
So you can find something that is right for your situation, including your academic knowledge, professional skills and personal circumstances.
If you feel you’re not quite ready for degree-level study, or don’t have the right qualifications, our foundation year courses could be the answer.
You’ll study with us for an extra year before starting your degree to build your confidence and gain the skills you need for undergraduate study.
See foundation year courses
Part-time study is a great way to complete an undergraduate or postgraduate degree while still working or keeping other commitments.
You can study at your own pace and divide the cost up into smaller chunks.
More about part-time study
Our distance learning courses allow to study for a master's in your own time, at home or from wherever you choose.
They are delivered through online resources with plenty of opportunities for you to interact, question, share and participate with others on your course.
See distance learning courses
A four-year sandwich course combines an undergraduate degree with a year-long placement in a professional setting.
Make valuable professional contacts as well as using what you've learnt on your course, and you won’t pay any fees during your placement year.
More about sandwich courses
Get a head-start on your career.
As a degree apprenticeship student, you'll have the opportunity to gain work experience that’s relevant to your career while you study for a degree.
You’ll also be earning a full-time wage and your student fees will be paid by your employer and the government.
More about degree apprenticeships
Enhance your current career with a professional qualification.
Our work-based learning degrees are tailored to your needs as a professional, ensuring you develop the expertise you need to stay ahead of the field.
Professional practice and work-based learning
Take time out of work to update your skills and develop your career.
Our continuing professional development (CPD) courses include IT, education and health with programmes built around academic study that helps you in the real world.
See short courses and CPD

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/careers-at-middlesex:
We value and invest in every one of our more than 1500 members of staff from 74 nationalities and foster a culture that inspires creativity, collaboration and growth.
Our staff make a difference to our students and to society as a whole.
Whatever your role at Middlesex, you'll help take students on journeys that transform their lives.
Middlesex is a diverse, inclusive and international university that values its staff and students who come from across the globe, enriching its community and campus life.
We wish to nurture the diversity of our University by continuing to attract people from across the world.
When you work here, you'll become part of an inclusive environment with an excellent employee benefits packages.
Our staff can make the most of flexible hours, discounts on courses and support with childcare.
Equality, diversity and inclusion are vital principles at Middlesex University.
We value all our staff and students equally, and we firmly believe that the talents, skills, insights and experiences of our diverse community make us who we are.
The University has a number of Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Staff Networks that are proactive and successful in instigating and developing new ideas, raising awareness across different issues and experiences, and holding supportive and informative events.
They are also instrumental in influencing policy through the University Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee.
Read our statement on Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (PDF) .
Find out more about more about Equality, Diversity and Inclusion at Middlesex
At Middlesex we are proud of our diverse community of staff, students and partners.
Our aim is to encourage and support an environment within the University which helps staff and students fulfil their potential and thrive in the workplace and in their studies, irrespective of disability and ill health.
We encourage our students and staff to disclose any disabilities or long-term health conditions, to ensure they receive the support they need.
We are committed to creating a positive working environment where diversity is a strength – and where everyone is treated with dignity and respect and can be their best selves at work – and have become members of charters and groups to strengthen our efforts in this area.
We also offer a range of support, activities and opportunities for students studying at Middlesex and can help students who have a specific support or wellbeing need to identify the right service for them.
Find out more about how we support our people's health and wellbeing, and about our charters and memberships.
We have signed up to the Race at Work Charter, are a member of Advance HE's Race Equality Charter (REC) and have been awarded a REC Bronze Award, which demonstrate our commitment to improving the representation, progression and success of Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic staff and students within higher education.
We aspire to increasing diversity and inclusion at all levels in the University and a priority is to ensure that the University Executive are listening, learning and acting.
Our Reverse Mentoring Framework is part of this process.
Middlesex University is a member of the Barnet Multi Faith Forum , which is widely represented by the 12 faith groups within Barnet and works to promote the value of faith groups within our community and the contribution they make to a peaceful, caring society.
We are also a member of the Inter Faith Network (IFN) for the UK , which works to promote understanding, cooperation and good relations between organisations and persons of different faiths in the UK.
The University is committed to flexible and family-friendly business practices.
We are a member of Working Families , the UK’s work-life balance charity which leads the way in helping organisations and employees build enabling and flexible environments that enhance productivity, creativity and wellbeing so that work works for everyone.
We are also a member of Business Disability Forum and a Disability Confident organisation , and have gained the highest Disability Confident Leader (level 3) status.
We have been awarded a Bronze Award by the Athena Swan Charter, which recognises that the University has a solid foundation for eliminating gender bias and developing an inclusive culture that values all staff.
Middlesex received a Gold Award and secured a place in the Top 100 list for leading LGBTQ+ inclusive employers in the workplace in the Stonewall Workplace Equality Index 2023 .
We also ranked 58th out of 268 institutions in the overall ranking, and came 8th out of the 30 higher education institutions that took part this year.
This is a significant achievement for the University and our community, substantially building upon our previous Bronze status and climbing up 45 places from 2022.
Stonewall is Europe’s largest charity for LGBTQ+ rights.
The Top Employers list is compiled from submissions to the Workplace Equality Index, a powerful benchmarking tool used by employers to assess their achievements and progress on LGBT equality in the workplace.
We have been awarded the highest level, Excellence, of the Mayor of London’s Good Work Standard accreditation, which sets the benchmark for the best employment standards and recognises best practice across fair pay and conditions, workplace wellbeing, skills and progression, and diversity and recruitment.
This is an important recognition of our commitment to our people, and also reflects the many ways in which we are striving for the best possible working conditions for our employees.
Middlesex is rated excellent by the GLA’s Healthy Workplace Charter Scheme and is an active member of the Healthy Universities network.
Our work is to prevent work-related illness and injury and to assist staff to return to work after sickness absence.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/policies/website-accessibility:
This accessibility statement applies to the Middlesex University London website.
This website is run by Middlesex University London.
We want everyone who visits our website to feel welcome and for as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
On this website you should be able to:
We’ve also made the website text as simple as possible to understand, using plain English and clear language.
We know some parts of this website are not fully accessible:
If you need information on this website in a different format like accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording or braille, please:
We’ll consider your request and get back to you in 28 days.
We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
If you find any problems that aren’t listed on this page or think we’re not meeting the requirements of the accessibility regulations, please email our web team accessibility@mdx.ac.uk .
If you have contacted us about an accessibility problem, but you feel that this has not been dealt with satisfactorily, we want to know.
The first stage would be to raise your concern informally.
The aim of this stage is to achieve a quick and easy solution for you.
It would be appropriate to take the concern through the relevant contact listed above for reporting an accessibility problem.
If, after this, we have not dealt with your concern satisfactorily, you can take it through to a formal complaint.
Our policies page has more information on making a complaint.
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Website and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you are not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
Middlesex University London is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Website and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 AA standard, due to the non-compliances and exemptions listed below.
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons.
WCAG 1.1.1 Non-text Content
Some of our images may not have text alternatives.
We are reviewing this across the website, fixing issues, making this a required field in our web content management system and training content creators to write meaningful and useful alternative text for images.
We plan to fix this by the end of 2023 and when we publish new images we will make sure it meets accessibility standards.
WCAG 1.2.2.
Captions (Prerecorded) , 1.2.3.
Audio Description or Media Alternative (Prerecorded) , and 1.2.5.
Audio Description (Prerecorded)
Some of our video content may not be correctly captioned and subtitled.
We are reviewing all our video content to address this.
WCAG 1.4.1.
Use of Colour
Some of our links rely on colour to identify them.
We are reviewing how we can add other visual cues like bigger fonts, iconography, underlines etc.
WCAG 2.4.4.
Link Purpose (In Context) , 2.4.9.
Link Purpose (Link Only) , 4.1.2.
Name, Role, Value
Some of our pages have links without a text alternative.
We are reviewing this across our site and training our content creators to use meaningful, unique link text.
WCAG 1.4.3.
Contrast (minimum)
Some of the colours on our website may not have sufficient contrast and are not AA compliant.
This can make it harder to read our text.
We now have better supporting colours on top of the primary ones and are reviewing this across the site, making sure our contrast rate is AA compliant, all text is readable and updating our style sheets to prevent this happening again.
WCAG 4.1.2.
Some of our inline frames (iFrames) do not have a text alternative.
We are reviewing this across our website and manually fixing these issues.
We have identified some areas of our website which do not meet our accessibility standards, and we are working towards fixing these.
WCAG 2.4.7.
Focus Visible
Our ‘Ask a question’ chat widget has no visible keyboard tab focus for the close button.
This widget is built by a third-party software developer and we are discussing with them their timelines for addressing this issue.
Our site contains a number of PDFs and other documents created in previous years that do not meet accessibility standards.
The accessibility regulations do not require us to fix PDFs or other documents published before 23 September 2018 if they are not essential to providing our services.
Any new PDFs or Word documents we publish will meet accessibility standards.
We may sometimes have third party content or functionality on our website.
Where we are legally required to feature third party content, we cannot reasonably accept responsibility for ensuring it meets accessibility standards.
However, for all content we have control over or have otherwise chosen to include, including that which we have paid for, we are obliged to work towards ensuring this content is accessible as possible.
We are embedding accessibility into our procurement processes, meaning it is a necessary part of any contract for digital work.
We often use other applications to create official Middlesex University content.
For example:
We must make sure our own content is as accessible as possible (for example, by making sure any video we upload to YouTube has appropriate subtitles, captions and audio description).
However, we do not have influence over the accessibility of the platform itself (for example, the YouTube video player functionality).
We have requested accessibility statements from our suppliers which outline their product's accessibility, and their future plans to improve in this area.
We will list all received statements on our webpage for third party supplier accessibility statements .
Our University Accessibility Working Group has oversight of our ongoing accessibility improvements.
We have put together an accessibility checklist for our website editors to use before publishing pages on our new website.
We are working with staff and students with a range of disabilities, including users of assistive technology, to provide feedback and help us test our new website, making sure we fix issues with the new website.
We use SiteImprove which is an automated tool which scans our website for accessibility issues include: Accessibility best practices, WAI-ARIA authoring practices, WCAG A and AA conformance.
We also conduct frequent manual testing to pick up errors that an automated scan cannot identify.
To do this we use a range of tools including: Lighthouse, Wave.com and HeadingsMap (chrome extension).
This statement was created on 23 January 2020, and updated on 26 February 2025.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/policies/charity-information:
Middlesex University is an exempt charity.
Key documents relating to our status are linked to below.
Legal name and correspondence address:
Middlesex University The Burroughs London NW4 4BT
List of Board members
Register of interests
Accounts
Public Benefit statement

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/policies/freedom-of-information:
In implementing the Freedom of Information Act 2000, Middlesex University promotes an understanding of the work undertaken within the University to foster a spirit of trust with the public and other organisations.
We achieve this by promoting transparency in the way we make our decisions and by providing clear information about our policies and processes through our publication scheme.
We deal with individual requests for information courteously and promptly and provide advice and assistance if necessary.
A requirement of the Act is to specify "classes" of information that the University will publish within its Publication Scheme.
The Information Commissioner issued a 'Model Publication Scheme' and from 1st January 2009 Middlesex University adopted the 'Model Scheme'.
The Model Scheme contains 7 classes of information and these are as follows:
By adopting the Information Commissioner's 'Model Scheme' Middlesex University is committed to the following:
The information you receive under this Publication Scheme may be copyright protected and if so, you may need permission from the University to reproduce or re-publish it.
If you need help to make a request for information, please email us.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/policies/cookies:
This policy explains what information we gather when you visit the Middlesex University website, and explains how that information is used.
It is important for you to appreciate that the website contains extensive links to and from other independent third-party sites, both within the University and elsewhere.
This policy covers the central website, represented by URLs starting www.mdx.ac.uk .
You will need to consult the appropriate information on other sites for information on their policies.
Middlesex University is not responsible for any cookies that may be set by third party websites that are linked to from pages on this site.
In common with most websites, this site automatically logs certain information about every request made of it (see below for more details).
This information is used for system administration, for bug tracking, and for producing usage statistics.
We may collect and process the following data about you:
The following data is automatically collected for each request:
Logging of additional data may be enabled temporarily from time to time for specific purposes.
In addition, the computers on which the website is hosted keep records of attempts (authorised and unauthorised) to use them for purposes other than access to the web server.
This data typically includes:
Information about the University's use of personal data is available in our privacy policy .
This website uses cookies, which are small pieces of information that are issued to your computer or other internet-enabled device when you visit the website.
Cookies are stored by your browser and hard drive and are used to distinguish you from other visitors to the site.
The web browsers of most computers are set up to accept cookies.
You can enable your web browser to disable cookies or prompt you when a website is attempting to add a cookie.
You can also delete cookies that have previously been added to your computer's cookie file.
Please visit the Information Commissioner's Office website to find out how to disable and delete cookies.
Type
Name
Purpose
Session cookies
announcement_info
Information if user close announcement window
cookies_info
Information if user accepts cookies
pages
Information about saved pages
SQ_SYSTEM_SESSION
Automatically generated by Matrix lzZf
ScreenColour
Stores selected value if user selects screen colour in accessibility options
TextSize
Stores selected value if user selects text size in accessibility options
Google Analytics
ga
Used to distinguish users.
_utma
Used to distinguish users and sessions.
The cookie is created when the javascript library executes and no existing __utma cookies exists.
The cookie is updated every time data is sent to Google Analytics.
_utmb
Used to determine new sessions/visits.
The cookie is created when the javascript library executes and no existing __utmb cookies exists.
_utmc
Not used in ga.js.
Set for interoperability with urchin.js.
Historically, this cookie operated in conjunction with the __utmb cookie to determine whether the user was in a new session/visit.
_utmz
Stores the traffic source or campaign that explains how the user reached your site.
The cookie is created when the javascript library executes and is updated every time data is sent to Google Analytics.
_utmv
Used to store visitor-level custom variable data.
This cookie is created when a developer uses the _setCustomVar method with a visitor level custom variable.
This cookie was also used for the deprecated _setVar method.
Google Maps
PREF NID
Google used these to track how many people are using their maps, which appear on our location pages.
SiteImprove Analytics
nmstat
Persistent – expires after 1000 days.
This cookie is used to help record the visitor’s use of the website.
It is used to collect statistics about site usage such as when the visitor last visited the site.
This information is then used to improve the user experience on the website.
This Siteimprove Analytics cookie contains a randomly generated ID used to recognise the browser when a visitor reads a page.
The cookie contains no personal information and is used only for web analytics.
Cookies outside of our mdx.ac.uk domain
Information
DoubleClick by Google
id
Google uses these cookies to improve your online experience, while tracking ad response rates to improve the effectiveness of online advertising on external websites.
Read the overview of advertising and privacy at Google.
Session cookie
siteimproveses
SiteImprove uses this cookie to track the sequence of pages a visitor looks at during a visit to the site.
This information can be used to reduce user journeys, and enable visitors to find relevant information quicker.
Read more about SiteImprove Analytics.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/policies/privacy:
The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) protects the rights of individuals by setting out certain rules as to what organisations can and cannot do with information about people.
A key element to this is the principle to process individuals’ data lawfully and fairly.
In order to meet the fairness part of this we need to provide information on how we process personal data.
The University takes its obligations under the GDPR very seriously and will always ensure personal data is collected, handled, stored and shared in a secure manner.
The following statements will outline what personal data we collect, how we use it and who we share it with.
It will also provide guidance on your individual rights and how to make a complaint to the Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO), the regulator for data protection in the UK.
Appropriate Policy Document
Data Protection Policy
Data Privacy Impact Assessment (DPIA) Policy
General Privacy Notice Policy
Lawful Basis of Processing Student Personal Data
Middlesex University Group Privacy Notice & MU Services Limited Privacy Notice for Staff
Privacy Notice for Research Participants
Rights to Erasure Policy
Statement of Tasks in the Public Interest
Subject Access Request Policy
Data Protection Officer Middlesex University The Burroughs London NW4 4BT
Tel: +44 (0)20 8411 5000 Email: dpaofficer@mdx.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/policies:
See the full Learning and Quality Enhancement Handbook.
Learn more about our procedures, assessments and frameworks.
Regulations for Taught Programmes 2024-25
Regulations for Postgraduate Research Programmes 2024-25
Regulations for Apprenticeship Programmes  2024-25
Regulations for the Police Education Consortium 2025
The position of Academic Registrar has been discontinued.
Where the ‘Academic Registrar’ is referenced in regulations, policies, or processes, the duties and responsibilities will, until further notice, be fulfilled by an appropriate Middlesex University senior leader.
List of changes to the University Regulations for 2024/25
List of changes to the University Regulations for 2023/24
Regulations for Taught Programmes of study 2023-24
Regulations for Apprenticeship Programmes 2023/24
Regulations for Postgraduate Research Programmes 2023-24
Regulations for Postgraduate Research Programmes 2022-23
Regulations for Postgraduate Research Programmes 2021-22
Regulations for Taught Programmes of study 2022-23
Regulations for Apprenticeship Programmes 2022/23
Regulations for Taught Programmes of study 2021-22
Regulations for Taught Programmes of study 2020-21
Regulations for Taught Programmes of study 2019-20
Regulations for Taught Programmes of study 2018-19
Regulations for Taught Programmes of study 2017-18
Regulations for Taught Programmes of study 2016-17
Regulations for Taught Programmes of study 2015-16
Regulations for Taught Programmes of study 2014-15
Regulations for Taught Programmes of study 2013-14
Regulations for Taught Programmes of study 2012-13
Regulations for Postgraduate Research Programmes 2019-20
Regulations for Postgraduate Research Programmes 2018-19
Regulations for Postgraduate Research Programmes 2017-18
Regulations for Postgraduate Research Programmes 2016-17
Regulations for Research Degree Programmes 2015-16
Regulations for Postgraduate Research Programmes 2014-15
Regulations for Postgraduate Professional Studies Programmes 2014-15
As a Higher Education provider registered with the Office for Students (OfS) we are required to provide transparency data on specific areas regarding undergraduate attainment.
In accordance with the structure of governance of Middlesex University, the Board of Governors of the University are responsible for the administration and management of the University's affairs and are required to present audited financial statements for each financial year, which ends on 31 July.
Middlesex University holds the copyright on this information and only our students and staff are permitted to reproduce any of this material.
To quote any statistics listed here, please acknowledge the source material.
To use this data for commercial purposes, contact us for written consent.
How to access all types of recorded data , including about the services we offer and how we make decisions.
Our ethics guidelines make sure we follow the highest possible standards of decision-making and accountability.
Middlesex University Higher Education Corporation The Burroughs London NW4 4BT
Since 2021, we have adopted in full the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance (IHRA) working definition of antisemitism , as unanimously agreed by the Middlesex University Board of Governors and with the full support of our Students’ Union (MDXSU).
The University had explored the definition with students and staff as well with MDXSU, the University Jewish Society and local and national Jewish and multi faith groups.
We use this definition to inform our approaches to equality, diversity and inclusion as well as using it as a reference point for the operation of the University’s Dignity at Work Policy and student conduct and discipline policies.
Sometimes, we'll ask you to submit personal information.
Find out how we collect, use and store these details .
Our Cookie policy explains what information we gather when you visit the Middlesex University website, and explains how that information is used.
Learn how we ensure our website content can be reached by everyone, including users with slow internet connections, physical or sensory impairments – or those visiting our website through assistive technology.
Our shared commitment with our students to the community at Middlesex and how we support our students’ success.
Our gender pay policy and our Gender Pay Reporting under the Equality Act 2010 (Specific Duties and Public Authorities) Regulations 2017.
Find out Information about trade union activity at Middlesex .The Trade Union (Facility Time Publication Requirements) Regulations 2017 requires us to publish information on this annually.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/study-abroad-and-exchanges:
Make the world your campus with opportunities to study at our global campuses in London, Dubai and Mauritius.
You can discover the world when you study abroad during your course.
Choose a study exchange with our two international campuses and over 100 partner universities across the world.
Or choose an international work placement to enhance your employability.
See study abroad options
You can study part of your degree at Middlesex University while you are a student at another university.
Middlesex is located across three continents with campuses in London, Dubai and Mauritius.
Wherever you study with us, you'll find the same high standard of teaching and facilities on campus.
You'll get unique new experiences and make worldwide working relationships.
And you can transfer between campuses during your studies too.
Discover more about our range of courses and get a feel for life at Middlesex for yourself at our next Open Day.
When you study or complete a traineeship abroad, you improve your employability skills too.
Your exchange experience increases your choice of careers in the UK and around the world.
Your successful time away enables you to develop key competencies which employers are looking for, like flexibility, resilience and intercultural awareness.
All while having the experience of a lifetime!
Your study abroad options .
So I decided to spend my year here because it's London.
It's such a big city.
It's also a bit of a hub for the world.
It's really an international spot, which means I get a lot of experience with other cultures.
Why not?
I mean, you gain lots of experience.
You develop your skills, develop your CV.
Do you make new contacts?
I do want to work in a multinational company, and London is the business hub.
For that, it gives me a lot of placement opportunities.
It was very social.
We're quite lucky that the university put a lot of effort in to make the international students feel really comfortable.
Very explosive.
It's actually really welcoming and really friendly.
There were a lot of people that generally felt that I was excited to have you here, and that just made that transition a lot easier.
We did an interior design internship, and I had a real client which I had to work with.
And the first part is that this project will actually be built in 2024, and my name will be on it.
So that's just amazing.
Everything's a lot hands -on.
We're using different equipment that I wouldn't be using back home, so it's been really nice to see how two different systems show the same thing.
I was shocked because there is so much good food.
There is so many beautiful museums around and art.
I love fashion and shopping.
The charity stores.
I didn't expect how much there would be going on here.
Like, I knew it was a big city and that there's a lot of people, but I didn't realise how there's so much to see, so much to do, and there's so many different parts of London.
I'm, like, a football fanatic, so playing football as well as watching football, having the opportunity to go to stadiums.
I just think that's brilliant.
Quite lucky.
Everyone in my flat is from different places.
I've got some friends that are from, like, France, Spain.
Sri Lanka, South Africa, Philippines.
Switzerland, India, Iran and Uganda.
Colombia, Venezuela.
So it's nice to have, like, a different dynamic of people.
I used to live with people from Canada and India, and one of the nicest memories I have about Canada is when I used to go home.
I entered and I remember this beautiful smile.
of Indian tea.
We're doing like a cooking night so everyone cooks food from each of their countries so we get to talk to each other about foods that they would share within their families.
Before the exchange I can tell I was a completely different person I was very shy I was afraid of asking questions and talking to people I'm not anymore.
Personally would probably have been really independent because you haven't got your families around the corner you haven't got your friends around the corner so you really have to rely on yourself.
It's just to break that barrier of being scared and that's very helpful for your confidence.
That I am very resilient a lot of difficulties do happen when you are moving and I just feel like no matter what obstacle is thrown at me I have the capability to pick myself up and keep going forward and pushing through.
Middlesex is proud to be part of the Erasmus+ network.
Erasmus+ is the European Commission's exchange programme .
It funds opportunities for students to study or gain accredited work experience within the European Union, European Economic Area and Turkey.
Erasmus grants are always subject to availability and to the UK’s ongoing participation in the Erasmus programme.
We've been awarded the Erasmus Charter for Higher Education under ERASMUS+, the 2014-2020 European Union programme for education, training, youth and sport.
How we work with the Erasmus+ programme:
Erasmus Policy Statement.
We have been awarded UK government funding under the Turing scheme , which supports international opportunities in education and training across the world.
It supports Global Britain by enabling students to have life-changing experiences to study or work abroad.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/study-abroad-and-exchanges/study-abroad-for-middlesex-students:
Make the most of our exchange programme to improve your employability skills and have life-changing experiences.
Broaden your horizons - you'll explore a new culture and make overseas contacts while still receiving a high-quality learning experience.
Studying abroad is ideal if you're keen on developing your foreign language skills but there are tons of opportunities available where English is all you need to succeed.
Get a competitive advantage in the job market - students who have completed a study exchange are flexible, resilient, and have great intercultural skills; all key competencies employers are looking for.
Download our application form
When you study at Middlesex in London, you can transfer to our global network of campuses in Dubai and Mauritius .
The Turing scheme is the UK government’s scheme to provide funding for international opportunities in education and training across the world.
Under the scheme, we've been awarded UK government funding which supports international opportunities in education and training across the world.
Contact us via: Tel: +44 (0)20 8411 5579 Email: Our International Mobility Team
Gain the experience of a lifetime!
Many of our courses are available at our branch campuses so you can start your studies at one campus and complete some or all of your course at another.
It's your chance to explore a new culture and make overseas contacts for your career while you get the same high-quality teaching from Middlesex.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding:
Your future is full of possibilities, and we believe nothing should stand in the way of your ambitions.
At Middlesex University, we’re dedicated to helping you achieve your goals with a range of financial support options.
Starting university is an exciting milestone, and we’re here to make the financial side simple and stress-free.
We offer clear tuition fee information, student loans, bursaries, and scholarships, ensuring that you can focus on what really matters, your education and future career .
Whether you're embarking on a bachelor’s degree, stepping up to a master’s, or pursuing a PhD, our financial support is designed to help you succeed.
Plus, with free equipment, meals support with part-time work and student discounts, we’ve got you covered every step of the way.
Learn more about your undergraduate tuition fees and funding options.
Learn more about your postgraduate tuition fees and funding options.
We offer financial support to help make studying in the UK more affordable.
Our dedicated payments page helps to make it easier for you to make payments and stay on top of your finances whilst you are in university.
Our friendly Student Finance team is here to help you understand loans, bursaries, scholarships, and budgeting tips, so you can focus on your studies.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/information-for-parents:
Useful information for parents, carers and guardians about Middlesex University.
We understand applying to university can be challenging for children and their parents, carers or guardians.
On this page, you’ll find information and advice on how to help your child choose their university and course and make an application.
It’s important to find a university where your child feels at home.
Attending an Open Day s the best way to experience a university for yourself and get a better understanding of its location and atmosphere.
Book your open day!
Things to consider:
Our campus is leafy, sustainable and safe, with unique spaces for study and socialising.
Your child can apply for up to 5 courses, so start researching as early as possible to help narrow them down.
Help them to prioritise what's important.
Download our undergraduate prospectus to learn more about how Middlesex can help your child boost their employability and develop the skills and knowledge they need to get the future they want.
Another important decision for your child to make is if they want to live at home, stay in university halls of residence, or rented accommodation.
At Middlesex, we have student halls close to our campus in Hendon and in North West London.
Your child can also search for private accommodation using Middlesexstudentpad to find local rooms, flats, and houses for rent.
At Middlesex, we try to make studying affordable for as many people as possible through our cost of living fund and scholarships and awards, including our Excellence Scholarship worth £2000 per year.
Ask our Student welfare team about what help might be available for your child or visit our student finance page to find out more about how we can help your child with the cost of university.
As a university graduate, your child will have brighter career prospects and greater earning potential.
At Middlesex, our career-focused courses give students the practical skills and confidence needed to stand out in the workplace.
We are top 10 UK University for employability (UniCompare Rankings 2025) and a t op 10 UK university for industry connections and funding in Times Higher Education Young University Rankings 2024.
W e are also a top 20 university for producing business leaders in the UK (Business Money 2023).
Your child will need to apply for all their chosen undergraduate courses through UCAS (the University and Colleges Admissions Service).
To help your child apply to university, it's important to understand how the UCAS application process works.
Find out more about the application process .
To help your son or daughter apply to university, it's important to understand how the UCAS application process works.
Head to ucas.com for their fantastic range of how-to guides for both parent and child.
Once they’ve applied, they can track their applications online, and respond to offers they get.
At Middlesex we also consider applications made after January.
So if you miss the first deadline it’s worth getting in touch to find out your child’s options.
A conditional offer means your child needs to achieve certain exam grades.
An unconditional offer means your child has met all entry requirements.
Some courses might also ask for an interview, portfolio or audition.
If your child applies in January then they should choose their first choice or firm option and their back-up or insurance option in beginning to mid-May.
Then they will decline all other offers.
It's a good idea to make an insurance choice that has lower entry requirements or conditions than their firm choice.
Your child can also defer their entry to university for a year.
Data protection means that we may not always be able to discuss the details of your child's application with you.
Clearing is an alternative way for your child to find a place at university if they don't have one after they get their exam results.
They can apply through Clearing if:
See our guide to what you need to know about Clearing .
Your child should start by looking at the range of courses available through Clearing then call us on.
For data protection purposes, we must speak directly to students when they are making an application.
That means you can’t talk to us on your child's behalf.
There are other useful things you can do to help.
Before they can make sure they have the following:
Welcome Week and Orientation Week help your child to settle in, meet new people and get to know their course and our support services to prepare them for their first term.
It’s great to hear your child has chosen Middlesex University London!
For all our advice, tips and info, find out what happens in the first weeks of university, visit our page for parents and carers of MDX students .
Our applications team are on hand to help children and their parents, guardians and carers understand the admissions process and make an application.
You'll find our range of helpful resources with information and advice on making an application with information and advice on making an application.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/your-future-career:
At Middlesex University, our Careers and Employability Service is dedicated to helping students achieve their career goals.
We are proud to have a 91% graduate success rate, as reported by the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA).
Here at Middlesex, we help you to develop the skills and graduate competencies required within the world of work.
Our courses are career-focused and our award-winning Employability team, MDXworks, provides a range of opportunities and services to support your career development.
You'll have unlimited access to personalised careers and employability support to build your confidence, skills and experience, and your chances of achieving your graduate career goals.
Contact us
Since its launch in 2017, our Unitemps agency has filled over 22,000 roles for students, paid out more than £11 million, and logged nearly 900,000 hours of work.
50 exclusive discipline specific opportunities every academic year, both within the university and local business community
A dedicated Start-up Support Programme which has awarded £90k in awards to 57 student entrepreneurs since 2019
We make the most of our business links to put you in the room with top employers and get you closer to your dream career.
Plus we'll make sure that you have the skills to tell them why they should hire you.
Employers that we work with include PwC, Sky, Warner Bros.
Discovery, Amazon, Microsoft, KPMG, GSK, Civil Service, Harper Collins, and Enterprise Rent a Car, just to mention a few.
Opportunities to engage with our employer partners include:
Unitemps provides students with an ideal place to secure paid flexible work within the University.
As it sits within our MDXworks Careers and Employability Service, we will be able to align these valuable work experience opportunities with our core competency skills development, offering a unique platform for students to truly ‘hit the ground running’ when they graduate.
We can help you secure an internship or placement during your studies.
The placement options that are available to you will depend on the course you study however, these can include year-long placements, short-term internships, intensive one-week roles and community placements run by our Students' Union.
We also established a continuously growing network of over 70 local and national SME industry collaborations, connecting Middlesex students directly with real clients, allowing you to apply and enhance your key skills in a tangible, real-world context.
Moreover, we offer a diverse set of opportunities internally, where teams of students are frequently offered chances to collaborate with different departments, offering a well-rounded and immersive learning experience and preparing you for the dynamic challenges of the professional world.
Our MDXcelerator programme supports students and recent graduates in launching their business ideas.
Since 2019, we've awarded over £90,000 in funding to 57 student entrepreneurs.
The programme offers year-round support through events, pitch challenges, training, and seed funding opportunities.
Our service provides a range of resources and support to help students and graduates navigate their career paths, including career guidance, CV and Cover Letter reviews, interview preparation, job search strategies, networking opportunities, and access to part-time work, internships and placements.
We also offer part-time roles and internships within the university via the MDX Unitemps platform.
Yes, we work closely with employers to facilitate internship and placement opportunities for students both internally and externally.
We advertise available opportunities, provide guidance on application procedures, and offer support throughout the placement process.
Current students can apply for the MDX Internship Scheme or the Summer Placement Programme, offering over 50 roles each year.
Yes, our advisers and offer individualised CV and Cover Letter reviews to help you tailor your application materials to specific job opportunities and showcase your skills and experiences effectively.
Current students can book 1:1 appointments with a faculty-aligned adviser, visit our on-campus office, email us, or attend one of our workshops to obtain the support they need.
Yes, we organise networking events, career fairs, employer presentations, and industry panels throughout the year to connect students with employers and professionals in various fields.
These include Gradstock festival in October and CareerConnect in May, which have cumulatively offered over 10,000 students the opportunity to engage with more than 500 employers since 2018.
We provide access to job boards, online databases, and other resources to assist with job searching.
Additionally, we offer workshops and guidance on effective job search strategies, including networking and using social media for professional purposes.
Yes, we provide lifelong access to our services.
Please check with the team for specific details on alumni services and eligibility.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/information-for-schools:
Our Education Liaison and Outreach team provides information, advice and activities for prospective students and their parents, guardians and teachers.
We work to raise awareness of higher education, focusing in particular on life at Middlesex University.
We offer support to students who will soon be applying to university, as well as working to raise aspirations amongst younger students, especially those poorly represented in higher education.
We also assist international students in the UK through presentations on a wide variety of subjects, including choosing a course, applying through UCAS and finance.
Join us for one of our Education Liaison and Outreach events through the year on campus.
We are also happy to support you on site in your own school activities.
Whether that involves arranging for a student ambassador to talk to pupils or running activities in a careers or university-themed day.
Explore our sections below for a wealth of useful information on finance, applying, events, and information about Middlesex University as well as downloadable resources for your students.
Get in touch
We’ve put together a range of resources to support you if you are considering or have applied to Higher Education.
From information on how to choose a course or university, degree apprenticeships, to applying for student finance as well as practical skills such as problem solving or interview skills, you’ll find activities and presentations to assist.
If you’re a teacher or careers adviser, there are also presentations and activities to equip you with the skills and knowledge to provide support to your students.
Explore our student resources
We’ve put together some resources to support your CPD and equip you with the skills and knowledge to support your students with their next steps.
From personal statement support, including a booklet designed by us to get your students started, to a full range of presentations.
From supporting your students to make choices and a guide to writing their references.
Explore our teacher resources
Our Success Camps are free digital camps, expanding students' knowledge with fun video game design lessons that include core curriculum areas, such as literacy and numeracy.
Explore our resources and expand your students learning through new experiences in video game design.
All our videos are connected to clever and creative projects which enhances students digital skills
Find out about Success Camps
Make Your Mark is our exciting progression scheme for schools.
This scheme aims to be educational, aspirational and interactive.
It is offered to students over a 5- year period during their time at secondary school.
All activities and events are designed to raise awareness of Higher Education and contribute to academic attainment, including development of important life skills.
Explore resources and educational pathways
Visit Make Your Mark website
MDX Life Skills is a series of 3 virtual events for students aged 14-18.
The events are focussed on topics that aren’t typically included in traditional educational contexts but are often equally as important throughout life.
We want participants to join us for a variety of sessions focussed on mental fitness and wellbeing, how to use/save money as a student, how to de-stress, and skills to excel in a work environment.
Check out our on-demand content.
On demand MDX Life Skills sessions
Did you know there were 350+ careers in the NHS and social care sector?
Or that the healthcare industry is one of the few industries with a growing number of jobs?
We held an NHS Health and Social Care Careers Fair with 9 careers panels and 48 speakers from the NHS and healthcare sector showcasing the different careers in the industry.
Our on-demand content from the NHS event is aimed at students in year 10 and above in who are interested in discovering more about a wide variety of careers in health and social care and the different educational pathways and university courses available.
NHS Health and Social Care Careers Fair and on demand sessions
Middlesex University, in partnership with Barnet Education and Learning Service (BELS), is launching a Lifelong Learning Agreement available to all students studying in Barnet schools and colleges.
Learn more about Barnet Lifelong Learning
Okay, so hi, everyone, and thank you so much for joining us for this virtual NHS fair.
We're so glad that you've been able to join us this evening to find out more about the various roles and careers available to you within the NHS.
So we have got a jam packed evening ahead of us.
So there's a number of live talks that you can attend, you're able to talk to doctors, nurses, social care workers, radiologists and radiographers.
And we're really lucky to have tons of speakers from very niche areas that you may or may not have heard of.
And before so, optometry, we'll be hearing from critical care nurses, learning disability therapists, speech and language therapists, learning disabilities, psychologists, and also our university academics will also be there as well.
Just a point to note, you are muted.
So all of our sessions, you will enter and you will be muted, but you are able to ask questions through the Q &A box.
Okay.
So as you can see on the screen, we've got lots of talks happening all evening.
Our first talk will be starting at 4 .45.
And this is around career opportunities in optometry and dentistry.
And at the same time, there's a talk for anyone interested in working in the care sector.
And you can find out all you need to know about becoming a doctor at 5 .15.
And also what a career in mental health looks like and what you might be doing.
So if you're someone who's driven by helping people, then you can check out our nursing session and find out how you can help others.
And this is at 6 .05pm.
And if you'd like to know more about other career roles that might suit you, then head to our allied health profession talk at the same time, or our radiography and radiology talk as well.
So if you're wondering what course you might want to do to get into a particular career area, or you'd just like some advice on applying to higher education to study a healthcare course, then talk to our university experts at 650.
And finally, we have a talk on what it's like to be a pharmacist at 650 as well.
And our event will close at 7 .30pm.
So there's lots of opportunity for you to ask questions, as I said before, to the professionals you're interested in.
So into the different professions that you might be wanting to go into.
We have experts in each of those fields at all of these sessions.
So each session will have a number of speakers in attendance who work in the role associated to that talk.
And all of our sessions will allow you to ask questions about a particular role through the Q &A box.
So this should be found at the bottom of your screens.
If you are on a mobile phone, sometimes this isn't as visible, it may be in the left hand corner.
But you can ask all of your questions there and they'll be answered as part of the session.
We'll also be asking some questions to our speakers to allow you to find out more about the day -to -day activities of a particular job and how each person came to decide this was the career for them.
So they'll be discussing how they decided to go into that particular area, as well as the things about their job and also providing honest opinions about what it's like to work in a fast paced environment, especially during these uncertain times.
So I'd like to open up this fair with a video from Dr.
Curran.
So for those of you on TikTok, you may recognise him.
He is best known for spreading knowledge and information about keeping safe and staying healthy through his videos on TikTok, through Instagram and YouTube.
So this is Dr.
Curran Raj.
And as well as this, he obviously does work in the NHS and he is a surgical doctor and educator within the NHS.
So I'm just going to play a video for you.
Hey guys, Dr.
Curran here.
First of all, I want to apologise for not being able to join you live today.
Unfortunately, I had to film this yesterday because while this career fair is going on, I'll probably be scrubbed up in surgery.
If you've got any pressing questions, feel free to hit me up online.
So I've been working in the NHS for about seven years and I've met people who do all sorts of jobs.
A lot of people tend to assume that the NHS is full of doctors, surgeons, nurses, pharmacists, but there's actually way more.
What if I told you there's more than 350 potential careers out there?
And remember, the NHS isn't just the hospital, it's the community as well.
Okay, check this out.
a 12 year old boy who's anxious can't express himself with words because he's being bullied and his parents have just had a nasty divorce, what do you do?
You help him make puppets based on his favorite tv show characters to help him express his feelings using those puppets.
Now yeah that's an actual job and a really important one, it's a drama therapist.
So when I've got a really busy shift or I'm on call one of the highlights of my day is eating at my current hospital's canteen and the food they serve there is literally the best food I've had in a hospital ever, full stop, literal compliments to the chef.
So if you fancy yourself as a Nigella Lawson with a Mikra Wave or a Jamie Oliver, definitely go and consider becoming a chef in the NHS.
It's just a couple of random jobs you may never have associated with the NHS but you know check out the Step Into NHS website and there's literally hundreds and hundreds of jobs that you probably never thought existed.
So before I leave you to it let's take a moment to recognize the amazing work done by all the frontline workers.
in the hospital, in the community, public transport, delivery drivers, people who work in the supermarket and loads more.
Have an amazing careers day, best of luck.
So that was Dr.
Karan Raj.
For anyone that's just joined us, Dr.
Karan Raj is best known for his work on TikTok.
He does also work within the NHS as a surgical doctor and educator, but he spreads knowledge and information about keeping safe and staying healthy through his short videos on TikTok, through Instagram and also YouTube.
He's really, really informative if you want to know more.
And he's also got lots of fun facts as well on his pages, on his social media pages.
So now that Dr.
Karan has given us some information about the various roles that you might be able to go into within the NHS, it's really, really important for us to say how admirable it is that you actually want to go into the NHS and be part of making a difference and working to make a difference in some way.
So without further ado, all that's left to say is for you to enjoy the careers fair.
We hope you find it useful and please check out our live talks and get your questions answered.
We've got a number of useful websites for you to go to as well, just on the left -hand side of the screen.
And one in particular that Dr.
Karan talked about was the Step Into NHS.
If you scan the code on your screen now, that will take you directly to the page.
There's loads of videos on there about different professions and lots of information about gaining work experience, which is often a requirement for some of these healthcare professions that you want to go into.
If you're gonna study those at university, check out the websites.
The NHS has also got a really handy YouTube.
Check out MDX's website if you're interested in studying with us as well.
And as I said, there will also be university representatives running a talk where you can ask all your questions about going into higher education.
and studying a particular healthcare degree.
If you have any questions, you can pop them in the Q &A box.
I may not be the best person to answer those, but I'm happy to pop some of these useful links to you.
If you'd like, just pop me a message on the Q &A to ask for those links.
You should have all received Zoom links to the sessions that you've booked on for, but just as a reminder for when they are, I'll pop that up on the screen for you now.
If you have any questions, please do pop them in the Q &A and I'll be happy to help you.
Otherwise, please do go and enjoy the session.
You have five minutes before the first session starts, so you can go and grab a coffee or a snack or whatever it is that you would like while you're listening to the panels.
So you can attend them all.
You can dip in and out if you would like.
However, there are some running at exactly the same time.
The sessions are on demand.
So if you have booked onto all of them, you can just click that same Zoom link and watch it back.
We'll also be making these available to you in some way after.
So what session would be suitable for midwifery.
You can go into the nursing session.
We do have a midwife within that session as well.
For any sessions that aren't or any professions that aren't covered kind of on this screen, go into the allied health profession session as this is all about all of the other particular professions that you can go into within the NHS.
So there'll be representatives there to answer questions on that as well.
So there's a question here around, do you have to be in all of the sessions?
No, you don't.
You can pick the sessions that you want to go into.
As I said, though, they're all available on demand, so if you've booked onto all of them, then you will have the links anyway and you can watch them back.
Otherwise, you can just go into the talks that are of the most interest to you, but if you don't know what you want to do and you are interested in knowing a bit more about different professions, then you can dip in and out of the sessions listed above.
Okay, I'm going to end this session here because you need to get to your next session that's starting if you're going to any of the ones that are starting at 4 .45.
I'm wishing you all the best of luck with whichever profession you decide to go into and whichever course you book onto.
Take care and we hope that you enjoy the session today.
We offer a variety of talks and workshops that help your students and their parents or guardians prepare for higher education.
Topics covered include:
Book a workshop or talk
This workshop gives crucial advice on the best way to write personal statements.
Our team will visit your school and college and guide your students by providing useful activities to prompt and develop their ideas.
This service can be provided as a workshop delivered to a group of students or as a drop-in session to support individual students with their UCAS personal statement.
Book a personal statement session
We understand that starting higher education can be difficult without a strong family network.
We are here to support you every step of the way from your first application right through to graduation and beyond.
Find out more about our care leaver support
Join an event and experience the perfect opportunity to be on campus and get a taste of university life.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/subjects/art-and-design:
Study in a dedicated creative environment.
You’ll get to work on live briefs, undertake placements and get involved in shows, exhibitions and competitions.
You’ll learn from professional artists and designers, who will inspire and mentor you to help you develop your own unique creative practice.
Join us on campus or online to hear what it's like to be part of our community of staff and students here at Middlesex University London.
We have dedicated facilities on campus for arts and design, fashion, fine art, graphic design, illustration, and interiors.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/subjects/business:
Depending on your area of interest, we have a business course for you.
Whether you would like to learn about digital marketing and branding or would like to pursue a career in HR, our range of courses offer you the chance to choose your own specialisation.
Learn the latest accounting and finance software in our 24/7 Financial Markets Lab.
Silver Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) 2023 Award for very high-quality student experience and student outcomes
Top 20 UK university for business leaders in Novuna Business Cash Flow study 2023
100% of the work submitted to REF 2021 for five disciplines had outstanding (4-star) or very considerable (3-star) impact
We collaborate with +1000 industry and employer partners on education and research
Top 400 global university advancing United Nations’ Sustainable Developments Goals in the Times Higher Education Impact Rankings 2023
Access industry-standard software like Bloomberg and Datastream in our state-of-the-art Financial Markets Lab on campus.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/subjects/cinematics-and-games:
Our industry-experienced tutors will guide you through our film, television and video effects courses.
You’ll have access to work placements with world-renowned broadcasters and production companies by studying with us here in London.
Study for one of our games design courses and get to grips with industry software such including Unity, Processing, OpenFrameworks, Final Cut Pro and Photoshop.
We have dedicated facilities on campus for arts and design, fashion, fine art, graphic design, illustration, interiors and photography.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/subjects/computer-science-engineering-and-maths:
As a Cisco Local Academy with industry-leading partnerships, you'll benefit from our connections with organizations like Siemens and Festo while mastering the practical skills necessary to excel in this field.
Access to excellent facilities such as high-tech labs with the latest Cisco and Xilinx equipment and industry-leading facilities for 3D printing and information modelling will allow you to fast track your career in computer science and design engineering.
Get involved in high-profile external events like New Scientist Live, the Skills Show at the NEC and WorldSkills UK.
Our excellent facilities provide high-tech labs, the latest Cisco and Xilinx equipment, 3D printing and information modelling equipment.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/subjects/creative-media-and-writing:
Our unique courses, focus on high-profile company briefs, equips you with valuable skills for the fast-paced advertising, PR, and branding sectors.
Our digital media and communications program is designed to meet the demands of the creative industries, combining theoretical knowledge with practical skills in new media, video production, website design, and cultural studies.
With support from our experts, you'll learn how to make an impact through words.
Develop your own distinct writing voice as you experiment with language, styles and format.
Whether you want to become a journalist, publisher or copywriter, career-making work experience is just a short tube journey away in Central London.
Our career days, panel discussions with industry experts and alumni events support you with your professional development.
We have a history of successful graduates in writing careers.
You'll find our alumni at organisations including:
We have dedicated facilities on campus for Visual Arts and Design, Media and Performing arts.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/subjects/education:
Middlesex has a long history of teacher training and education scholarship.
We work closely with schools in London to provide opportunities for our trainee teachers to gain crucial real-life experience.
Whether you are already in an educational role and would like to develop your skills, or you would like to kick start your career in a classroom, we have an array of courses to suit your needs.
Explore how education shapes the world outside the classroom by studying for an education studies degree.
Our great connections with local schools in London and the home counties will give you access to a great range of placement opportunities.
Our high-tech suites link the theories of the classroom with the practice of treating patients in a hospital environment with the latest simulators, life-like mannequins and more.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/subjects/healthcare-and-social-work:
Our wide range of professional courses from nursing and midwifery to social work, will set you up for a career in your chosen industry.
Undertake excellent work placements through our NHS partners and local authorities and be guided by expert academic staff to achieve your full potential.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/subjects/law:
At Middlesex, we’re all about giving you the skills that employers really value, whether in legal firms, NGOs, or organizations around the world.
Our LLM program, created in partnership with the College of Legal Practice, combines practical learning with real-world insights.
Plus, our dedicated academics are actively engaged in applying human rights theory globally, ensuring you get the best of both worlds.
Middlesex University London is a high-ranking institution, ranking 6 in the THE Young University Rankings 2024.
Our law tutors are internationally recognised, and we strive to put students at the heart of legal research and innovation.
Immerse yourself in the excitement of the courtroom with moots (mock trials), and gain practical skills through work placements and legal clinics.
We also have an extensive legal practice network that offers work placements across London, providing you with real-world legal experience.
London is a great place to begin a legal career, home to a huge number of practices of all sizes and specialisms.
If you study law at Middlesex you’ll have opportunities to transfer and network between our campuses in London, Dubai, and Mauritius.
Our graduates have secured positions at prestigious organisations like Irwin Mitchell, the US Treasury Department, the Crown Prosecution Service, and the Home Office.
With support from our expert law tutors, you’ll be well-prepared for a successful career in law.
A wide range of law careers are open to graduates with the right skills.
Students can work in-house at firms or for a wide range of different firms of differing sizes, from the ' Magic Circle' to high-street firms serving local communities.
Law specialisms are also wide ranging, from corporate and property law, to human rights and environmental laws, as well as criminal law and litigation, among many others.
Different career paths are also available, some examples being:
We rank 6 among young universities in the UK (Times Higher Education Young University Ranking 2024)
Our graduates work to improve society at organisations like the Barnet Youth Offending Team, Belmarsh Prison, and Prisoners abroad
Our School of Law has assembled a team of globally-respected academics who are influential on the world stage
I'm Sarah Hurani, senior lecturer in law at Middlesex University.
To me, it's always very heart-warming whenever I see students achieving something, an assessment or a bigger thing, which is like getting a job.
A student this year that I've had, she told me that this is the first time where she had gotten a 70% on a coursework and she got a placement in a law firm.
So I felt particularly proud of her.
We have research active and also practice active staff who've worked on advocacy projects or policy projects.
We have EHRAC, which is the European Human Rights Advocacy Centre.
We also have the Legal Advice Centre.
I've seen that students enjoy lectures here, they enjoy their learning experience mainly because of their expertise and passion.
I think that's what makes it special.
Truman in law was my favourite.
Just going through these elements and the men's area, the accessories, seeing how people can be charged, these subjects became my favourites because of the teaching staff.
There's three campuses across three different countries.
So there's the London campus, but there's also a campus in the Mauritius and Dubai.
I've been here for seven years and I've seen students transfer.
You're changing countries, you're getting different experiences, but you don't have to change university.
I think that's a unique feature.
Middlesex offers a lot of facilities.
They have a library that's open 24 hours, which I utilise a lot.
So I was able to do research on different things that I find interesting and it offered all those different subjects.
So first and foremost, obviously, I would say it's through their learning journey.
As a student, you're learning how to write professional emails, you're learning how to balance your workload, balance different deadlines.
And this is something that, you know, you have to deal with in the real world.
You see them growing and I think that's the most important thing.
Open to all incoming undergraduate and postgraduate Law students.
Apply by 10 October 2025.
Visit us on campus or online to hear what it's like to be part of our community of staff and students here at Middlesex University London.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/subjects/natural-sciences:
Study for a range of undergraduate programmes including biosciences, environmental, occupational and public health, as well as medical science courses.
Our excellent facilities include well-equipped research labs and a food inspection and environmental research suite.
You will enhance your studies by taking part in field trips and industry tours.
I'm Dr Helen Roberts, Director of Programs for the Department of Natural Sciences.
Seeing the students progress and graduate and then go on and do amazing things and I've seen students come through and go and work at pharmaceutical companies like Glaxo Smith Cline, some students are going to do PhDs at Cambridge.
I have a student who actually taught on my very first day at Middlesex.
She's now working in a really big lab in the States at the NIH and I couldn't be prouder of her.
So that's what I love about Middlesex, it really has the students at heart.
The courses that we teach are actually accredited by the leaders in the field and the professional bodies so they can be really confident that what they have learned is going to be really valuable in the workplace.
We've got such great facilities here, such great equipment in the lab, such great technology going from proteomics to mass spectrometry, molecular biology facilities.
We have actually a brand new chemistry lab and a new pharmaceutical chemistry computer lab as well for drug modelling and that's really cool.
Compared to other universities, they're really a hidden gem.
Seriously, it was truly an unforgettable course.
I would redo it a thousand times over, that's how good it was.
A lot of our teaching particularly in natural sciences is very, very practical based.
From year one, we are teaching them techniques that they'll be able to use in the lab.
Talking about different theories or different scientific concepts, we always relate that back to the real world and I think that really helps the students to understand the relevance of what we're teaching them.
Everyone is very helpful here and they hold me a lot, like with your degree, with your future studies, with anything you need, you always get support and help.
My favourite moment of the year is normally graduation.
A lot of our students are the first in their family to come to university.
I know that they are doing their family proud as well.
I absolutely love it and as you see all these students that come up on the stage and some of them all wave to me, hi wuss, you know, and just seeing them, it's absolutely lovely.
I think our students are fab.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/subjects/performing-arts:
Our wide range of courses including dance, music and theatre, are supported by fantastic facilities such as on-campus concert hall, dance studios and theatre.
Our wide range of courses including dance, music and theatre, are supported by fantastic facilities such as on-campus concert hall, recording studio and production suite, as well as dance studios and theatre for our performing arts students.
Taught by expert academics, you will gain the skills to succeed in your future career.
Our teaching, performance and rehearsal spaces are designed to support every aspect of the theatre-making process.
You'll find top lighting, sound and video technologies.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/subjects/psychology:
Learn from academics at the forefront of research in areas like cognitive psychology, neuropsychology, and neuroscience.
Build connections with leading institutions like the Priory Hospital, and Great Ormond Street Hospital.
Access state-of-the-art facilities including bioanalytical and virtual reality labs to apply your skills hands-on.
Established in 1968, the Department of Psychology at Middlesex is one of the largest providers of psychology courses in the UK.
Our strong partnerships with other professional psychology organisations provide you with opportunities for work placements, offering hands-on experience in areas like addiction, cancer screening, health promotion, stroke rehabilitation, mental health, and trauma.
You'll learn from leading researchers in cognitive, neuropsychology and neuroscience, as well as teaching staff who regularly advise on government policy.
Our psychology courses help you develop the knowledge to help you unravel the answers about how people behave, think and feel, leaving you equipped for a career in psychology.
You'll study in our cutting-edge £36 million Hatchcroft Building, featuring physiology, social observation, and virtual reality.
Our psychology courses are accredited by the British Psychological Society.
You'll get the chance to make the most of our career connections during your placement module.
Our London location means we work with organisations like Great Ormond Hospital School, St Georges Hospital, the Priory, the Institute of Psychiatry, the UCL Institute of Education, and the Metropolitan Police.
The diverse skills you'll learn in a psychology degree could lead to careers such as:
You could also work in areas such as law, business management or clinical health.
Kickstart your career with a psychology placement.
We work with institutions such as the UCL Institute of Education, Great Ormond Hospital School, St Georges Hospital, the Priory, the Institute of Psychiatry, and the Metropolitan Police.
You'll be taught by leading academics who are therapy practitioners and researchers in mental health, psychological wellbeing and trauma.
Gain access to state-of-the-art facilities and specialist equipment including psychophysiology, auditory cognition, and social observation labs, a video editing suite, and a virtual reality laboratory.
I am Dr.
Jonathan Silas and I'm a senior lecturer at Middlesex University in the psychology department.
We have research laboratories that are dedicated to running experimental psychology work, facilities for developmental psychology, non -invasive brain stimulation.
We can actually not just measure brain states, we can change the way that the brain is working using these specialised techniques.
We run dissertation projects every year and one year we took a group of students and we got a residency at the Science Museum in London.
Being in the museum with the students when it's closed at the beginning so you get to kind of wander around a little bit, also just engaging the public in science and psychology was really exciting.
You get to know every single one of the students and it's like group work all the time so you're switching partners on and on again and again so you know every single person you're familiar with them,
you become friends with them, you know their stories, you support each other so that was the most favourite part for me.
We were one of the first departments to have an academic employability officer.
Within the first year in the first time we begin to get them thinking about what their trajectory is out of the degree.
We offer a sandwich year where students can take a year out fee free and go on a placement and develop in -work employability skills.
We also have a in -year placement option as well.
As soon as you leave here you're ready to go into further education or ready to step into the workplace.
What I found special about Middlesex University is the course that they offered which is psychology and counselling skills.
I think having a basis in psychology is super helpful if you want to go down a more clinical route but the counselling skills aspect of it is really nice for somebody like myself who wants to go down the psychotherapist route because it kind of gives you a bit of an opening into therapeutic approaches, counselling, different ways that you can help other people.
So many students come to study psychology because they have a vested interest, something that they feel about themselves or their life or the peoples in their life that they feel they want to know more about.
So psychology is just so fascinating because that's what the students are bringing part of themselves to the table and that's what makes it exciting.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/subjects/social-sciences:
Our social science courses are designed for those seeking to rigorously explore how we live together, why we behave the way we do as individuals and societies, and how we can influence this.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/subjects/sport-and-exercise-sciences:
Whether your interest is in conditioning, nutrition, coaching, recovery, or anything else, our sports and exercise science courses focus on finding the pinnacle of human performance.
You will learn in leading sports and exercise facilities and work along top professionals and organisations.
Our sport and exercise science courses are designed to equip you with the skills to push the limits of human performance.
You’ll have access to our unique sports facilities at StoneX Stadium, home to Saracens RFC, with top research labs and simulation facilities in the redeveloped West Stand.
The staff delivering our sport and exercise science courses are active sports professionals.
Many are involved in coaching, sport massage and sport performance and maintain close links with industry.
We work closely with prestigious sports organisations like Tottenham Hotspur Football Club and British Weightlifting.
This means you'll be up to date with the latest sports and exercise science industry knowledge and can build your network while you study.
Our London location means great access to networking and employment opportunities in the sport and exercise science fields.
Our graduates work in areas such as sport rehabilitation clinics, health clinics, elite or amateur sports teams, the leisure and fitness industry, or occupational health units.
Graduate roles include:
You'll have the opportunity to work with industry leading organisations such as, Tottenham Hotspur Football Club, Saracens Rugby Club, DP World Tour and British Weightlifting, enabling you to build professional sports and exercise science professional contacts while you study.
Who are you?
Chris Bishop.
Job title.
Associate Professor of Strength and Conditioning.
We are based over at Stonex Stadium, which is the home of Saracen's Rugby Club.
Lots of universities will have similar facilities.
They won't be based or housed at a professional sports organisation.
We've got a member of staff who works at Spurs Women, we've got two members of staff who work at Arsenal Academy, we've got the lead performance scientist for British Weightlifting.
Definitely puts us at the real cutting edge of high-performance sport.
Probably the most important one is that every degrees got a placement module and that essentially just gives the students the opportunity to go out, apply all the underpinning theory, the science into day -to -day practice because we have a lot of alumni in these different sporting organisations.
They send us placement opportunities of various different shapes and sizes every year.
The work that you're doing, seeing it come into fruition after, so learning a simple aspect whether it's to do with biomechanics or physiology or something else and then being able to apply that to something bigger.
You really see that in your mind.
You're like, okay, I've learned this little thing and I can apply this to something that I care more about, whether that's strength and conditioning or physiology or psychology because sport science includes so many different niches that your learning capacity is unlimited.
Truth is the culture, you know.
I think there's a real genuine appreciation of a two -way working relationship between staff and students here.
We can learn just as much from them as hopefully they can from us.
Truth be told, I legitimately love what I do.
The realisation of being a part of their journey that gets them to where they want to go and hopefully being a small part in helping to build their knowledge, build their skills, help develop their behaviours ready for these job roles in elite and professional sports organisations.
Seeing when they do learn those jobs has been nice to see and pretty inspiring on a personal note as well, to be honest.
Our Stone X Stadium near the Hendon campus gives you access to clinical teaching rooms, sports injury clinics and research labs, as well as elite players and coaches.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/facilities/arts-and-creative-industries-facilities:
In our fully-equipped workshops you can work with wood, metal and plastics and the latest technologies, including a computer-controlled 3D printer.
Among the specialist equipment you will have access to are:
We have dedicated facilities in the Grove building for animation, graphic design and illustration.
You can explore traditional hand-drawn 2D animation, digital 2D animation, stop-motion and 3D animation.
Our studios feature:
DSLR cameras and lights available for loan.
Our fashion facilities are equipped with everything you’ll need to hone your skills as a fashion designer and maker.
You’ll be able to use:
Housed in our Grove building, students and staff have dedicated space within the fine art studios, allowing you to fully immerse yourself in your work.
The studios offer a vibrant artistic community and provide you with a unique studio space in which to make, show and think about ideas.
You’ll also have access to all of our other workshops in the Grove building, encompassing everything from 3D design, printmaking, 3D printing, ceramics, photography and much more.
Our Interior Architecture and Design studios are organised to mirror the environment of a commercial design studio preparing you for your professional career after Middlesex.
We have five studios available for both individual and group work.
The studio spaces are designed to enable students to express their own creative vision.
Features include:
You can explore the Special Collections held in the Materials Room in the basement of the Sheppard Library for your artistic projects.
This is a supervised room for research and inspiration, open every day during term-time.
Collections held in the room include:
The Hornsey College of Art Archive and the John Lansdown Archive are also held in the Materials room.
You’ll be able to explore the medium of print in a wide range of traditional and modern formats in our print rooms.
Techniques you can use are:
You’ll have access to:
Our digital media workshops have high-end work stations for all kinds of digital media, from video editing to 3D graphics and music composition.
All the equipment and software you’ll use is industry-standard including:
We house a bespoke newsroom with dedicated studio, green screen and professional software including Avid, NewsCutter and iNews.
You can hone your skills using our industry-standard equipment and software, ensuring you’re ready for a career in news.
As an arts and creative industries student, you can use our two sound-proofed studios to broadcast live shows.
They are equipped to the same standard as independent local radio stations.
Highlights include:
Streaming is available through Middlesex University's network or over the internet via a Shoutcast server.
Our recording studio houses industry-standard equipment, with a dedicated technician on hand to train and support you.
You will be able to use:
Specially designed for the Faculty of Arts and Creative Industries by Sony, our television studio complex is a self-contained facility and provides an environment identical to most broadcast installations.
We have:
Our media and VFX studio is home to a wide range of sophisticated technology, enabling you to create rich visual effects.
The studio includes:
As an arts and creative industries student, you will have access to our media store, with a range of industry-standard video, audio and photography equipment for loan.
As part of the music community at Middlesex you will become part of a culture of excellence driven by first-class equipment and production facilities.
The 100-person concert room includes three grand pianos, and the music studio control room is jam-packed with professional mixing equipment.
You will also have the opportunity to rehearse individually and in groups in sound-treated rehearsal studios with an array of instruments and amplifiers at your disposal.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/facilities/business-facilities:
As an accounting, finance and economics student at Middlesex University you’ll be trained to use a range of industry-standard software, all provided for you on campus.
This is a drone tour of our Business & Law Facilities across our Hendon campus.
With training sessions held in our Financial Markets Lab, Datastream - one of the finance sectors most widely used systems - can be accessed by students.
This information platform receives real-time information about financial markets around the world – the same information used by expert traders, financial advisors and business leaders.
The training either takes place as part of a finance programme or students can sign-up for extra-curricular sessions.
Once training is complete students can book time on their own in the lab to hone their skills.
Sage is one of the most widely used accounting packages in the world, used predominately by small to medium-sized businesses.
Training is an integrated aspect of all accounting undergraduate programmes and it gives students not only the skills to use Sage but also an understanding of how such accounting packages work.
Students also have the opportunity to gain a CIMA certificate in Sage.
OneSource is a widely used corporate tax platform that helps to drive global tax compliance and accounting decisions.
Students will use OneSource as part of their taxation module and compare producing tax computations manually with this comprehensive package.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/facilities/health-and-education-facilities:
We have recently launched our outstanding new clinical health facilities in the West Stand at StoneX Stadium.
Our high-tech simulation suites link the theories of the classroom with the practice of treating patients in a hospital environment with:
Here at Middlesex we have some of the most high - tech nursing and midwifery facilities within the UK.
We use them to practice our clinical skills in an environment that is just like a hospital.
Come inside and have a look.
The facilities at our three Veterinary Nursing sites will equip you with the professional experience needed for the workplace.
Our sites include:
We maintain strong partnership relationships with NHS and independent health and social care organisations so that you’ll have access to excellent placement opportunities as a nursing or midwifery student.
We have approximately 500 pre-registration students out on placement at any one time, with over 400 placements being utilised.
Main placement providers
Our main placement providers are:
In addition to a number of placements in both community and hospital environments in the NHS Trusts and independent sector that are highlighted above, we also have a range of placements in the following areas:
We also work with a number of other London NHS Trusts in supporting a range of pre-registration pathways.
These include (but not limited to):
In addition to students accessing a range of placements in the London region we have excellent partnerships with European Universities and you will be offered opportunities to undertake a period of exchange (depending on availability).
These include placements in Finland, Malta, Denmark, Portugal, Spain and Belgium.
To find out more, please view our study abroad pages .
Excellent facilities including a large collection of resources covering specialism as well as useful online resources.
Dedicated library room with resources that mimic a classroom such as an interactive whiteboard (only Education students have access),  there is also a dedicated Education classroom where most of our creative subjects are taught such as Art, Design and Technology, Music and Science with areas for students to display their work.
Again, this room is only for use for Education students and is predominantly for Primary Education.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/facilities/law-facilities:
As our law student, you’ll have access to world-class facilities designed to provide practical legal training and real-world experience.
From law chambers to dedicated study spaces, our campus facilities are designed to support you in developing your skills and knowledge.
Our state-of-the-art law chambers provide an immersive environment where you can practice advocacy and legal argumentation.
You will be able to participate in simulated legal proceedings in a realistic courtroom with judge’s bench, witness stand and barrister tables.
You will have the opportunity to engage in mooting competitions, mock trials, and practical advocacy training sessions throughout your degree.
Our lecture theatres and seminar rooms are equipped with the latest multimedia technology to ensure clear audio-visual presentations and provide ideal setting for interactive discussions and group work.
Most of our law classes are located in the Quad building, which is the main area and vibrant space of our campus.
In the Quad, you'll find a Costa coffee outlet and a hot food counter offering a variety of healthy meals and snacks, making it an ideal spot to grab a bite between lectures.
You’ll have access to our Sheppard Library with over 1000 study areas, including rooms for group work and quiet study.
Within the library, you'll find a dedicated law library with an extensive collection of textbooks and research materials covering various legal fields.
You’ll also have access to electronic resources, including e-books, e-journals, and legal databases such as Westlaw and Lexis.
Our dedicated law librarian is available to assist with legal research and referencing, ensuring you have everything you need to support your studies.
Whether you prefer to study independently or work in a group, the library provides the ideal environment for your learning needs.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/facilities/science-and-technology-facilities:
As a bio or medical engineering student, you’ll study in some of the best facilities in the UK.
Housed within a new eco-friendly centre specially-built for science and technology, our 30-plus labs include:
Our bioscience suite is equipped with an incredible range of equipment with which you can analyse environmental samples.
Facilities include fluorescence microscopes to examine biological samples.
You will also have access to microbiological and molecular equipment, affording a broad range of analytical capabilities.
Our dedicated cell and tissue culture lab is focused on the culture of mammalian cell lines.
The laboratory's outstanding facilities include:
You can use the lab to discover new biomarkers which can be used to detect disease, as well as in vitro models to determine the efficacy of many potential treatments for disease.
This facility is essential to cancer, reproductive, stem cell and nano-pharmaceutics research at Middlesex.
As a computer communications student in the Faculty of Science and Technology, you will have access to a wide range of advanced equipment and software.
Our state-of-the-art internetworking labs are equipped with:
You will also be able to develop essential skills in digital systems and wireless communications, as well as build your very own hardware using tools and measurement equipment in the dedicated project laboratory.
Resourced with facilities to help you achieve pioneering design projects and research, our design engineering labs are custom built to incorporate the latest in industry standard equipment and software including:
The environmental and occupational health suite contains industry-grade equipment which will enable you to experience the real-world process of investigation, engagement with clients, strategy development and the promotion of best practice in a business setting.
You’ll be using:
Opened in 2008, the laboratories in our £36 million Hatchcroft building are second-to-none.
The building is the home of world-class science research and teaching at Middlesex.
Biomedical students benefit from all the latest equipment, while the specialist BabyLab allows psychology researchers to carry out cutting-edge developmental work.
The Hatchcroft building also houses advanced computing laboratories, where you can undertake research into communication through the use of technology, such as podcasting, interactive mobile devices and social networking.
If you're studying cardiac science, audiology or neurophysiology then you'll learn in our new centre of excellence in the West Stand, StoneX Stadium.
These outstanding facilities include fully equipped diagnostic suites and labs that replicate a professional clinic setting with:
You'll develop your skills on the same systems used in the clinical environment to make sure you are industry-ready when you graduate.
Our unrivalled mass spectrometry and analytical facilities are available for students and researchers studying biomedical sciences, biology and environmental sciences.
Our exceptional array of high-end equipment can support your research in:
Our mechatronics facility has been developed in collaboration with Festo Didactic to ensure it remains at the cutting-edge of automation and manufacturing technology.
In our Psychology Department, you’ll be using a variety of state-of-the-art facilities and equipment for both online and offline teaching, learning and research.
Across the department there is a broad range of expertise in neuroscience, psychophysiology and related disciplines, and our specialist equipment includes:
In our robotics and haptics lab you’ll have access to over 100 workstations with industry-standard equipment and software including:
Interested in sport science?
The London Sport Institute has a new centre for high tech training at the West Stand, Stone X Stadium in partnership with Saracens Rugby Club.
London Sport Institute's facilities in West Stand at Stone X Stadium give you unique access to academy and elite players and coaches.
The space gives you access to advanced technologies to get ahead of the game with spaces including:
Your learning experience with London Sport Institute will mirror real life practice with tech for motion capture, force sensing plates in walls and floors, full body scanning, computer analysis and analysis of blood, urine and cortisol.
Our north London location gives you invaluable access to placements including with Saracens and the Tottenham Hotspur Foundation.
At the London Sport Institute, we have high performance facilities based in the elite sports club, so you get an experience just like the professionals.
We have one of London's biggest and best university campuses with everything you need in one place.
Our centre of excellence for simulation-based learning puts us ahead of other unis with incredible tech that links classroom theory with professional skills.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/graduation:
The 2025 Middlesex University graduation ceremonies took place between 23 and 27 June at the Hendon campus of the University.
Join Vice-Chancellor Professor Shân Wareing as she shares a heartfelt message to celebrate 
your achievements.
At Middlesex, we're lucky that we can host our graduation ceremonies on our leafy, lively campus.
We had a fantastic time celebrating all our grads - we hope you enjoyed it as much as we did.
We're looking forward to next year's celebration of our students' fantastic success.
We recognise achievement at the highest level as well as our honorary graduates' dedication to public duty and making a difference to the lives of others.
Stay part of our community after you graduate when you enrol into our Alumni community.
Even though you've graduated, your path to success doesn't stop here.
Through MDXworks, our dedicated careers and employability service, you'll have access to the tools and guidance you need.
For enquiries regarding our graduation ceremonies please contact us on 0208 411 6770 or graduation@mdx.ac.uk
Please read these terms carefully as your booking and purchase of guest tickets for your Graduation Ceremony constitutes your acceptance of these terms.
Graduates can request to change the date and time of their ceremony however this is under the discretion of the university and cannot be guaranteed.
If the number of graduating students booking for a ceremony exceeds the number of places available for that ceremony then the University has the right to change the ceremony that the student was originally invited to.
If the ceremony is full on the date the student attempts to book they will not be able to book into the ceremony and will be offered an alternative date.
It is your responsibility to inform us if either you or one of your guests has an access requirement.
If you fail to do so before the booking deadline we cannot guarantee that the appropriate arrangements can be put in place in time for your graduation ceremony.
When students book to attend their ceremony there will be a section of the registration form which asks if you have any special requirements.
Please answer yes to this question and we will then contact you to discuss the arrangements.
It is possible for you to cancel your booking and guest tickets before the extra ticket deadline of 11 June at 6pm.
Refunds are made by logging back into your ticket booking and cancelling the tickets.
After the extra ticket deadline we are unable to refund you for your guest tickets.
Tickets do not carry over to future ceremonies.
For photography and gown hire please refer to Ede and Ravenscroft’s terms and conditions.
They can be contacted on 01223 861854.
Children from newborn to age 5 are not permitted into the ceremony marquee but will be able to watch via the video link in the lecture theatre.
Children aged 6 and over must have their own ticket to enter the marquee priced at £30.
If your guest arrives with a child under the age of 6 and is unable to use their ticket we will not provide a refund.
All children below the age of 12 must be supervised by an adult at all times before, during and after the ceremony.
We reserve the right to ask you to leave if children are not being supervised.
All eligible students will have their full names and awards (not classifications) published in the online programme.
This will be carried out under the legal basis of legitimate interest.
If you do not want your name to be published, you must notify us at graduation@mdx.ac.uk and we will remove your details.
All eligible students will have their surname, student number and level of study (not classification) sent to Ede & Ravenscroft via encrypted mail.
This is to enable online booking, ticket sales, robe hire and photography and to ensure the Ede & Ravenscroft have the correct ceremony date and robes for graduates.
This is carried out under the legal basis of legitimate interest.
The Graduation Office will not discuss your student record or any details relating to you graduation with a third party, including parents.
If you would like us to discuss your details with a third party you will need to email us with your consent.
The University Regulations 2024-25 state the following:
Students who have a tuition fee debt to the University will not have a qualification conferred, will not be notified of their final results, nor receive a Certificate or Diploma Supplement, nor be entitled to attend their Graduation Ceremony until the outstanding debt to the University has been paid.
Given the University Regulation if you have an outstanding tuition fee that is not cleared before the booking deadline the University will not allow you to take part in the graduation ceremony.
You will not be able to book to attend your ceremony until the debt clears.
If you are unable to attend your Ceremony, you can request to defer your graduation once to the next appropriate ceremony.
Please confirm in writing to graduation@mdx.ac.uk that you wish to defer by the registration deadline of the current Graduation Ceremony you have been invited to and we will confirm whether we are able to accept your deferral.
If you purchase guest tickets then request to defer you must refund your guest tickets by the published refund deadline.
It is not possible for you to carry over your registration or guests tickets to a future ceremony that you are deferring to.
Instead, you will need to register and purchase guest tickets for your new ceremony, conforming with the new ceremony deadlines.
The graduation invitation will be sent via email to the personal and MDX email addresses of eligible students.
Reminders emails will be sent to students.
Students who have booked to attend their ceremony by the published deadline date will be sent an email to confirm the availability of additional guest tickets as soon as booking closes.
Extra tickets will not be available to those students that did not book by the deadline.
If a student has not received the invite email it is the responsibility of the student to follow this up with the Graduation Office by contacting graduation@mdx.ac.uk
If the Graduation ceremony cannot take place or is delayed or the ceremony time needs to change due to circumstances beyond the control of Middlesex University, including (without limitation):
Middlesex University will not be liable for any losses direct or otherwise incurred by the graduands or their guests with regards to travel or hotel bookings.
The cost of any guest tickets purchased will be refunded.
Once booking opens, you will be able to purchase a maximum of two guest tickets before the published registration deadline.
Tickets cost £30 each and must be purchased via Graduation Services | Ede & Ravenscroft (edeandravenscroft.com).
Once the booking deadline has passed, your two initial guest tickets will not be available as you have not confirmed that you are attending.
These tickets will be released for any student who has booked by the deadline to purchase.
We cannot guarantee that there will be additional tickets available for your ceremony.
If there are any additional guest tickets, they will be sold for £30 each on a first-come, first-served basis.
Students who did not book their ceremony by the published deadline will not be eligible to book guest tickets.
Only students who booked to attend the ceremony before the deadline are eligible to book extra tickets.
After the booking deadline we will contact eligible students to confirm availability of additional tickets.
If you purchase additional tickets, and the guests do not attend, the tickets are not refundable.
We retain the discretion to set the maximum amount of additional tickets you will be able to purchase.
The refund deadline for guest tickets is 6pm on 11th June.
It is not possible for you to use your guest tickets at any graduation ceremony other than the one you have been invited to.
Tickets are not transferable.
We try and make the process of allocating tickets and additional tickets as fair as possible.
We do not permit the transfer of tickets between students or permit any request to the graduation office to transfer tickets.
All guest tickets are required to be collected with photo ID.
Tickets are not transferable.
All guest tickets are required to be collected with photo id.
Refunds cannot be made if your guests do not turn up or cannot make the ceremony.
If you or your guest requires a visa and the visa is refused you must cancel your tickets online by 6pm on 11th June.
If you’re ill on the day of your ceremony and can provide medical evidence a refund may be made in exceptional circumstances.
Please contact the graduation office for further instructions by 11th July.
We do not offer refunds after this date.
You must bring your student card or another form of photo id to your ceremony, allowing sufficient time at the venue to register and collect guest tickets and your academic robe.
We require proof of purchase from all graduates so they can collect their tickets and an academic robe – only the graduand can collect tickets and robes.
All guests need to be seated 15 minutes before the ceremony starts and doors close 5 minutes before the start of the ceremony.
We reserve the right to refuse entry or remove any graduand or guest where it appears to us in our sole discretion to be necessary for the good conduct of proceedings and/or the safety, health and wellbeing of graduands, guests or staff.
We reserve the right to refuse entry to the ceremony if either the graduate or guest if you arrive after the ceremony starts.
After this time you we will move you to the next available ceremony which may be the same or the next day.
Refunds will not be offered for latecomers.
Students must book to attend their ceremony before the published deadline to guarantee their place at the ceremony.
If they fail to book by the deadline date the university will offer them a place at a ceremony where there are places available however this will be on the day first come first served booking.
The university is under no obligation to provide these students with guest tickets if they fail to book by the published deadline.
The university is under no obligation to let you attend a ceremony if you turn up on the day without having pre-booked.
Robes can be hired through the University’s official robe suppliers, Ede and Ravenscroft.
It is compulsory to wear robes to attend your ceremony.
If you arrive at the ceremony wearing incorrect robes then you will not be admitted into the ceremony.
Please contact Ede and Ravenscroft directly for their refund policy.
All footage filmed at the ceremony may be used by Middlesex University for media publications and advertising.
Ceremony films will be archived for future reference.
All graduands and guests should be aware that they may feature in this footage.
By registering to take party in your graduation ceremony and by purchasing guest tickets, you are giving permission for your image to be recorded.
If you have an accessibility request either for yourself or a guest please check the tick box when you book your ceremony ticket and we will contact you for further details.
Ede and Ravenscroft are the official suppliers of our gowns and graduation photography and these can be booked when ordering your ceremony tickets.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/student-life/chat-with-students:
Welcome to our Course Ambassador Hub.
From here you'll be able to see all our current course ambassadors and ask them any questions you want through our Middlesex University live chat function.
Whether you want to find out which is the best hall of residence for you, or you have some questions about how to travel to campus, or you want to know more about student life, a chat with one of our ambassadors is a great way to find out what studying at Middlesex is really like.
To contact a course ambassador you will need to create an account with our Unibuddy system.
Once you have an account, simply click on an ambassador's profile in the widget below to start a conversation, or explore topics by selecting ‘content.’
Please note Our course ambassadors are current students and thus are not equipped to assist you with application questions.
Please contact the Admission team for questions about your application or the application process, scholarships, or residence permits.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/get-in-touch/ask-a-question:
If you have any questions for us, please fill in the form below and we will respond to you as quickly as we are able

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-story/our-approach-to-research:
Our research network is collaborative, inclusive and global.
Together, we are building a world that's fairer, more sustainable, productive and prosperous.
We create new knowledge that our academics and students put into action through innovative research projects and industry partnerships in the locations where we have campuses – in London, Dubai and Mauritius –, in the UK and around the world.
Research underpins our wide range of disciplines and is a priority for our future at Middlesex.
We have a distinctive research and knowledge exchange culture, with diverse young research talent who take a collaborative approach.
Our research and knowledge exchange contribute to resolving problems in the world around us, in the framework of the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals.
The impact of our work is nationally and internationally recognised for transforming practice beyond our community, from nanotechnology in cancer treatment to blockchain in the music industry to performance analysis to help elite athletes in competition.
We take action as a global community towards our vision to make healthcare better for those who need it, and we aim to reduce inequalities in people’s care.
Beyond healthcare, we aim to improve physical, mental and social health and wellbeing in all parts of society.
Our research includes suicide prevention, with partners including Samaritans and the rail industry, which has reduced the number of deaths by suicide and led to changes in practice.
We use culture and creativity to enrich the lives of individuals and communities and we contribute to organisations of all types through impactful research and knowledge exchange.
We believe that entrepreneurship can have a powerful role in a fair and inclusive future and are proud to educate and support entrepreneurs and creative talents to make their contribution to an equitable future.
Take artist and academic Keith Piper, from the School of Arts, who is researching issues of race and the legacies of empire to create a response to a controversial Tate Britain mural.
We support people locally, nationally, and around the world to protect the environment and make their communities fairer and more sustainable.
Made possible through our research and knowledge exchange, our expertise influences economic, social and environmental policy and practice.
The work of the Flood Hazard Research Centre helps at risk communities across the UK to avoid flood risk damage and its social and economic impact, giving support to homeowners.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/why-choose-middlesex:
Discover how you can make your future at Middlesex - your North London University.
Discover a future that’s yours to make at Middlesex University.
We pride ourselves on our specialist, practice-based undergraduate courses led by expert industry leaders.
Find out more about how we do uni differently...
Being a student at Middlesex means getting stuck in.
We call it learning through doing.
From building robots in labs to creating street theatre performances, every course offers real-world opportunities to see the theory in action.
With us, you’ll gain real-world skills, knowledge and experience to help boost your employability with our students working with some of the biggest names like Google, ASOS, Disney, NHS Trusts, and Deloitte.
You’ll learn from expert educators who are making a real difference.
Sarah Chitongo, our midwifery educator tackling inequalities in care for BAME patients, and researchers pioneering AI for business at the London Digital Twin Research Centre.
You’ll benefit from connections with over 1,000 industry partners all over the world.
They make sure that what and how we teach through our specialist courses is current and reflects employers’ needs to prepare you for your future.
Join us and you'll never be short of opportunities for practical work to enhance what you learn in the classroom.
Placements, industry projects, internships, work and study abroad opportunities...
you name it, we probably offer it.
Our excellent Careers and Employability Service offers lifetime career support for every step of your professional journey, like starting your own business!
Your well-being is our priority, and we offer a range of support, including mental health, financial support packages, disability, and careers, to ensure we help you reach your potential.
You’ll have guaranteed 1-to-1 time with a personal tutor and award-winning academic support from our learning assistants.
We’re here to support you and celebrate your success.
Whether you’re new to London or born and bred in the capital, we know you’ll love studying in North London, which has been voted the best student city in the world for the last two years.
Spend your free time exploring Camden’s Lock Market, super clubs such as Drumsheds or premiership sports teams.
Take inspiration from centuries of rich history and culture in London’s museums and catch your breath in Hampstead Heath Park.
You'll get the best of both worlds with relaxing green spaces and iconic North London attractions on your doorstep whilst only being a short walk or Tube ride away from iconic London landmarks and social spaces.
On campus, you’ll learn in state-of-the-art facilities , like our augmented reality equipment for nursing and midwifery and our Hollywood-grade motion capture suite.
You’ll also be able to work flexibly off-campus using specialist software and the latest communication tools.
We pioneered the UK’s first cyber factory, and created augmented reality equipment for nursing and midwifery.
If you’re joining us in the United Arab Emirates, you’re part of the first UK university to have a campus in each of Dubai’s higher education hubs.
Or joining us in Mauritius?
We have one of the biggest and best-equipped campuses in the country.
Here, you’ll find your place in our friendly and diverse global community and make your future at Middlesex.
Studying at Middlesex University offers a dynamic and enriching experience for you to grow, learn and shape your future.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-offer-holders:
Congratulations on securing your place at Middlesex University.
We're here to support you every step of the way as you begin your journey at Middlesex – we can’t wait to see you.
You’ve secured your place at Middlesex University, and we’re excited to have you join us.
This is just the beginning of your journey, and we’re here to support you every step of the way.
We’ve pulled together everything you need to help you feel confident, prepared, and inspired to start settling into London’s No.1 university (WUSCAs 2025).
Let’s get started.
Before arriving on campus, complete your online enrolment .
This involves confirming your personal details, selecting modules, and registering for classes.
You will receive an email with instructions on how to do this closer to the start of term.
If you need university accommodation, apply as soon as possible to secure your preferred choice.
Our on-campus and nearby housing options provide a comfortable and convenient living environment.
Visit our Accommodation page for more details and application deadlines.
Ensure your tuition fees and living expenses are covered.
Explore our scholarships, grants, and loan options available to you.
For more information, visit our Fees and Funding page.
Fees and Funding
Check your offer letter for any required documents, such as academic transcripts, English language test results, or identification documents.
Upload these to your MyMDX account to complete your admission process.
Whether you're travelling from within the UK or internationally, plan your arrival on campus.
Book your travel in advance and explore our International Student Guide for tips on adjusting to life in the UK.
Our Ready for Anything programme will help get you set up for your transition into university life.
Join us this August and September, for an inclusive set of activities that reflect the culture and values of Middlesex.
You can expect a range of activities including connecting with #TeamMDX, advice from our support services, exploring your north London campus and many more exciting activities!
Our Unibuddy Community is your go-to hub for connecting with current and incoming students.
It’s the perfect place to get a feel for Middlesex and make a smooth transition into university life.
Join our Unibuddy Community
We’re so excited to welcome you to our vibrant, inclusive north London community.
We know there's a lot to think about as you prepare for university.
Our team are here to help you with any questions.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/entry-requirements-for-undergraduates:
Check what qualifications you need for your course before you start your application
We take a personalised but fair approach to how we make offers.
We feel it’s important that our applicants continue to aspire to achieving great results, and make offers which take into account pieces of information provided to us on the application form.
If you don’t quite make the grades you hoped to, we’ll always aim to be as flexible as possible when making our final decision on your application.
We’ll look at more than just exam results where we are able to, and aim to take into consideration barriers you may have had to your learning or other information from your school or college.
We take a flexible approach to admissions that is personalised to you and takes into consideration information provided on your application form.
There are general entry requirements as well subject-specific requirements for our courses.
We consider the following when we make our initial offers:
Once we receive your grades, if you haven't reached the level we initially asked you, we will always aim to be flexible where we can, looking at how we recognise potential in different ways at this stage.
In particular, where there has been disruption to your learning, we will aim to consider other assessments you may have undertaken, or what your teachers thought you should have achieved through your predicated grades.
On each course page you will find entry requirements for the course along with more detail on exactly what qualifications we will consider for it.
If you are taking A level or BTEC qualifications, we have provided a range in which we will make our offer (e.g.
BBB – BBC in A levels).
Where we are able to determine that you may have had any barriers to learning as part of your initial application (e.g.
through you leaving care, applying for asylum etc.) we will make the offer at the lower end of the range.
By using a range and being flexible in this way, it also means we’re able to look at additional information available to us once you have received your qualifications, or that you and your school may be able to provide at that stage.
Where you are studying a combination of qualifications (e.g.
A level and BTEC), we provide the UCAS tariff points we require.
You can work out how many points are awarded to your qualifications using the UCAS Tariff Tables .
Then you can use the UCAS tariff points calculator to work out how many UCAS points your qualifications are worth.
Got a question about entry requirements or your application?
Check your chosen course page for specific entry requirements.
The table below shows typical grades required by Middlesex University, depending on your chosen course but we also consider a combination of qualifications.
For our undergraduate courses, you are normally required to achieve passes in three GCSE subjects, including English, with a score of 4 or Grade C if awarded before 2017.
For some courses it may also be necessary to have a score of 4 in other specified subjects such as Maths and Science.
With the exception of our teaching courses, we normally accept Level 2 Functional skills or Level 2 Key skills as equivalents.
These are acceptable both on their own and in combination with other qualifications.
A minimum of 2 GCE A Levels to a maximum of 3 GCE A levels will be considered.
GCE AS levels can be used in substitution for up to one GCE A level (i.e.
two GCE AS levels in lieu of one GCE A level).
GCE A or AS levels in General Studies will normally be accepted unless specifically excluded from the terms of an offer made to an applicant.
Applicants with the Access to HE Diploma should normally have had a break from full-time education before undertaking the Access course.
Successful completion of this course requires students to gain 60 credits, with 45 credits at Level 3 and 15 credits at Level 2.
For some programmes of study Middlesex will require applicants to gain Merit or Distinction grades in a number of units.
If your Access to HE course did not include GCSE equivalencies in English and/or Maths, then you will also be required to submit evidence of your GCSE English and Maths grades at Grade C or higher.
We can also accept Key skills or Functional skills at level 2 instead of GCSEs.
The only exception to this are our Teaching courses where we cannot accept Functional or Key skills instead of GCSEs.
These are acceptable in combination with other qualifications.
Applicants for BA (Hons) Accounting and Finance who have completed AAT Level 3 in Accounting are eligible to apply to the first year of the course with this qualification alone.
This is only acceptable for entry onto related programmes of study and should be combined with at least one GCE A level (or equivalent).
These are acceptable but will only be considered for entry on to courses in subjects closely related to the Diploma lines currently offered.
These are acceptable in addition to any requirement awarded from an applicants' GCE A level.
These are acceptable to the University.
This is only acceptable for entry onto related programmes of study.
Applicants are expected to be taking the qualification at the Diploma level and subsidiary awards (Certificate, Subsidiary Certificate, Award and Subsidiary Award) are not acceptable on their own or in combination with other qualifications.
Applicants are expected to have studied for the Diploma or Extended Diploma.
The Certificate, Subsidiary Diploma and 90 Credit Diploma are expected to be studied in combination to equal that of at least the Diploma (for example, the Subsidiary Diploma would need to be offered in combination with either a Diploma or two GCE A levels).
Applicants are expected to have studied at least two specialist Diplomas (or equivalent).
The Diploma is acceptable in isolation, however the Certificate and the Award should be offered in combination with other qualifications.
This is only acceptable for entry onto related programmes of study and can not be combined with other qualifications.
We require a minimum of two Principle Subjects to a maximum of three (or equivalent).
This is acceptable in combination with other qualifications (for example at least one GCE A level or equivalent).
The Diploma in Foundation Studies (Art & Design, and Art, Design & Media) includes the ABC Awards level 3 Diploma in Foundation Studies (Art and Design), the ABC Level 3 Foundation Diploma in Art, Design and Media, the Edexcel level 3 BTEC Foundation Diploma in Art and Design, the University of the Arts (UAL) Foundation Diploma in Art and Design, and the WJEC Diploma in Foundation Studies (Art, Design and Media.
These are only acceptable for entry onto related programmes of study and can not be combined with other qualifications.
This is acceptable if taken in combination with other qualifications (for example at least one GCE A level and one GCE AS level) and not as part of the Progression/Advanced Diploma.
This is acceptable and the University will accept up to a maximum of six subjects taken as part of the Diploma.
These are acceptable in combination with other qualifications (for example DipFS with at least one GCE A level or CeFS with at least one GCE A level and one GCE AS level).
It is not possible to count the points from both the CeFS and DipFS.
You must have passed the full IB Diploma.
In some cases applicants will also need to have studied certain subjects at Standard or Higher Level.
These subjects are acceptable both on their own and in combination with other qualifications.
Your application will be counted if you will pass a minimum of five subjects at either Higher or Ordinary Level to a maximum of seven.
This is acceptable either on its own or in combination with other qualifications.
The Certificate, Introductory Diploma, and Subsidiary Diploma are expected to be studied in combination to equal that of at least the Diploma (for example, the Introductory Diploma would need to be offered in combination with either a Diploma or two GCE A levels).
The subject area of the Technical should normally be related to the intended programme of study.
This is acceptable in combination with other qualifications (for example at least two GCE A level or equivalent).
This is acceptable both on their own and in combination with other qualifications.
Applicants are expected to have studied for the National Extended Diploma or National Diploma.
The National Certificate is expected to be studied in combination to equal that of at least the National Diploma (for example at least one GCE A level).
The subject area of the OCR National should normally be related to the intended programme of study.
This is acceptable if taken in combination with other qualifications (for example at least one GCE A level).
You will require a minimum of two Advanced Highers or three Highers and a maximum of 5 Scottish higher qualifications.
We'll accept T Levels for entry onto our undergraduate degree courses (including our extended courses with a foundation year) with standard application of science requirements and GCSE’s in line with UCAS tariff calculation.
Recognition of previous learning and experience If you have been working, or you have other learning experience that is relevant to your course, then we can count this towards your entry requirements and even certain modules once you start studying.
How to claim for previous learning
There are some qualifications that do not normally form part of a formal offer that we have listed below.
However, they do indicate that you have a broad range of interests and are prepared for higher education.
So we would be pleased to see them included within an application and discussed in a personal statement.
If you don't quite meet the requirements for your selected course, our Foundation year courses could be the answer.
Mature students are welcome to apply.
If you have been out of formal education for a number of years or need to develop your subject knowledge further, we recommend studying an Access to HE Diploma.
We may also invite you to an interview to assess your knowledge.
Our Admissions Team staff can advise on individual applications and admission arrangements.
If your application is successfully shortlisted, you will be required to book an interview with us.
We have a selection of dates available including weekdays and Saturdays.
The interview panel will consist of a member of the university academic staff, a clinician from one of our partnership Trust and we also invite service users to attend.
You interview is planned to last around 20-30 minutes.
Many of our undergraduate courses allow you to transfer into the second or third year if you have achieved one of the following:
We have partnership agreements in place with almost 180 institutions in the UK and across Asia, Africa, Europe and North America that allow you to transfer credit from specific programmes to towards some programmes at Middlesex.
See the full list of these partners.
If you are transferring onto a course that is accredited by a professional body, such as British Psychological Society or The Association of Chartered Certified Accountants, you should be aware that you might not automatically get the accreditation.
This is because some professional bodies have their own requirements for giving their accreditation such as modules completed or grades.
The following table is a general guide to what would be required if you are considering joining Middlesex for Year 2 and 3.
Bachelors degrees (BSc and BA) are equivalent to 360 Middlesex University (MDX) credits or 180 European Credit Transfer and Accumulation System (ECTS) credits.
In some cases, we'll ask you to come for an interview, submit a portfolio or attend a test or audition in addition to your application form.
Learn more about interviews, portfolios and auditions at Middlesex

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/interviews-portfolios-and-auditions:
Our tips and advice to help you prepare and do your best on the day
Some of our courses have some further entry requirements such as a test, interview, audition or portfolio.
They are useful to help us:
They also help you to find out more about us and whether Middlesex is right for you.
Use this information to plan ahead and prepare for what to expect.
That way you can make the most of this opportunity to show us what you can do and what you'd like to do in future.
Our interviews are designed to see what kind of person you are and why you want to study your chosen course.
Use these tips to help you prepare.
Plan your journey - travelling on London transport is easy if you plan ahead.
Use the TFL website to map out your journey and check that you have the right tickets
Arrive early - this will give you the chance to find the correct room, go to the toilet, get a drink and collect your thoughts beforehand
Dress appropriately - you won't be expected to be in formal wear but you should present yourself as a future professional
Look over your application again - it's likely the interviewers will ask you about what you wrote so be prepared to speak about it
Stay calm - some nervousness can be positive and help you perform well in the interview but try to keep it under control.
Take a few deep breaths before you enter the room, listen carefully to the questions and consider your answers before speaking.
Show you can think for yourself - university is all about thinking for yourself so interviewers are looking for you to have your own ideas and be able to reach your own conclusions
Show them who you are, not just what you've done - the interviewer will have an idea of what you've achieved from your UCAS form and personal statement.
The interview is designed for you to meet the tutors so they can find out more about you, your interests and your personality.
Be ready for universal questions - there will be some universal questions which are almost certain to appear in your interview such as why do you want to do this course?
What makes you think you're a suitable candidate?
What experience do you have in this field?
Try to anticipate as many of these questions as you can and prepare an answer for them
Show knowledge of your subject - convince the interviewers that you're passionate about your subject by demonstrating what you know.
Use correct terminology and show that you're up-to-date with new developments.
Come ready to have an intelligent discussion around the subject
Read up on the course - make sure you know as much as possible about the course.
Identify a specific module you're excited about and make sure you can explain why so the interviewers will see that you've given this consideration
Think of questions to ask at the end - normally an interviewer will end by asking "Do you have any questions you'd like to ask us?".
Make the most of this opportunity and think of questions in advance to ask about the course, the university or your career prospects.
This will end the interview on a positive note
If you don't understand a question, ask for clarification - don't be afraid to ask the interviewer to repeat the question.
That's better than guessing what they might have said and answering the question wrong.
There is a list of courses that include a test, interview, audition or portfolio below.
Go to the course page and read through the entry requirements section to find out what you need to do.
If we invite you to come and meet us then we will send you further details about where to go and when.
You might like

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/how-to-apply-for-undergraduate-courses:
You must apply for your full-time undergraduate course through the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS).
Find a course and apply now to start an undergraduate course that will give you the opportunity to experience learning alongside the world of work, preparing you for the future.
You can transfer from another uni into many of our full-time courses in year two or three.
Check our entry requirements for transferring students and then apply through UCAS.
For nursing and midwifery applications, we'll contact you within six weeks to let you know if you are shortlisted for an interview.
Support from our team - check out our online resources about writing your personal statement and more.
Help from UCAS - find articles and videos to support your application on their website.
To study an undergraduate course on a part-time basis you'll need to apply directly to Middlesex using our Online Applicant Portal .
When you create an Applicant Portal account, you can submit your application and track its progress.
You can also upload your supporting documents, portfolio or show-reel and make subsequent applications.
Start your part-time application .
To transfer into a part-time course in year two or three from another university, you also need to create an account for our Online Applicant Portal .
We ask for a combination of entry requirements that usually include a specific qualification, subject or grade that are relevant to the course that you're applying for.
You need to apply direct to Middlesex through our Online Applicant Portal for any full-time Foundation (FdA) course .
We might be able to recognise your work experience or previous learning as part of our entry requirements and even award it towards your degree.
Find out more about what previous learning is eligible and how to claim.
We welcome your application to study with us as a mature student.
You are considered mature if you are over the age of 21 and you didn't go to university after school or college.
We will consider your application on an individual basis and we may also invite you to an interview to get to know more about you.
To take a year out, apply through UCAS to start your course after a year or defer your existing offer through UCAS to the next start date.
Exceptions to this are:
Download our Admissions Policy (PDF)
Get help and advice for your application including information on visas and immigration.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/choose-middlesex:
Take the next step in your career with a postgraduate degree from Middlesex – a top 6 UK University (THE Young Universities 2024).
We are 1st in the UK for Employability (Uni Compare Rankings 2026).
We offer work placements, live projects, accreditations, and lifetime career support to give you the skills and experience to take the next step in your career.
We are a top-10 UK university for industry connections and funding (Uni Compare, 2025).
We offer a range of financial support, including our Postgraduate Financial Support Pack.
You can also apply for a postgraduate loan worth up to £12,471, to make our courses accessible to aspiring students.
We are ranked 1st in the UK for overall satisfaction of part-time postgraduate students (PTES, 2024).
We offer blended and online study options, with dedicated days on campus, to help you balance study, work, and life, including several courses starting in January to give you added flexibility.
We also provide work opportunities and paid placements while you study through Unitemps.
Benefit from our award-winning employability service, providing career support for life
Experience state-of-the-art labs and equipment with £200 million invested in campus facilities
Learn from educators with lived experience who are passionate about making a real difference
Join us on Tuesday, 9 September, to explore your postgraduate options, or take a campus tour available every other Wednesday to experience our world-class facilities firsthand.
"When I came to see Middlesex University the people I spoke to inspired me.
The education was a good balance between practical examples and inspirational teaching"
Danishi Bagadia, Head of Media Governance, Operations and Performance Marketing at Google and Middlesex Alumni, Marketing Management MA
Being completely honest, I wasn't the most academically gifted.
I was a bit daunted when I was asked to go back into education after a year of of being out of it, but what I found was, doing the Master's degree is not as intimidating as what it sounded to me at the beginning.
It went at a pace that I was a lot more comfortable with.
A Master's degree was important for me because it's important to have something that kind of diversifies your CV and gives you something to stand out.
I had some really good people that worked in the industry, in my cohort, but also the lecturer's work that were guiding us at the time, people that worked as actual practitioners in the field, whether it be in football or otherwise.
And a lot of the people that I did my Master's degree with all went on to do, quite well and get full time employment in the sport, sort of their choice.
Why Middlesex University - The reason why I chose to go to Middlesex was because of, I think the main deciding factor was because of financial support.
Middlesex University offered me an EU scholarship.
My biggest accomplishment while studying at Middlesex was honestly my final project in general.
I was super proud of it worked hard for it as well, which then later helped me to get a job.
I like that the university is based in North London.
We also left North West a few times to go to the Design Museum, or we had our semester show at a gallery in East London.
Middlesex University London Campus.
Middlesex location in London campus is amazing.
London is a global financial market, and my Master’s in Investment and Finance made this, an ideal location.
It's very international, so it gave me the opportunity of, meeting people from all around the world, knowing about different cultures and just engaging with so many different people.
The MDX works team, which guided me and guides students to find jobs, prepare for interviews, CV prep as well.
It's very important.
I can say specifically that one of my professors served as a mentor in my job hunting process, giving me some tips that were essential, in me landing the role I'm in today.
I worked as a fixed income specialist at Bloomberg, and one advice he gave me was try to set your foot in the door first.
I've been able to find a full time job there, and definitely his guidance and his support was very important.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/open-days/pg-open-events/postgraduate-virtual-open-evening:
Live: Wednesday 25 June, 3.00 - 6.30pm BST
At Middlesex, we bring the world of work, research and education together to create postgraduate courses that put you ahead of the competition and prepare you for the future.
Ask questions and chat live with academics and students
Watch live talks about your subject and student life at MDX
Get personal advice from our Admissions team and support team
Live chat with support staff
View event programme
Join live subject talks hosted by academics.
Find out more about your course and get your questions answered in our live talk and Q&A sessions.
Hear from our support staff, current students and alumni in our general talks, covering subjects such as student finance, careers and international student advice.
I'm Ellen Buck, the Pro Vice-Chancellor for Education and Student Experience here at Middlesex University.
I am delighted you're here to explore what we offer at Middlesex, whether you're looking to deepen your knowledge, advance your career or simply to see if this place feels right for you.
Today is all about giving you the information you need.
Why choose Middlesex for Postgraduate study?
Postgraduate study is a big step.
It's a real investment in yourself and your future.
At Middlesex we're committed to making sure that that investment has meaning and impact.
We offer a wide range of disciplines, all underpinned by active research and knowledge exchange that makes a real difference to our students and to our communities.
We're not just here to pass on knowledge.
We're here to connect you to ideas, people and opportunities that support your ambitions.
Middlesex is much more than just a university located in North London.
We're deeply connected to this community.
We see ourselves as an anchor institution playing an important role in local life and building strong relationships with industries, professions and organizations around us.
These connections create opportunities for our students, whether that's through placements, projects or networking with local employers and global companies alike.
Being in North London means you'll have access to the culture and opportunities of Central London whilst still enjoying a friendly, diverse community that feels like home.
A community that reflects our values.
One of the things that really makes Middlesex special is our community.
People are drawn to study and work here because of our values, our commitment to inclusivity, collaboration and curiosity.
We're proud to welcome students from over 160 different nationalities, creating a vibrant environment where diverse perspectives are valued and people feel they belong.
In a world that can sometimes feel divided, I think that's one of our greatest strengths.
Here, you'll be part of a community that's supportive, globally connected and always open to new ideas.
Career-ready learning and hands-on experience.
We want to make sure that your experience at Middlesex is more than just academic.
Our programs are structured to combine deep learning with practical experience and so you'll have the skills and confidence to go straight into your field and make an impact.
We've invested over 200 million pounds in our facilities, from advanced healthcare simulation labs to creative studios, tech-enabled learning spaces.
You'll be working with the kinds of tools and technologies used in industry, giving you a real advantage.
And because we know the world of work is constantly changing, we've developed a set of graduate competencies to make sure you're prepared for whatever the future holds.
These skills shaped with input from companies like PWC, Google, Warner Media are designed to help you adapt and thrive wherever your path takes you.
Support as a partnership.
At Middlesex, we see your time here as a partnership.
We're here to support you every step of the way with resources tailored for postgraduate students.
Our award-winning employability team is ready to help you build your CV, connect with placements and prepare for interviews.
You'll also have dedicated academic support, access to peer networks and a team that's here for any personal guidance you might need.
And beyond graduation, you'll be part of the MDX Works network, connecting you with alumni, mentors and opportunities as you move forward.
Many of our graduates tell us that their time here was truly transformative, not just academically but personally and professionally too.
Explore Middlesex for yourself.
Today is a chance to get a feel for what we're all about, so make the most of it.
Watch the sessions, jump into chat rooms, connect with our academics, students and admissions and support services.
Ask any questions you have, big or small, and see if Middlesex feels like a place where you'd like to belong.
Thank you again for joining us.
We're here to help you make the right choice for your future.
Welcome to a community that values curiosity, connection and possibility.
We look forward to supporting you in the next chapter of your journey.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/entry-requirements-for-postgraduates:
Check your eligibility for study.
We set general entry requirements to ensure that students' qualifications and experience are the right level to study on our courses.
We also have course-specific entry requirements.
Before you start your application, make sure your previous degree or work experience matches what we need.
If you've already been working or have other learning experience relevant to your chosen course then we can count these towards your entry requirements and some modules when you begin your studies.
Find out more about how we recognise previous learning.
Get in touch to check requirements for your course.
Online chat
We usually ask for a second-class honours degree 2:2 or above, or equivalent, in a subject that is relevant to what you want to study.
You must also check for course-specific entry requirements

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/postgraduate-finance:
Check the cost of your postgraduate study and get the right financial support
Qualification
Credit points
PGCert
60 credit points based on 60 taught credits
PGDip
120 credit points based on 120 taught credits
Masters
180 credit points based on 120 taught credits plus 60 dissertation credits
You can choose to pay your fees in full at the start of your first term, in two, three or six instalments throughout the year or with a loan.
We'll send more information about your options with your offer.
Make sure you understand our our financial terms and conditions (PDF) when you accept an offer with us.
Contact our student finance team
Call +44 (0)20 8411 6400
Visit Student Finance England for helpful guides, fact sheets and films.
We've made it simple for you to understand the cost of your degree, ways to pay and information about your deposit.
You could be entitled for a loan from Student Finance of up to £12,167 for taught and research master's courses.
This is a non means-tested loan to help cover your fees, other course costs and living costs.
We offer a range of scholarships and bursaries to recognise your academic achievement and potential.
Unlike a loan, you don't have to pay them back.
Your employer can contribute towards the cost of your postgraduate study as part of their staff development programme.
If this is the case, please ask your employer to supply a letter (on formal letter-headed paper) detailing their contribution towards your fees.
You can borrow a doctoral loan of up to £28,673 from Student Finance England for 2023-24 study.
All of the money is paid directly to your bank account.
You can use it for PhD fees, research expenses, maintenance or other costs.
Doctoral loans aren't based on household income or means tested, so the amount you can borrow isn't affected by your income or savings.
This amount you decide to borrow will then be spread evenly across your PhD, in three instalments per academic year.
If you wish to leave a course before completing it, notify Unihelp of your intentions as soon as possible.
How much of the annual tuition fees you will have to continue to pay is determined by where you are in the academic year when you withdraw.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/apply-for-taught-courses:
Apply for your postgraduate taught course through our Online Applicant Portal .
Create an Applicant Portal account to submit your application directly to us and track its progress.
You can also apply through Department for Education’s Teacher Training website for:
Get a feel for life at Middlesex at our next Postgraduate Open Evening on Tuesday, 9 September 2025.
Are you an aspiring postgraduate student looking to specialise in your chosen field, giving your career a boost or even changing career?
Well, a postgraduate degree from Middlesex University will give you the skills, knowledge and experience you need to stand out in a competitive market.
My name is Max and I'm an African engagement advisor and I'm here to help you apply.
Make sure you check the entry requirements on the course page thoroughly.
You can find this on our website and before you make your application, make sure you have all of the relevant documents to hand and this will make the process much quicker.
Different courses have different criteria so make sure to check.
They can include images of transcripts or scanned documents.
These must be submitted to the applicant portal or via email.
We need a reference to help process your application so when supplying a name please check they are happy to be a referee.
Remember to use the referee's official institutional or employment email as these are easier for the admissions team to verify once we make you an offer.
Check their contact details are up to date and correct as the inclusion of wrong details can delay the application process.
Make it as easy as possible for your referees by giving them a bit of direction and explaining to them what course you're applying for and why you're interested in it.
We also require a personal statement from you so take some time to prepare one.
Tell us about your experience as well as your interest in your chosen subject area.
Tell us why you would be a great candidate for the course and tell us more about your future career aspirations and don't forget we've got plenty more great personal statement tips available to you on our website.
Now that you've got all your information to hand and meet the entry requirements, the application process will be quick and easy.
Visit the course page and click apply now as this will take you to our applicant portal or UCAS for MA social work where you can start your application.
We've got a few tips as well so help us give you a quick response.
A complete application will enable us to give you a decision.
promptly, as applying without all the required documents will cause delay.
Feel free to contact us if you have questions or need support with your application steps, we have a get in touch page on our website.
Here at Middlesex University, we've tried to make the application process as quick and painless as possible, with support and guidance available to you at all times.
While there's no hard deadline for postgraduate applications, we recommend applying and accepting your offer as soon as possible to secure your place on the course.
If you need help with fees and funding, then don't forget you can apply for a postgraduate loan, and we have many scholarships, bursaries and funding options available to you.
And if you'd like to speak to us in person, we have the drop -in centre here on campus in London, so pop in and say hello.
And finally, best of luck with your application and we can't wait to see you here for your postgraduate studies here at Middlesex University.
Thanks for watching!
We recommend applying as early as possible for your chosen postgraduate course to ensure you are granted a place.
Remember, you can submit your application before you receive your final qualification score.
The video contains a step-by-step guide to support you through the postgraduate taught application process, and help you to complete your application.
You must provide copies of all your academic documentation including transcripts and certificates.
These should either be copies of the originals on letter headed paper or with a stamp by the awarding body or institution.
If it's applicable to your application, you will also need to provide references on letter headed paper.
If you're a current Middlesex student, you don't need to submit transcripts or references.
Pay attention to the contact details you give in your application.
If you're likely to change postal or email address before starting your course then give your most permanent contact details.
We send all our admissions communications via email so it's vital that this information is as accurate as possible.
We also advise adding our email address to your inbox safe list.
Your personal statement tells us more about your experience and your interest in your subject.
Follow our guide for tips and examples on how to write a personal statement that stands out.
Apply early: Secure your spot and increase your chances for scholarships by applying early.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/stay-for-pg:
Master the future you want by staying at Middlesex University for your postgraduate studies with 95% of postgraduates in further work or study (HESA, 2022).
Meet Celina, Nouf, and Jennifer – our postgraduate alumni who have used their postgraduate degrees to open new opportunities in their careers.
From gaining a competitive edge to exploring uncharted career paths, their stories are a testament to the power of a Middlesex postgraduate degree.
Hi, my name is Naf.
My name is Jennifer.
I'm Selena.
And I'll tell you why I chose Middlesex University for my postgraduate degree.
The applying process was very easy and especially seeing that I'm coming in as an international student.
This MA is a distant learning course, meaning it's flexible and I can have my own schedule to fit my lifestyle.
They help me out with finding a place to stay, help me with my financial issues.
I've always, always wanted to come to Middlesex University.
On my course, there's a placement module.
It supports me with real life experiences and also helps me with career opportunities in the future.
I'm studying marketing, which is a growing industry, and Middlesex University has an extraordinary programme where it allows me to experience everything firsthand and allow me to understand what it's like to be in a director position.
I wasn't sure exactly what I wanted to do with my career after my BA, so I thought, let me get out of my comfort zone.
Let me go for opportunities and experiences that I've never done.
I love London.
All these incredible museums and galleries that are free.
You can literally travel the world just by hopping on a bus in London.
It's just your playground.
One of the greatest things that my lecturers were able to provide was a one -on -one experience.
This allowed me to get a better understanding on what kind of direction I needed and giving me a hands -on experience.
I got diagnosed with dyslexia in my second year in Middlesex University, so I got provided a one -to -one tutor, and this gave me confidence that anyone can do a postgraduate degree.
The feedback and critique that you get from your peers, from your fellow students, from the technicians, as well as your tutors and lecturers is vital, and they really pushed you to kind of develop and refine your work.
My future is in good hands and my decision in coming to this university was the right one to make.
If you're dedicated, motivated and organised, you can do anything that you put your mind to.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/postgraduate-offer-holders:
Congratulations on receiving your offer to join Middlesex University.
We're excited to welcome you to our postgraduate community.
As a postgraduate student at Middlesex University, you'll embark on a journey of growth, learning, and career shaping in a dynamic and supportive environment.
We believe your learning spaces are as important as the knowledge you gain, which is why we’ve invested £200 million in state-of-the-art facilities.
Our relaxed, safe, and sustainable north London campus provides everything you need to excel in your studies and beyond.
With unique spaces designed for focused research and collaborative socialising, you can immerse yourself in your work or connect with peers over coffee at MDX House.
Plus, our close proximity to central London puts you at the heart of a vibrant professional and cultural hub to master your future.
Follow the steps below to ensure a smooth transition into your postgraduate studies.
Welcome to Middlesex University.
Today we're going to show you a little bit about what it's like to study here to help you decide if it's the right place for you.
We're a global uni that's working towards a healthier, happier and a more sustainable world for everyone.
We take action as a community and find solutions to create the world we want to see.
Courses at Middlesex are relevant and up to date because they're taught by academics who are working professionally or doing innovative research.
A lot of learning takes place outside of the lecture hall so you actually get to learn things in a practical way.
Courses are really focused on getting your job.
There's loads of opportunities to do placements and get work experience that looks amazing on your CV.
You can get personal career support to work out where you want to go or even help you start your own business.
There's loads of student entrepreneurs here.
If you're feeling like coming to uni is a big step, then don't worry.
There's plenty of ways to get help and support for your studies like from academics or other students.
There's also services in place to help with things like mental health and finances.
For example, you can get free counselling and also have access to wellbeing apps.
So maybe you're asking yourself, where is Middlesex?
The campus is in Hendon, a really nice area of north London.
We're 15 minutes by tube to Camden and 30 minutes to central London.
Transport links means that many students commute to uni while living at home.
There's also plenty of accommodation to choose from and places to rent near campus too.
We are a really welcoming community where you can be yourself and find your place.
Whatever you're into, the Student Union have a club or society just for you.
Middlesex is also one of the most international universities in the world.
There are people from 160 different nationalities here.
Plus we have other campuses across the world like in Dubai and Mauritius.
That's just an intro of what it's like to study here.
Want to know more?
Chat to more students like us on uni buddy and get your questions answered.
We hope to see you at Middlesex someday.
There is so much to look forward to and we’re excited to help you get ready for your journey at Middlesex.
Here are your next steps to mastering a future that’s yours at Middlesex.
To secure your place, you need to accept your offer through our Online Applicant Portal .
Make sure you take advantage of our range of financial support to help you with your studies.
For more information, visit our Fees and Funding page .
We offer a range of postgraduate accommodation options.
Apply as early as possible to secure your preferred choice.
Visit our Accommodation Page for details on how to apply.
You'll receive an email with instructions on how to enrol online.
This process includes:
Join us this August, for an inclusive set of activities that reflect the culture and values of Middlesex.
Find out more about our Ready for Anything programme.
Your success and wellbeing are our top priorities at Middlesex.
We offer an extensive range of support services, from mental health resources and financial aid to disability accommodations and employability assistance.
You'll benefit from personalized guidance through guaranteed 1-to-1 sessions with your academic tutor and award-winning support from our student learning assistants.
We're here to ensure you have the tools and support you need to achieve your goals and celebrate your success.
Join a community that is committed to your academic excellence and personal growth.
Choose Middlesex University for a postgraduate experience that prepares you for a successful future.
If you have any questions or need assistance at any step, don't hesitate to reach out.
Call us
We look forward to welcoming you to Middlesex University.
We’re so excited to welcome you to our vibrant community.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/postgraduate-distance-learning-courses:
Whether you're working full time, unable to attend the Middlesex campus regularly, or based overseas, our distance learning courses enable you to study in your own time, at home or from wherever you choose.
Explore the complete list and details of courses we have to offer through distance learning.
Choose your course, fill out the form on the course page and our admissions team will be in touch.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/get-in-touch/chat-to-us-now:
If you have questions about applying to Middlesex University, the application process, our courses, accommodation or anything else then our friendly Admissions Enquiries Advisers are here to help
If you have questions about Middlesex University, the application process, our courses, accommodation or anything else then our friendly admissions enquiries advisers are here to help.
You can chat to one of our advisers right now by typing your question into the box below.
You will be asked to complete a short registration form as part of the process, so if you have a UCAS ID number or Middlesex University student ID number it would be useful to have these to hand.
Once you have submitted your question you should see when our adviser starts typing a response.
If we accidentally get cut off, simply log back in and start the chat up where you left off!
We will answer your questions as soon as we can, but you might have to wait a few minutes for a response at busy times.
Unfortunately there may be times when our advisers are busy or unavailable, and we apologise for this.
We aim to be available during the following times (except for Bank Holidays and Easter and Christmas Vacation times):
When we aren’t available on live chat, our chatbot MDXpert will answer your questions.
Alternatively you can call us on +44 (0)20 8411 5555 or fill in our contact form .
By giving us your details we can access information about your application quickly.
We use your email address to keep in contact with you about your enquiry or application.
Feel free to come back and start another chat whenever you have a query.
Your next steps

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/get-in-touch/international-offices:
We’re one of the first universities to establish a network of international offices around the world so you get the tailored support you need.
With 46 staff working in 16 offices across the world our team will be able to:
Tel: +44 (0) 208 411 6400/ +1 917 348 3043
Schedule a call with our regional manager.
Email: americas@mdx.ac.uk
Asia Pacific Regional Hub – Hong Kong Unit D,  28th Floor, CNT Tower, 338 Hennessy Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong
Tel: +852 2503 0111 Fax: +852 2503 0525 Email: admissionhk@mdxu.org
Room 1404, Kun Yang International Square No.
798 Zhao Jia Bang Road Shanghai, 200030 PR CHINA
上海市肇嘉浜路 798 号坤阳国际广场 1404 室 200030
Tel: +86-21-6448 0038 Wechat: MiddlesexSH Email: shanghai@mdxu.org
Room 1906, East Ocean Centre 24A Jian Guo Men Wai Street Chaoyang District Beijing, 100004 PR CHINA
北京市朝阳区建国门外大街甲 24 号东海中心 1906 室 100004
Tel: +86-10-6515 6179 Wechat: MiddlesexBeijing Email: beijing@mdxu.org
D403 Tianjun Building No3001 Dongmen South Road Luohu District, Shenzhen City Guangdong Province P.R.China
WeChat/ Tel: +86 186 7666 0575 Email: shenzhen@mdxu.org
B-09-23A Empire SOHO Empire Subang Jalan SS16/1 47500 Subang Jaya Malaysia
Tel: +603 5631 1588 or +601 7293 1588 (Monday - Friday, 10am-6pm) Email: admissionsea@mdxu.org
Email: EU-enquiries@mdx.ac.uk
Office 307, The Business Centre Khalid Bin Waleed Road PO Box 111075 Dubai, UAE
Tel: +971 4 396 6617 Email: middle-east@mdx.ac.uk
South Asia Regional Office - New Delhi Flat No.
714, 7th Floor, Ashoka Estate 24, Barakhamba Road New Delhi, Delhi | 110001 | India
Mobile: +91 93112 35511 and +91 80762 62114 Email: delhi@mdx.ac.uk
No 1, 2nd Floor, Salzburg Square 107, Harrington Road, Chetpet Chennai, 600 031 India
Tel: (044) 2836 2965 or 2836 2975 or +91 9791700855 Email: chennai@mdx.ac.uk
Westlands Square offices, 4th Floor Ring Road – Waiyaki Way JunctionWestlands PO Box 103132-00101 Nairobi Kenya
Tel: +254 20 215 3497 Mobile: +254 710 450 118 or +254 736 080 133 Email: kenya@mdx.ac.uk
1st Floor, Silverbird Galleria, Plot 133, Ahmadu Bello Way, Victoria Island, Lagos Nigeria
Tel: +234 806 237 2058 or +234 812 666 9299 or +234 812 666 9985 Email: nigeria@mdx.ac.uk
Africa - Nigeria Office (Abuja)
The Octagon, 5 Kokoma Close, off Buchanan Crescent, Wuse 2 Abuja Nigeria
Tel: +2347062002505 or +2347049926464
Email: nigeria@mdx.ac.uk
Middlesex University Mauritius Coastal Road Uniciti, Flic-en-Flac Mauritius
Tel: +230 403 6400 Fax: +230 425 5330 Email: recruitment@mdx.ac.mu
"My favourite things about studying at Middlesex are the support we get and the kindness of every person that helps us"
Victoria, France
LLB French and English Law.
More information

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/llm-advanced-legal-practice-sqe-pathway-:
The LLM Legal Practice (SQE Pathway) programme aims to provide you the opportunity to qualify as a solicitor of England and Wales, enabling you to prepare for the mandatory Solicitors’ Qualifying Examinations (SQE)
Combining global academic practice and online learning, our expert teaching staff will help you qualify as a solicitor in England and Wales and gain academic and legal practice research skills.
This unique course will provide you with an international perspective on the field of law.
The course is best suited to you if you are one of the following:
The LLM Advanced Legal Practice (SQE Pathway) offers you the opportunity to qualify as a solicitor in England and Wales, enabling you to prepare for the mandatory Solicitors’ Qualifying Examinations (SQE).
You'll have the chance to address complex issues systematically and creatively, showing originality in tackling and solving legal problems through the use of complex multiple-choice question self-assessments throughout the course.
This course is delivered in collaboration with The College of Legal Practice , a fully accredited higher education provider, and wholly-owned UK subsidiary of The College of Law in Australia.
Some of the many benefits of joining us on this course include the opportunity to:
50% of our students come from outside of the UK
UK University for employability (UniCompare Rankings 2025)
UK university in Times Higher Education Young University Rankings 2024
The LLM Advanced Legal Practice (SQE Pathway) will ensure that you are equipped with outstanding knowledge and skills—in line with a postgraduate degree in law, as well as what is required in legal practice.
One of the main objectives of this course is to prepare you for the Solicitors Qualifying Examinations in order to qualify as solicitors in England and Wales.
To do this, we've partnered with The College of Legal Practice, who have expertise in guiding you through the specific modules preparing you for this examination.
Visit the College of Legal Practice site .
You'll study a blend of compulsory academic modules covering essential legal expertise and skills, such as dispute resolution, business, property and criminal law, and wills and administration of estates.
You'll also study modules that will boost your legal research skills in preparation for the SQE, as well as modules focused on applying your academic knowledge to a professional legal environment.
Here is a brief overview of what you will study each year
This module aims to develop your competency in the skills required for the second Solicitors Qualification Examination (SQE2).
The module focuses specifically on the skills of advocacy, interviewing, attendance note taking, case and matter analysis, drafting, research and writing, in the specific areas of criminal litigation, dispute resolution, property practice, wills and intestacy, probate administration and practice, business law and practice.
The module focuses on developing technical and practical proficiency in the skills, in the context of specified practice areas, through innovative learning methods.
This module equips you with the essential research skills necessary to complete modules successfully, including the technical and conventional systems governing academic writing and the principles and practice followed in legal reasoning.
This module is assessed through three elements: a citation assignment; a written case note/discussion; and a literature review.
This module aims to develop your Functioning Legal Knowledge in the context of the Solicitors Qualifying Examination (SQE1).
The module specifically aims to develop your competency in the law and rules of ethics across the areas of Business Law & Practice, Dispute Resolution (with contract and tort), Public & EU Law, Legal Services & Legal Systems, Property Practice (with land law), Criminal Law & Practice, and Wills and Administration of Estates (with trusts and solicitors accounts).
The module allows you to apply theoretical knowledge and research skills in a real-world setting, either in your current workplace or an internship.
You’ll take responsibility for your own learning by setting clear goals, making informed decisions about your progress, and reflecting on your development.
By actively participating in the assessment process, you’ll strengthen your ability to adapt, self-assess, and engage in meaningful, long-term professional growth.
Gain the knowledge necessary to deal with contemporary and emerging challenges in the practise and management of transnational commercial disputes with a focus on the increasing use of arbitration for expediency and cost savings by medium and large-scale enterprises operating in multiple jurisdictions.
This module equips you with critical understanding of the major theories concerning the nature of corporations, their role and function in society, the concerns surrounding corporate governance and corporate responsibility, and the laws and practices governing directorial conduct and company operation in selected countries.
In this module, you’ll explore key theories about the nature of corporations and their role in society, along with major issues in corporate governance and corporate responsibility.
You’ll examine the laws and practices that guide directors and company operations in selected countries, and consider the roles and relationships between key players, such as directors, shareholders, and employees and the evidence for the convergence of corporate governance practices.
Finally, you will explore the various factors which may impact on the convergence of these practices.
In this module, you’ll gain a deep understanding of how technology is transforming legal practice and dispute resolution.
You will acquire an understanding of how technology is supporting legal practice and will explore the latest tools for online dispute resolution, and the application of technology in dispute resolution.
You will engage in critical analysis of how these technological advancements contribute to the efficiency, transparency, and accessibility of the justice system, preparing for a future where technology and law increasingly intersect.
This module aims to provide an understanding of the way in which employment relationships are regulated in the UAE, through an analysis of the basic elements of the UAE Labour Law and the DIFC Employment Law, which respectively govern employment relationships in the UAE and the DIFC free zone that operates in Dubai.
The module assesses the practical applications of the employment contract on the employment relationship and the practical impact of statutory rights.
It also provides an understanding of the manner in which the employment relationship is formed and varied and creates awareness of how the law affects workplace rules and procedures relating to employment protection.
The module encourages a critical approach to legal regulation and focuses on the unique double-jurisdictional context of Dubai allowing students to evaluate and undertake a comparison of two employment law structures that co-exist in Dubai.
This module will give you a comprehensive understanding of international commercial maritime law, covering two main areas: the carriage of goods by sea and the laws governing maritime casualties, such as collisions, oil pollution, salvage, and general average.
You’ll deepen your knowledge of the carriage of goods by sea and international trade, while developing your ability to apply legal and interdisciplinary knowledge.
To find out more about this course, please download the LLM Advanced Legal Practice (SQE Pathway) (PDF) .
Sign up now to receive more information about studying at Middlesex University London.
You'll be taught by an experienced teaching team with a wide range of expertise and professional experience.
This course is taught via blended teaching and learning methods, meaning that some of the modules will be delivered on campus.
This is to ensure you get the most out of face-to-face learning, access to campus facilities and support to strengthen the sense of belonging and community at the heart of learning.
Other modules are taught online through the College of Legal Practice’s virtual learning platform, Canvas.
Canvas is one of the most highly regarded and widely used learning management systems in the world, providing a high-quality, interactive learning experience.
Canvas also facilitates frequent personal interaction between you and your supervisors.
You'll be based at our Hendon campus, north London.
In a typical week, you’ll have a mix of on-campus and online learning, with scheduled teaching hours depending on your mode of study.
Approximate hours:
Each week, you’ll also spend time learning independently through reading, research, projects and preparing for assessments (approximate hours):
If your course includes a placement or work-based learning, you’ll gain hands-on experience over a set number of hours during your placement period:
We have a strong support network online and on campus to help you develop your academic skills.
We offer one-to-one and group sessions to develop your learning skills together with academic support from our library, IT teams and learning experts.
The course will be assessed through a combination of exams and coursework, including either a legal practice research project or a work-based learning project.
Each module will have its own formative and summative assessments.
What you need to keep in mind is that although this LLM is preparing you to sit and pass the SQE 1 & SQE 2, the assessments for the relevant modules (Solicitors Legal Knowledge and Solicitors Legal Skills) will train you up for those exams but are not the SQE qualifying exams.
In other words, if you pass these assessments, 50% or above, that is an indication that you will pass the external SQE assessments.
During each of these two compulsory modules, you will be formatively assessed on a regular basis online using MCQs.
For clarity, the Solicitors Legal Knowledge module is preparing you for the SQE 1.
The LLM summative assessment takes place around mid-December.
If you pass that and it is advised by your tutors, you may then sit the SQE 1 exam in January and be on your way to qualifying as a solicitor.
Or you may wait until the Summer, or even wait for a few more years before sitting the SQE.
If you fail the summative assessment in mid-December, you can resit it in mid-June the following year.
Solicitors Legal Skills is preparing you for the SQE 2.
The LLM summative is on the week commencing in late-March or early-April.
If you pass that and it is advised by your tutors, you may then sit the SQE 2 exams at the end of April and start of May.
Or you can wait to sit the SQE 2 at the next assessment period in July.
For the other compulsory module, Legal Research Skills, there will be three formative assessments to prepare you for the three summative assessments which are: an OSCOLA (referencing) assessment in the last week in October, a case note the week commencing at the beginning of December, and finally, a literature review the week commencing in January.
As mentioned above, for the other optional modules, you should consult the module handbooks for each of these modules.
You'll evaluate your work, skills and knowledge and identify areas for improvement.
Sometimes you'll work in groups and assess each other's progress.
Each term, you'll get regular feedback on your learning.
Our north London campus is just 20 minutes from central London, giving you easy access to everything this vibrant city has to offer.
Make the most of incredible professional opportunities, cultural experiences, and more affordable living, all within a supportive and close-knit campus community.
Our Sheppard Library has over 1000 study areas and 600 computer spaces
We offer lots of support to help you while you're studying including financial advice, wellbeing, mental health, and disability support.
We'll support you if you have additional needs such as sensory impairment or dyslexia.
And if you want to find out whether Middlesex is the right place for you before you apply, get in touch with our Disability and Dyslexia team .
Our specialist teams will support your mental health.
We have free individual counselling sessions, workshops, support groups and useful guides.
Our Middlesex Unitemps branch will help you find work that fits around uni and your other commitments.
Visit the Middlesex Unitemps page.
The LLM Advanced Legal Practice (SQE Pathway) is designed to boost your employability and help you take the next step in your legal career.
The SQE-focused modules are tailored to prepare you for the Solicitors Qualifying Examination (SQE), which is essential if you want to work in a law firm and qualify as a solicitor in England and Wales.
With this degree, you’ll be able to explore a wide range of legal career paths, including:
Our employability service , MDXworks will launch you into the world of work from the beginning of your course, with placements, projects and networking opportunities through our 1000+ links with industry and big-name employers in London and globally.
Our dedicated lifetime career support, like our business start-up support programme and funding for entrepreneurs, has been recognized with the following awards:
The Law Employability advisor is Lisa Rajapaksa .
Our London location helps us connect with over 1,000 industry partners to develop our students’ future employment prospects.
And we have unique work and study opportunities at our campuses in Dubai and Mauritius.
At Middlesex, you’ll study with students from 122 countries who’ll hopefully become part of your global network.
After you graduate, we'll support you through our alumni network to help you progress in your chosen career.
Placements and internships can greatly improve your future job prospects after you graduate.
They usually boost your confidence and academic results by giving you the opportunity to practice what have learned in a professional setting.
Our specialist employability service will help you find placement opportunities.
As part of the course, in the summer term, there is an option to gain credits in the Work Integrated Learning module (60 credits) which is available to eligible students only.
At Middlesex, we're proud of how we recognise the potential of future students like you.
We make fair and aspirational offers because we want you to aim high, and we’ll support you all the way.
We’ll always be as flexible as possible and take into consideration any barriers you may have faced in your learning.
And, if you don’t quite get the grades you hoped for, we’ll also look at more than your qualifications.
Things like your work experience, other achievements and your personal statement.
For this course, ideally, we are looking for these qualifications:
If you have relevant qualifications or work experience , we may be able to count this towards your entry requirements.
Graduates in related disciplines, with law minors or with relevant professional experience or qualifications may be admitted subject to the course leader's discretion.
We welcome students from the UK and all over the world.
Join students from over 122 countries and discover why so many international students call our campus home:
We accept a wide range of international qualifications.
Find out more about the accepted qualifications on your country's support page.
If you are unsure of the suitability of your qualifications or would like help with your application, please contact your nearest international office .
You will need to meet our English language requirements.
And, don’t worry If you don't meet our minimum English language requirements, as we offer a Pre-sessional English course.
To study with us in the UK, you might need a Student visa .
Please check to see if this applies to you.
Apply as early as possible to make sure you get a place.
You can submit your application before you receive your final qualification.
Make sure that you highlight your best qualities in your personal statement that are relevant to this course.
Such as your ability to be forward-thinking, creative and collaborative.
You won’t be required to attend an interview.
Find out how to apply for postgraduate taught courses and watch our step-by-step video.
Admissions questions?
Ask us a question now via the live chat icon on the screen.
The fees below refer to the 2025/26 academic year unless otherwise stated.
Full-time students: £15,300
Full-time students: £19,900
We cover your costs for the day-to-day things that you need to do well in your studies.
Please note : the course does not cover the cost of the external SQE qualifying exams.
The SRA set these fees.
Visit the SRA website .
We offer lots of support to help you with fees and living costs.
Find out more about postgraduate funding .
And check out our guide to student life on a budget .
You may be eligible for one of our scholarships including:
For international students, we also have a limited number of other awards specific to certain regions, and work in partnership with funding providers in your country to help support you financially with your study.
Find out more about our postgraduate scholarships .
Help from your employer
UK fees: The university reserves the right to increase postgraduate tuition fees in line with changes to legislation, regulation and any government guidance or decisions.
The tuition fees for part-time UK study are subject to annual review and we reserve the right to increase the fees each academic year by no more than the level of inflation.
International fees: Tuition fees are subject to annual review and we reserve the right to increase the fees each academic year by no more than the level of inflation.
Any annual increase in tuition fees as provided for above will be notified to students at the earliest opportunity in advance of the academic year to which any applicable inflationary rise may apply.
Take your first step to the future you want with our guide to Middlesex
We’ll carefully manage any future changes to courses, or the support and other services available to you, if these are necessary because of things like changes to government health and safety advice, or any changes to the law.
Any decisions will be taken in line with both external advice and the University’s Regulations which include information on this.
Our priority will always be to maintain academic standards and quality so that your learning outcomes are not affected by any adjustments that we may have to make.
At all times we’ll aim to keep you well informed of how we may need to respond to changing circumstances, and about support that we’ll provide to you.
Join us on campus to discover more about our range of courses, and get a feel for life at Middlesex for yourself
The university promotes research and encourages students to participate in research projects
We’ll help you find your new home in London while you study at Middlesex
Find out more about what life is like on Campus

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/3d-animation-for-games-and-film-ba-honours:
Learn the latest in 3D animation, hone your skills using state-of-the-art facilities, and create a standout showreel, on this highly rated course.
The explosion in real-time 3D technology is transforming the games and film industries, and there are now over 2000 games and film studios in the UK!
This brand new course is designed to teach you the most innovative 3D skills in this rapidly growing field.
With some of the best facilities in the country and exceptional ratings by students, this is an excellent time to start your successful career as a 3D artist with Middlesex.
With a focus on real-world production processes, creative problem-solving, and career development, this course equips you with everything you need to pursue your passion and build a successful career in 3D animation for games and film.
Learn from highly skilled, successful 3D game artists, character animation specialists, Virtual Production specialists and internationally published theorists.
Our £80 million purpose-built Grove building houses our exceptional facilities, studios and workshops that are recognised as among the best in the country.
This video contains no audio.
The video is a a showreel of students work from the 3D Animation For Game and Film course.
Learn more about what you will study each year and the modules you will study during your course.
Learn the fundamentals of 3D Animation and CG pipelines for Games and Film.
Find your passion and develop your skills through a series of personal and group projects.
In this module you will use your understanding of visual communication and the fundamental creative skills of the discipline to produce a short animation.
You will consider both the principles of movement in animation and broader aesthetic properties to create an animation which conveys character and meaning.
Throughout the module, you will gain knowledge and understanding of issues of representation in animation.
At the end of the module, you will be able to apply the critical toolkit necessary to understand and articulate how your animated creations can function as representations of a diverse range of human characters, and the social responsibility that this entails.
This module develops your creative capabilities and instincts.
You will be introduced to the foundational principles of visual communication, storytelling and image making; as well as the historical and theoretical context of animation and 3D graphics.
You will also be taught the core tenets of cinematic language, and taught how to use them to convey emotion, tone and narrative.
The overall goal is to hone your communication and critical thinking skills in ways which build towards the development of a completed artistic project.
This module supports your creative development by introducing you to the principles and processes involved in your artistic discipline.
You will learn practical information about the production cycle, as well as industry-standard techniques and software which form the basis of your creative practice.
Along with this technical focus, you will be asked to consider the unique aesthetic properties of each technique by responding to creative briefs.
You will also begin to develop your drawing skills, learning the basics of anatomy, perspective and gesture which will go on to inform your productions.
Building on Techniques and Practices 1, this module continues to develop your skills with a wider array of tools involved in the composition and production of creative images.
We will enhance your visual vocabulary and encourage experimentation in ways which can inform your practice.
There is a focus on generating, compositing, and manipulating images, and you will continue to develop your observational skills and use of real-world reference through ongoing life drawing workshops.
Level up your concept creation skills to develop compelling worlds and characters.
Tell engaging stories through advanced techniques including Motion Capture, 3D Animation and Virtual Production.
Asset Creation provides you with the skills for originating and processing high-quality CG assets suitable for game or film production.
You will engage with the technical and conceptual requirements that distinguish assets made for personal projects from those suitable for professional productions.
You will be taught to apply production skills to your own work within the context of a wider team of practitioners, interacting and exchanging artefacts.
Learn the whole 3D character creation workflow from conception to rendered animation.
This module equips you with the theoretical and practical skills to create a character and analyse, qualify and generate movement of organic animate assets in a CG context.
Motion may be created through various techniques such as manual (traditional keyframe animation), blended (motion editing), synthetic (AI and ML) and procedural (technical animation and simulation).
Throughout this process you will develop an understanding of natural motion through observation and reference as well as study the mechanics of recreating motion using digital tools.
Learn Motion Capture, Virtual Film Production and real-time Lighting and Rendering for games and Film.
You will explore the crossover between CG media and traditional Lens-based media.
It will help you understand the technologies for capturing images and movement from real world and virtual environments.
It will also explore conceptually and practically the techniques for combining CG and Lens based images in a real-time context.
Practice will be grounded in traditional cinematography and film language.
You will be encouraged to engage with the challenges of virtual production through problem solving and troubleshooting exercises.
You will be taught to apply production skills to your own work as well as within a wider team of practitioners, collaborating, interacting, and exchanging artefacts.
Issues around copyright, representation, ownership, licensing, and intellectual property will be discussed and you will need to be explicit about the licensing of your own work as well as properly crediting the work of other practitioners.
You will develop your creative ideation skills through research in visual references and principles, as well as through artistic and technical skills, while responding to a conceptual brief.
Worldbuilding is approached in the storytelling sense of developing a coherent, plausible visual and narrative context to underpin a game, film, animation or VR experience.
Cultural aspects of storytelling will be considered to promote awareness of the wide variety of storytelling traditions and to encourage you to build story worlds which can accommodate a diversity of stories and characters.
You will be introduced to world building in the practical sense too by planning, prototyping, blocking and iterating on the design and production of a complex environment.
Develop and produce an ambitious major project, focusing on your specialist interests as part of a production team.
Develop your personal, industry-ready portfolio with feedback and advice from industry mentors.
You will be learning a wide range of subjects all chosen to make you a better practitioner.
These range from applied creativity to knowledge of cutting-edge technology.
Some of the subjects include:
Implement the animation, story, game level or 3D experience developed in Pre-production
You will undertake and complete an ambitious and expansive personal or group project.
With a focus on autonomy and self-organisation, you will take charge of managing and coordinating your projects, while receiving invaluable guidance and support from tutors and technicians.
Emulating real-world industry scenarios, you will be encouraged to adopt the role of a member of a small, boutique studio or a freelance professional, with teaching staff assuming the dual role of client and supervisor.
By the conclusion of the module, you will have honed your skills to deliver work to a high standard, suited to feature prominently in a personal showreel aimed at seeking and securing employment.
On successful completion of this module, you will be able to:
Create an eye-catching showreel of your personal work for competitions and job applications
This employability module is designed to prepare you with the necessary skills and knowledge to thrive in the professional world.
You will gain insights into effectively presenting their work, understand the significance of networking, and learn how to curate and publish their portfolios online.
Tailored to their specific areas of specialisation such as Character Artist, Environment Artist, Modeller, 3D Animator, Motion Editor, or Motion Capture Technician, you will choose the focus of your portfolio.
Through interactive sessions and tutorials, the module creates an iterative approach to creative practice.
You will have ample opportunities to refine your work to meet industry standards, whether it's enhancing the aesthetic appeal or elevating the technical sophistication of your artefacts.
Furthermore, you will learn the value of peer and expert feedback by actively sharing your work and seeking guidance from industry professionals.
By the end of the module, you will have developed an industry-facing portfolio that showcases your skills and capabilities.
This portfolio, accompanied by the necessary documentation, will prepare you to confidently apply and enter the creative industries.
Study your 3D specialism in depth with small practical technical projects.
This module will help you to discover and critically assess valuable sources of information.
You will cultivate a robust research methodology and enhance your skills for ongoing self-improvement and learning within your field of interest or specialisation (e.g.
Character Artist, Environment Artist Modeller, 3D Animator, Motion Editor, Motion capture technician).
Emphasis will be placed on applying research to tangible outcomes such as tests, experiments, and prototypes directly relevant to your projects.
Additionally, you will actively engage in industry research including keeping abreast of industry developments in your specialist areas.
To find out more about this course, please download the 3D Animation for Games and Film BA course specification (PDF) .
by Javier, 3D animation student
by Andru Mihai Sandu, 3D animation student
by Joana and Darius, 3D animation students
by Edward Holmes, 3D animation student
by 3D animation student
Our innovative teaching methods combine theory, hands-on workshops, and real-world projects.
Guided by expert academics, and industry professionals, you’ll develop practical skills through interactive sessions and collaborative projects.
We'll help you gain essential knowledge, explore new ideas, and develop your creative identity.
You will learn your subject by attending lectures, seminars and practical workshops.
All modules are taught in a hands-on “studio” style with training and instruction in the morning and workshop activities in the afternoon to apply what you’ve been taught immediately to your coursework.
At the end of each studio day, a daily review of what you’ve achieved gives immediate feedback from your supervising tutors – just like the daily reviews used in the industry.
Lectures allow you to gain and develop knowledge in specific subjects.
You can discuss and develop your understanding of topics covered in lectures and practicals in smaller seminar groups.
Seminars and workshops are a great opportunity to discuss what you have learnt with your peers and tutors.
Most seminar groups have about 25-30 students.
For one-to-one support, you will meet with either your personal tutor or module leader.
We will also share our library of online resources.
Your work will be divided into credits.
Each credit is equal to 10 hours of study time.
You will complete 120 credits per year of study, which are broken down into modules of typically 30 credits.
Outside of teaching hours, you’ll learn independently through self-study which will involve reading articles and books, working on projects, undertaking research, and preparing for assessments including coursework and presentations.
Your independent learning is supported by the library and study hub, open access computer labs, and with online materials in MyUniHub.
You will also receive hands on support from technicians, tutors, graduate academic assistants and student learning assistants.
Here is an indication of how you will split your time.
Whether you are studying full or part-time – your course timetable will balance your study commitments on campus with time for work, life commitments and independent study.
We aim to make timetables available to students at least 2 weeks before the start of term.
Some weeks are different due to how we schedule classes and arrange on-campus sessions.
During your first year, your weekly timetable will typically consist of:
Our excellent teaching and support teams will help you develop the skills relevant to your degree from research and practical skills to critical thinking.
Our Sheppard Library is open from 7am to 11pm Monday to Sunday during term time.
And we offer free 24-hour laptop loans with full desktop software, free printing and Wi-Fi to use on or off campus, even over the weekend.
Your knowledge and understanding will be assessed by project based coursework including artistic outcomes, production materials and supporting documentation together with regular presentations of work-in-progress at daily review sessions.
Your skills will be assessed by  monitoring and recording small observable behaviours in workshops and group learning, together with testing practical skills in workshops through small, focussed problem solving tasks.
There will be feedback from industry mentors where suitable, peer evaluation through the exchange of practical work and individual and group critiques of work in progress.
Our facilities are second to none and include:
You can also hire specialised equipment for your assignments and there is a wealth of specialist technical help in our workshops from professionals who are dedicated to helping you achieve excellence.
We accept students with a wide range of qualifications, including combinations of qualifications.
Our most common entry qualifications can be found below:
Our entry requirements page outlines how we make offers.
If you have a qualification such as a foundation degree or HND or have gained credit at another university, you may be able to join us in year two or three.
Find out how you can transfer courses .
Entry onto this course does not require a portfolio.
We welcome applications from mature candidates, including those without formal qualifications if you can demonstrate relevant experience and ability.
Quality teaching with top facilities plus flexible online learning
Welcoming north London campus that's only 30 minutes from central London
Work placements and networking with top London employers
Award-winning career support to get you where you want to go after university.
You will not be required to interview for this course.
Please apply via UCAS using this UCAS code W616.
You won’t be required to attend an interview for this course.
Need help with your application?
Check out our undergraduate application page.
This course will give you a solid foundation in 3D fundamentals and will challenge you to explore a wide range of creative specialisms such as virtual production, concept art, compositing, environment art, 3D animation, motion capture and character art.
You will be prepared for a range of industries which depend on 3D graphics.
The focus on real-time graphics opens up opportunities to become game artists, specialising in characters or environments, as well as enter the TV or film industry as a virtual production practitioner.
Graduates have gone to work in industry leading companies such as Disguise, Target 3D, The Foundry, DNeg, ILM Rockstar Games, BlueZoo and Proof Inc.
Students also have the chance to visit Industry networking Events such as EGX Rezzed and Vertex Conference.
We have strong industry links, with a regular programme of industry guests.
Past visiting lecturers have included:
As an alumni, we offer you lifetime career support so we can help you as your progress.
If you want to start your own company we have the MDXcelerator student start-up support you'll have the chance to pitch your business to gain mentoring and grants of up to £15,000.
Our business start-up support programme and funding for entrepreneurs, has been recognised with the following awards:
Students at Middlesex span 122 countries and you will be part of our thriving global network.
After you graduate, you'll join our Alumni Network .
You will get access to:
Whether you need support with your finances, mental health, or otherwise, we have a dedicated team of staff to help.
We have a team ready to support you to manage studying alongside a disability, offer guidance, financial support, or more.
From our inclusive curriculum, to University-wide projects to prevent discrimination, we are proud to be a welcoming and diverse community.
Studying your course part-time may suit you better personally or financially, and we are here to support you with this option.
The fees below are for the 2025/26 academic year:
Full-time: £9,535*
Part-time: £79 per taught credit
*Depending on the duration of your study, your tuition fees for subsequent academic years may be subject to further inflationary increases (most recently, the UK government has suggested that increases may be linked to the All-Items Retail Prices Index – RPIX) in line with any additional rise in the tuition fee cap set by the UK government.
Any annual increase in tuition fees will be notified to students at the earliest opportunity in advance of the academic year to which any applicable inflationary rise may apply.
As a part of our commitment to an excellent student offer at Middlesex University, we pledge to invest the additional money from tuition fee increases into the student experience, and we are consulting at present on what these improvements will be and will follow up with further details.
Full-time students: £16,600
Part-time students: £138 per taught credit
The following study tools are included in your fees:
To help make uni affordable, we do everything we can to support you including our:
UK fees: The university reserves the right to increase undergraduate tuition fees in line with changes to legislation, regulation and any government guidance or decisions.
Join us to discover more about our range of courses, and get a feel for life at Middlesex for yourself
Find out more about what life is like on campus and discover what student life is all about
We provide a wide range of resources and support to help you to succeed in your studies.
Take your first step towards the future you want with our guide
Sign up to receive the latest information about studying at Middlesex University London.
Our communications are designed to support you in deciding your future and keep you up to date about student finance, employment opportunities and student activities available at Middlesex University.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/accounting-and-finance-ba-honours:
With global demand for skilled accountants, now's the time to join our highly-regarded, expert-led Accounting and Finance degree
Accounting is at the core of every business, and our Accounting and Finance BA Honours course gives you the tools to succeed in this dynamic and rewarding profession.
With over 145 years of expertise, Middlesex prepares you for success in global careers, giving you the tools to thrive in this dynamic and rewarding profession.
We are proud to see many of our graduates securing a range of accounting and finance roles at large organisations, including Centrica, City Bank, Deloitte, John Lewis, PwC and Royal Mail
Enhance your employability prospects through practical learning with software commonly utilised in the workplace, including Xero, OneSource and, in our state-of-the-art Financial Markets Lab
Our degree covers key areas such as financial accounting, management accounting, finance, taxation, and business law.
You may choose the 3-year programme, 3-year programme with work experience, or 4 year programme with year-long work placement.
You will study 6 compulsory modules over two semesters.
These modules are designed to give you a solid grounding in the subject and bring you to a standard level of competence to pursue further study in the subject.
You will also complete a virtual internship with reputable companies (such as KPMG, Goldman Sachs and HSBC) as part of the assessment, plus study towards the Xero Advisor Equivalency Certificate, a widely recognised qualification in the accounting sector.
You will develop data analytical skills by completing problem-based business cases in your assignment
This module introduces you to bookkeeping and financial accounting.
Providing you with knowledge of the techniques and skills required to record transactions by the method known as the “double entry system” and then prepare a set of single company financial statements based on those records.
It will provide you with the knowledge needed to read and interpret financial statements prepared by others, including real company financial statements.
This module evaluates the role of business in societies by exploring contemporary issues and how corporate practices are responding to the increasing demand on non-financial performance.
It introduces corporate responsibility and business ethics as a basis for assessing business behaviour in upholding principles of accountability to stakeholders and professional ethics in the accounting domain.
This module focuses on the economic context within which business decision-making occurs.
It incorporates assessments of the impact of market environment, funding matters, corporate organisation and government policy on the actions of business enterprises.
In addition, it provides you with an appreciation of how economic concepts can help in deepening understanding of these issues.
This module equips you with the basic accounting tools that aid management with its core functions of planning, decision making and control.
Key areas covered are cost classifications for decision making, product costing techniques applicable to different industries, budgeting, short term decision making using cost volume profit analysis, and long-term investment appraisal.
This module introduces you to the significant role accounting information plays in each fundamental business transaction process.
You will learn to analyse and handle information using accounting systems and advanced IT techniques.
This module provides a thorough grounding of the basic statistical methods and computer software for the analysis and presentation of accounting and economic data.
It caters for you with some prior mathematical knowledge, and while students are expected to complete mathematical calculations by hand and using a computer the emphasis is on the interpretation and communication of quantitative results.
You will study 3 compulsory modules and one option module over two semesters.
You will study accounting rules and apply accounting skills, and business law.
There is more emphasis on discussion, critical evaluation, reflection and anticipation of likely future development.
The financial accounting module that you study in year two depends on the grade achieved in year one.
You need to get a grade 10 or above in Financial Accounting to study Advanced Financial Accounting otherwise you will study Applied Financial Accounting.
This module extends your knowledge of the principles and techniques used in financial accounting and corporate reporting.
You will develop the ability to understand and critically analyse key techniques and practices within the framework of statutory financial reporting.
You will also develop your transferable skills, including communication, presentation skills, critical analysis, time management and team working.
Or
The management accounting module that you study in year two depends on the grade achieved in year one.
You need to get a grade 10 or above in Management Accounting to study Advanced Management Accounting otherwise you will study Applied Management Accounting.
This module provides a critical understanding of the management accounting techniques today as well as cost information that can be produced for manufacturing, service and not-for-profit organisations.
You will be able to critically appraise the recent advances focusing on external as well as internal measures of performance to reflect the changing nature of modern business.
This module will examine the laws regulating the conduct of business and business organisations.
The first part of the module provides the essential basic knowledge and understanding of English law (English Legal System, Contract, Tort and Employment) whilst the second part covers Company law and Corporate Governance.
One module needs to be chosen from the four listed below.
This module introduces you to the techniques and practices of project management.
The first part of the module examines the conceptual framework and key theories that underpin each phase of project management.
The second part evaluates project optimisation mechanisms and explores ethical issues in project management.
You will have the opportunity to manage a simulated project in this module.
This module introduces you to the principles of managing personal finances through diversifying income, automating regular saving, mindful spending, long-term investing and awareness of the impact of borrowing on wealth.
In the process you will be introduced to a variety of personal finance products and issues to increase your financial literacy.
You will be provided with an understanding of personal financial behaviour and biases, market anomalies, financial bubbles, fake news and manipulations in financial markets which can influence individual financial decision making.
This module develops your knowledge of operations and supply chain management within a variety of organisations.
It examines  aspects of operations and supply chain management relevant to the design, planning, control and improvement of business operations.
You'll learn to evaluate, select and apply relevant operations management concepts, tools and techniques to solve problems, make informed decisions and improve the efficiency and effectiveness of operational processes.
This module explores the mathematics that underlies financial processes and financial decision making and complements the study of these areas in economics and accounting.
Specific areas include probability, extending interest ideas to mortgages and annuities, modelling financial data using time series models and Markov chains, applying discrete methods for option pricing, and using utility to make decisions in risky environments.
On this module you will undertake approved work experiences and personal and professional development activities, for a minimum of eighteen weeks full time employment.
This will give you the opportunity to immerse yourself in the world of work and develop effective strategies to deal with and understand work and organisational life.
The module will help you to demonstrate your commercial awareness.
Building upon your first work experience module, you will undertake approved work experiences and personal and professional development activities, for a minimum of 18 weeks full time employment.
This gives you the opportunity to immerse yourself in the world of work and develop effective strategies to understand work and organisational life.
For this module you will undertake an approved work experiences and personal and professional development activities, for a minimum of 18 weeks full time employment.
This will provide you with an opportunity to immerse yourself in the world of work and develop strategies to deal with and understand work and organisational life.
The module will enable you to develop your ability to articulate your graduate competencies and demonstrate your commercial awareness.
On this module you will undertake an approved work experience and personal and professional development activities, for a minimum of thirty-six weeks of full-time employment.
This will provide you with an opportunity to immerse yourself in the world of work and develop effective strategies to deal with and understand work and organisational life.
The module develops your ability to demonstrate your commercial awareness.
On this module you will participate in an approved work experience and a range of personal and professional development activities, for  a minimum of 36 weeks full-time employment.
The module will develop your ability to demonstrate your commercial awareness.
You will study four compulsory modules and one option module over two semesters.
In the final year, you will spend more time on ethics, governance and controversial accounting principles to advance your skills and knowledge appropriate to graduate level.
This module examines accounting theory and its influence in accounting.
The module provides you with an opportunity to evaluate and apply different strands of accounting theory to research accounting.
The module is designed to provide an in-depth exploration of philosophical debates connected to the generation of knowledge, whilst connecting such debates to those currently employed in accounting.
The use of AI is embedded in this module to promote critical thinking and analysis by comparing and contrasting the AI prompt with the literature.
This module will provide you with a conceptual understanding of contemporary corporate finance and the practical tools and techniques for the financial decision-making process.
The module explores the main aspects of financial management, including capital budgeting and investment decision-making, capital structure and finance decision-making, and working capital management.
It will enable students to form a critical appreciation of the link between accounting and finance, and the interaction between financial decision-making and capital market behaviour.
Students will also develop and refine their transferable skills, including communication, presentation skills, critical analysis, time management and team working.
This module focuses on societal values that advance the well-being of people.
In this regard, you will be equipped with the knowledge and capabilities to critically evaluate societal structures and institutional influences that promote ethical and sustainable frameworks.
An evaluation of progress in the implementation of initiatives is strongly encouraged with the view to assess how the principle human dignity is promoted.
This module introduces you to UK personal and business taxation.
It deals with the fundamental principles of UK tax law and practice, including the computation of tax liabilities.
This leads you to tackle more complex computational problems and to identify tax planning opportunities.
You will be introduced to tax software packages, and gain ‘hands on’ experience of their use.
The module gives you an understanding of the ethical dimensions of tax compliance and tax planning, including the role of tax policy in achieving sustainability goals.
This module provides you with a comprehensive understanding of key concepts, methodologies and applications in the fields of artificial intelligence (AI) and data analytics.
It equips you with the knowledge and skills necessary to analyse large datasets, apply AI methodologies in delivering accounting and finance solutions, and make informed decisions based on data-driven insights.
This module develops your knowledge of the purpose of auditing financial statements, to understand some of the theory of auditing and to develop an ability to evaluate the use of modern auditing techniques in practical situations.
You will learn how to develop and apply audit strategies and learn the practical application of Auditing Standards (ISAs).
This module immerses you in the multifaceted landscape of launching a new venture.
You will gain knowledge and develop skills relevant to conceptualising start-up commercial activities.
Through practice-led learning, you will craft a business plan enriched by industry-led insights and experiential pedagogies, fostering hands-on application of concepts beyond traditional classroom settings.
Sustainable development goals will underscore the curriculum, emphasising ethical and socially responsible business practices essential for sustainable growth.
This module will provide you with a critical understanding of the concepts and key debates in corporate accountability.
Using high-profile cases of corporate failures, you will critically evaluate challenges and shortcomings in national and international contexts.
By extending the traditional corporate governance debates to address broader social responsibility issues, you will be able to critically understand and evaluate the significance of transparency and accountability in a global context.
On this module you will undertake an approved work experience and personal and professional development activities, for a minimum of 30 days full time employment.
The module will develop your ability to articulate your graduate competencies and demonstrate commercial awareness.
To find out more about this highly-regarded course, please download the BA Accounting and Finance Programme Specification .
Hi, I'm Alison Broughton.
I'm Director of Programs for Accounting, Finance and Economics.
We're actually one of five universities in London where we work with the NHS.
The students in Year 2 can apply to do a finance placement.
They can work for London Ambulance or they will be working for an NHS Trust.
They've got one year of the three years they need for their work experience, so they can actually go on to become chartered accounts within two years.
I was impressed by the professionalism of the team.
Practised professionals like myself who've come from working within industry, bringing that experience into our teaching.
We're a real diverse mix and I really enjoy that.
At the library we have Bloomberg Terminal and other softwares that are used in the field right now, so the exposure and the learning opportunity on working and researching on those terminals was a big, big massive thing that helped me.
We have employability sessions within undergraduate degree programs.
We have an employer forum and they will talk about opportunities that they have and how to be successful in applications.
We also work quite closely with professional bodies because we are professionally accredited and they'll do talks about the advantages of gaining professional qualifications and the differences between them.
The idea of all the support that we're giving is that the students gain information so that they are informed to make the right decisions when they leave.
They look at your CV, they look at how your interview skills are, they teach you how to pass an interview.
It's all these are life skills basically.
My favourite moment is graduation when I see these students develop with them, spend time with them and they've grown.
They've got fantastic opportunities and they're going off to start their careers and that's always like a really amazing moment.
You’ll learn from an experienced teaching team through a mix of lectures, seminars, workshops, and hands-on labs.
Experience field trips that introduce new ideas, support research, and encourage deeper discussion
We have an excellent teaching faculty for your Accounting and Finance BA degree.
Our lecturers have won awards for Global Excellence by the CIMA, worked in senior positions such as Partner at KPMG, Senior Financial Analyst at HSBC, and Director of the Tax and Accounting Clinic at Middlesex University, a student-led organisation that supports local businesses with pro bono financial advice.
Our lecturers also have a wide variety of research and teaching experience, across many countries, from Vietnam, Malaysia, UAE and the UK.
My name is Dr Kooi See Yeap, I am the Programme Leader for BA Accounting & Finance.
This programme will equip you with the knowledge, skills and practical experience to become confident finance professionals in the future.
We will support you throughout the programme through a series of  award winning talks, workshops and engagement with professional bodies and employers; you can gain practical work experience by volunteering at our Tax and Accounting Clinic and work directly with real business clients under the supervision of chartered accountants.
We bring experience into the classroom, explaining how accounting theory works in the real world.
Find out more about our excellent teaching staff for your BA in Accounting and Finance at Middlesex:
Alison Broughton , Agnes Grondin , Angeli Arora, Ellie Franklin, Jo Abdul-Rahim , Kooi See Yeap , Nick Chandler , Richard Jones , Shan Wang , Yun Dai , Sulaiman Aliyu , John Magpayo , Dr Sepideh Parsa , Chandima Hettiarachchi , Ikra Hashmi
Outside of teaching hours, you’ll learn independently through self-study which will involve reading articles and books, working on projects, undertaking research, and preparing for assessments including coursework, presentations and exams.
Your independent learning is supported by the library and study hub, laptop hire, and with online materials in MyUniHub.
Your weekly timetable will typically consist of:
Our excellent teaching and support teams will help you develop your skills from research and practical skills to critical thinking.
And we offer free 24-hour laptop loans with full desktop software, free printing and Wi-Fi to use on or off campus.
We'll test your understanding and progress with informal and formal tests.
The informal tests usually take place at least once per module, from which you’ll receive feedback from your tutor.
The grades from these tests don’t count towards your final marks.
There are formal assessments for each module, usually at the end, which will count towards your module and your final marks.
Assessment methods will vary across the modules you study.
Coursework assessment types vary from presentations, business simulated case studies, online quizzes, portfolio analyses, reflective reports, business reports and academic essays.
You will have the opportunity to develop core graduate competency areas that will equip you for entering into relevant accounting and finance professions.
The balance between the two will depend on which modules you are taking.
The table below is a good guide.
Formative feedback is an integral part of the assessment process and is consistently provided for all module activities.
This comprehensive approach ensures that you demonstrate theoretical understanding in modules, and enhances your transferable skills along the programme, such as effective communication, teamwork, and adaptability.
You may choose the course option that includes a year-long work placement in your third year.
(In the course specification this is referred to as Thick Sandwich) Alternatively, you can opt for 2 smaller work experience placements over the years one and two of the course including the summers between the years of study.
(In the course specification this is referred to as Thin Sandwich).
A dedicated employability advisor will help you find a placement.
The placement forms the basis for an assessed report based on the organisation .
At the start of the placement you will be allocated an individual supervisor who provides support and advice for the duration of the project .
You will be supported throughout the course through a series of award winning talks, workshops and engagement with professional bodies and employers
We have developed a strong relationship with NHS London, offering candidates finance work placements for a 12-month period.
This is only open to second-year students.
The placement offers:
As an accounting and finance student at Middlesex University you'll be trained to use a range of industry-standard software, all provided for you on campus
All students who complete our BA Accounting and Finance degree can apply to any one of the accountancy bodies for exemptions.
You will then sit professional exams upon graduation and work towards becoming a chartered accountant.
Starting in a traineeship position, there are various pathways to choose from including audit, taxation, budget analysis, financial accounting and management accounting.
The ICAEW is a world-leading professional membership organisation that promotes, develops and supports over 142,000 chartered accountants worldwide.
They provide qualifications and professional development, share knowledge, insight and technical expertise, and protect the quality and integrity of the accountancy and finance profession.
Middlesex University enjoys partner in learning status from the ICAEW, which allows BA Honours Accounting and Finance graduates to be granted up to six exemptions towards ICAEW professional qualifications.
Due to these exemptions our graduates are also eligible to be awarded the ICAEW's Certificate in Finance, Accounting and Business (CFAB) on successful completion of a computer-based assessment in accounting.
ICAS is a global professional membership organisation and business network for Chartered Accountants.
ICAS acts as an industry regulator to ensure the highest standards are met.
ICAS Chartered Accountants and their firms are also bound by a Code of Ethics, which upholds a duty to consider the public interest and maintain the reputation of the accountancy profession over and above any personal self-interest.
Our graduates are granted up to 5 exemptions towards their ICAS professional qualifications.
The ACCA Qualification will arm you with the skills and experience to build a successful career anywhere in the world.
With ACCA's  strong presence in 181 countries around the world, your skills will be in demand internationally.
Our graduates are granted up to nine exemptions towards their ACCA professional qualifications
The CIMA is a globally recognised professional qualification in accounting, business and finance.
You will have completed up to eight exemptions from CIMA professional qualifications, meaning you have will have completed part of your professional qualification as part of your degree.
In addition, CIMA will support your time at Middlesex with employability talks and skill sessions as well as provide internship, placement and graduate opportunities with employer partners across all industries.
CIPFA is the leading professional body for accountants working in the public sector.
The public sector offers excellent career opportunities for innovative professionals, keen to make a difference.
Our students are granted five exemptions towards their CIPFA qualifications.
Founded in 1928, the Association of International Accountants (AIA) is a global membership body for professional accountants.
Our students are granted twelve exemptions towards AIA professional qualifications.
The IFA is a full member of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), the global accounting standard-setter and regulator.
The Institute of Financial Accountants (IFA) is an internationally recognised professional accountancy membership body, whose members work for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), or who run or work in small and medium-sized accounting practices (SMPs) that advise SMEs.
When you graduate from this course, you would be eligible for direct membership to the Institute of Financial Accountants and to use the letters AFA after your name.
The mission of the CFA Institute is served by generating value for core investment management professionals and engaging with the core investment management industry to advance ethics, market integrity, and professional standards of practice, which collectively contribute value to society.
Our affiliation with CFA means:
The AAT is an established and well-respected professional body for Accounting Technicians which is widely recognised and valued amongst employers and within the wider accountancy and finance professions.
AAT full members can be found in all sectors of the economy from industry to the public services, from commerce to accounting practices.
Graduates can apply to become full members of the AAT, and use the letters MAAT after your name.
This membership is contingent on demonstrating five competencies from work experience and passing a comprehensive 40-question professional competence test on accounting principles.
Read the general entry requirements for more details.
English and Maths GCSEs are a requirement
We welcome applications from mature candidates, including those without formal qualifications, provided you can demonstrate relevant experience and ability.
If you are unable to meet the entry requirements for this course, why not consider our Foundation year course to prepare you for the full degree.
For more information see our Accounting and Finance page.
If you have a qualification such as a foundation degree or HND, or have gained credit at another university, you may be able to enter a Middlesex University course in year two or three.
Find out how you can transfer at our transfer students page.
If you have relevant qualifications or work experience, we may be able to count this towards your entry requirements.
Find out more at our prior learning accreditation page.
Please apply via UCAS using the code N420.
We don’t offer interviews for this course.
Our Accounting and Finance degree opens the doors to a range of careers, many with excellent progression and competitive salaries such as trainee chartered accountant, audit trainee, project manager, financial risk analyst, finance assistant and credit controller.
Previous graduates have progressed into careers with a wide range of prestigious organisations including PwC, Deloitte, Grant Thornton, Philips, Centrica, City Bank, Credit Suisse, Leadenhall Finance, Royal Mail, Hacker Young, John Lewis
You can pursue accounting and finance career or you can go on to further study on courses such as MSc Investment and Finance , or MSc Banking and Finance .
The following course-related costs are included in the fees:
Based on the current fee, for a typical three-year degree, the total costs for your studies will be £28,605.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/adult-nursing-msc-with-nmc-registration:
Gain professional experience at London’s leading hospitals and learn in some of the UK’s most advanced training facilities
This course is designed for students who already have an UG Degree and are looking to gain an NMC registered qualification in Adult Nursing.
Developed in partnership with our NHS trust partners, you will learn the essential nursing skills needed to provided effective care of adult patients.
Learn in our highly-regarded course is based at the West Stand, at the StoneX stadium, Barnet which was recently part of a £23 million redevelopment.
Taught by expert nursing academics – recently shortlisted for the Student Nursing Times Awards 2024 ‘Nurse Education Provider of the Year (pre-registration)’.
You will also get £5000 per year to study through the NHS Learning Support Fund (LSF) | NHSBSA.
This is a non-means tested grant for nursing students.
You can also get more funding such as travel and accommodation expenses during placements, and an exceptional support fund if you are in financial hardship.
Our tutors will provide you with an excellent education, career guidance and opportunities from day one.
Your skills will be developed through placements at our prestigious partner hospitals across north London.
Our lecturers are experts and active in their field, and who continue to work across a range of clinical settings.
You'll become an independent, self-motivated practitioner, able to reflect on your practice and adopt a critical and analytical approach to the care of adult patients.
After graduating, you will have a MSc accredited by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) and excellent career prospects; 90% of our nurses are working in healthcare six months after graduating.
in London for Nursing & Midwifery by the Guardian University Rankings, 2022
You will also get £5000 per year to study, a non-means tested grant for nursing students
Through your two years of study, key modules will provide the necessary theory to meet Nursing and Midwifery Council standards of proficiency for nursing, which include science, expansive learning for professional practice and nursing knowledge.
During your time in clinical practice (on placement) you will experience the nursing care across healthcare, and in a varied of clinical areas.
Your learning will be integrated with other students from our Faculty of Health, Social Care and Education to share your learning with other midwifery, nursing and social work students.
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge and skills in meeting the fundamental care needs of people across their lifespan, with a range of physical, mental, cognitive and behavioural health challenges.
The students demonstrate high standards of professional conduct in line with the NMC code in all aspects of their practice and be able to carry out a range of procedures, under supervision, that are expected of them at this level, in a variety of health and social care settings.
This module will provide the postgraduate nursing student with an introduction to the field of adult nursing science.
It will examine key adult conditions identifying signs and symptoms of physical illness, aetiology and onset, progression of the condition, and prognosis.
It will explore the underpinning anatomy and physiology and associated pathology of physical illness as it relates to adult nursing.
This module aims to build upon and consolidate your knowledge and skills to manage and lead as an accountable, responsible, emotionally intelligent nurse.
It will support you to understand your own learning needs, and that of others so that you can evaluate and investigate complex problems, and socially engaging nursing practice.
This module aims to develop knowledge and skills required to assess, plan, and implement personalised care across the lifespan with a range of physical, mental, cognitive and behavioural challenges, across a range of health and social care settings in line with the NMC (2018) Standards of Proficiency and the NMC Code.
Students will build on theoretical evidence-based knowledge to enhance clinical and professional judgements applicable to the wider perspective of health and well-being.
This module will build on the knowledge and skills acquired in NIP3803 and to consolidate the nursing scientific principles and deepen the knowledge and application to complex adult nursing care.
This module will critically review current and best practice in physical care and how this is applied in the context of adult nursing.
It also aims to extend knowledge and application of pharmacological principles that underpin adult nursing care and future potential prescribing practice.
The module aims to consolidate knowledge and skills from the Developing Nursing Knowledge and Professional Practice Module (NIP4801) and will facilitate students to work autonomously in the adult field of practice caring for people across the lifespan with a range of physical, mental, cognitive and behavioural challenges.
To find out more about this course, please download the Adult Nursing MSc (with NMC Registration) Programme Specification (PDF) .
Here at Middlesex we have some of the most high-tech nursing and midwifery facilities within the UK.
Teaching/learning approaches are integrated with assessment arrangements to facilitate Post-Graduate achievement of the learning outcomes for this module.
There will be an emphasis on experiential learning, utilising the students’ own prior and practice experience and prepared case study material.
Students will work on these individually, in small groups and in action learning sets.
Other learning and teaching approaches will include formal study materials on My Learning with reference to e-journals; directed reading; Graduate-led seminars; workshops; service user input; and role play.
Learning and teaching will be delivered on campus and at Stone X.
You will undertake a range of assessments across the two years, which will consist of essay, poster presentations, narrated presentations, drug calculation exam, simulation, and quality improvement projects.
You will be formatively and summatively assessed, whereby the formative assessment will provide an opportunity to gain feedback to support your summative assessed.
You will also be assessed in clinical practice via an electronic practice assessment document.
Nursing is a flexible and varied career with excellent prospects.
Most of our students have their preferred jobs before they graduate and 90% of our students are in graduate-level employment six months after graduation
There are many well-paid nursing roles within both the NHS and private sector.
The skills you will formulate in your studies with us may support you to quickly progress up the nursing career ladder.
After successfully completing the course, you'll be eligible to enter the professional register for nursing.
You will also receive career guidance from your professional development tutor.
Career routes are varied and exciting ranging from specialism within specific client groups e.g.
older persons, community health or as specialist nurses or progression to roles in leadership, education or research.
MDXworks, our employability service , will help you make the most of your experience and connections to achieve your career goals.
You'll have unlimited access to one-to-one advice and support from specialists in your sector plus 24/7 online support.
You can also make the most of events and networking opportunities, on and off campus.
Our dedicated lifetime career support, like our business start-up support programme and funding for entrepreneurs, has been recognised with the following awards:
You’ll be studying with students from 122 countries who’ll become part of your personal global network.
You'll learn how to work with a global mindset and make invaluable connections on your course for your chosen industry.
You must satisfy the National and Midwifery Council (NMC) requirements to achieve a minimum of 2300 hours in practice during the whole of their programme, to gain professional registration with the NMC.
Up to 450 hrs of the 2300 will be met through Simulated Practice Learning.
Practice experiences can take place in an approved learning environment across NHS Trusts that are part of NHS London and in the independent and private sector.
These include (but are not limited to):
Students must have an undergraduate honour's degree, 2.2 or above and no more than 5 years old.
Please note that we can only accept your application for consideration if you have already obtained your GCSE (or equivalent) Maths and English at the appropriate level prior to applying.
Apprenticeship students must be employed within one of our partner organisations.
You must be digitally literate as all recruitment processes and many teaching and learning activities within the programme involve the use of technology and digital processes.
You are required to demonstrate that you have experience of working.
This does not have to be in the field of health care.
You must provide one suitable reference.
All applicants will be required to attend an interview.
Please read the interview preparation tips page .
All applicants will need to meet Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) requirements and to do so will need to demonstrate health-related experience.
To begin the programme you must also complete a satisfactory enhanced DBS Check and a satisfactory Occupational Health Check.
Applications are welcome from UK candidates with the necessary entry requirements and functional skills level 2 in Maths and English.
You will need to be working in one of our partner organizations who are willing to support you for the duration of the programme, with no visa limitations.
Recruitment as an apprentice is a joint process with the employer and Middlesex University and employment requirements must also be met.
You can find out more on your country's support page.
If you need help with your application, please contact your nearest regional office .
You'll need good English language skills to study with us.
That's usually an IELTS 6.5 qualification (with a minimum of 6.5 in all sections).
And, if you need help, we offer an intensive pre-sessional English course.
To study with us in the UK, you will need a student route visa .
Full-time students: £9,535
Full-time students: £18,350
*Course fees are subject to annual inflation.
Students may be subject to DBS costs.
Check out our guide to student life on a budget and find out more about postgraduate funding.
Interim Head of Nursing and Midwifery

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/advanced-clinical-practice-paediatrics--child-health-msc:
2025-26 Year of entry
The programme aims to support your development of the skills and knowledge, required for advanced level independent practice.
Great Ormond Street Children’s Hospital (GOSH) is committed to supporting the ambition and career development of healthcare practitioners across the UK, and in collaboration with Middlesex University, providing a range of opportunities for continuing education and career development as a graduate or postgraduate learner.
Great Ormond Street Hospital Learning Academy provides outstanding paediatric healthcare, education, training, and development that drives improvements in paediatric care across the world.
GOSH is an acute specialist paediatric hospital with a mission to provide world-class care to children and young people with rare, complex, and difficult-to-treat conditions, giving our learners exposure to specialist cases that are hard to find anywhere else in the world.
Children deserve the best.
Which is why education has always underpinned everything we do.
The aim of the GOSH Learning Academy (GLA) is to ensure all healthcare professionals, receive continual support, education, and specialist training to enhance their skills at every stage of their career in the field of Paediatric healthcare.
Our programme aims to support your development of the skills and knowledge required for enhanced-level practice.
The combination of an individually tailored pathway and a strong emphasis on work-based learning will allow you to demonstrate the academic qualification, competence, and capabilities in your chosen field of expertise.
Due to the multi-professional, personalised and adaptable nature of the programme, it is appropriate for healthcare professionals from a wide and diverse range of paediatric and child health professions and settings.
By completing the programme and transforming your role, you will work at an advanced level of clinical practice, with direct patient care to manage a discrete aspect of a patient’s care within a definer area of practice.
This can support you in delivery of high quality, safe, effective patient care and to initiate and implement innovative, person-centred improvements for patient and service outcomes.
Learn more about our programmes below, as well as our modules which can also be taken as standalone CPD modules.
As an international centre of excellence in paediatric care, this programme utilises the specialist educational expertise of our multidisciplinary team to support you in identifying areas for professional and personal development and for the enhancement of paediatric healthcare practice in your organisation.
The core focus of the programme is the recognition of and building on previously acquired knowledge and skills, combined with workplace learning and supplemented with virtual live and on-demand pre-recorded modules.
Key to the programme is the relationship between the trainee, your clinical supervisor and your programme tutors.
This programme has been mapped to the RCPCH Paediatric Capability and Curriculum Framework (PCHCF), ensuring alignment with national standards for paediatric advanced practice.
This integrated approach supports learners in developing the knowledge, skills, and capabilities needed to deliver high-quality, evidence-based care to children and young people.
By embedding the PCHCF throughout the programme, we ensure strong academic foundations, clear clinical relevance, and enhanced career progression opportunities for ACPs within the paediatric workforce.
You will benefit from our pre-programme consultation and advice which continues throughout the programme.
You'll also benefit from our unique personal tutoring system which takes a proactive approach and echoes the values of ‘building success for all’, helping you to reach your potential as a qualified advanced clinical practitioner.
The programme starts in September each year.
For module teaching dates, visit the individual module webpages.
Learners will need to attend a welcome session on 23 September 2025.
On successful completion of the Advanced Clinical Practice (Paediatrics and Child Health) MSc programme, you will be entitled to the professional title of Advanced Clinical Practitioner having successfully demonstrated capabilities with the four domains of Advanced Clinical Practice.
Successful practitioners will have acquired a range of advanced level skills which will offer you further career progression and/or progress to doctoral level studies.
You will have developed skills required to share your advanced knowledge and expertise across the local, national and international arena and to act as supervisors of other advanced practitioners.
You will also build a professional reputation for yourself, act as a role model and be known as an expert within your field.
You will be able to practice as an Advanced Clinical Practitioner within a job role which will have been identified by your employer and as such, you will be the right person, with the right skills, in the right place at the right time (HEE, 2017).
Physical Examination and Assessment of Children and Young People (15 credits)
PCH4100
15
September Year 1
Yes
To develop and apply the required knowledge, skills, and behaviours to independently undertake the physical examination and assessment of children and young people (up to the age of 18 years) holistically, safely, and effectively.
Applied Clinical Physiology of Children and Young People (15 credits)
PCH4101
No
To develop and apply the foundations of medical sciences to describe and explain normal, altered, and extremes of physiological states enabling the interpretation of clinical findings signifying disease and/or illness in children and young people.
Diagnostics and Clinical Management in Children and Young People (15 credits)
PCH4102
January Year 1
To build upon previously acquired knowledge, skills and behaviours in holistic assessment, anatomy, and physiology to develop an evidence-based approach to diagnostic and clinical management processes, recognising their increasing levels of independent practice and accountability.
Advancing Professional Practice (15 credits)
PCH4103
To develop and apply the knowledge, skills and behaviours required of advanced level practitioners in management and leadership in the healthcare context, adult learning, educational theory, and personal professional development.
Managing Clinical Complexity in Children and Young People (15 credits)
PCH4104
September Year 2
To build upon previously acquired knowledge, skills, and behaviours to demonstrate capabilities in managing the assessment, diagnostic and clinical management processes in the context of complexity, uncertainty, and risk, recognising their increasing levels of independent practice and accountability.
Non-Medical Prescribing
NSA4900
45
January Year 2
Develop the skills and evidence-based knowledge to undertake safe, appropriate and cost-effective independent and supplementary prescribing roles in our course designed for nurses, midwives and SPHN where there is a clinical need.
Clinical Capabilities in Advancing Practice through Work-based Learning (15 credits)
PCH4105
October Year 3
In this module students will demonstrate the consolidation of knowledge, skills and behaviours acquired whilst studying the programme by the completion and submission of a portfolio of evidence of clinical capability in their respective area of clinical practice.
Developing Research Capabilities (60 credits)
NSA4050
60
You can find more information in the Advanced Clinical Practice (Paediatrics and Child Health) MSc programme specification .
Module and programme information is indicative and may be subject to change.
You will be taught using a student-centred approach.
This is designed to support and develop mastery of knowledge and understanding of your area of professional practice.
There are a variety of teaching and learning strategies used within this programme, all of which are designed to support you and to allow you to have equal and equitable opportunities to optimise your potential, support, independence, and autonomy of learning and facilitate your development as Advanced Clinical Practitioner.
Stimulating and innovative learning opportunities will be available whether within the University, online or in your workplace.
Learning will be supported and facilitated by the programme leader, module leaders, clinical supervisor, and personal tutor.
Face-to-Face teaching will take place either on or around the Great Ormond Street Hospital campus or at the Middlesex University West Stand at StoneX stadium .
Exact locations for teaching days will be advised closer to the start date.
Your skills and knowledge are assessed using a variety of methods, which are informed by the University and School Assessment Strategies together with the Health Education England/Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health Advanced Clinical Practice capabilities.
Assessment methods may vary according to the type and focus of the module which may include reflection on practice, oral presentations of case studies, presentations, portfolios, Objective Structured Clinical Assessments (OSCAs), reports, clinical audits/evaluation, research/project proposal.
On successful completion of the Advanced Clinical Practice (Paediatrics and Child Health) MSc programme, you will be entitled to the professional title of Advanced Clinical Practitioner having demonstrated capabilities with the four domains of advanced clinical practice within your specialism.
Apply now .
Applications will close four weeks before the module start date but may close early due to demand.
It is highly recommended that candidates submit their application as early as possible.
It is the applicant’s responsibility to ensure that they have arranged the necessary study leave to attend the module.
Sponsorship Candidates whose fees are being paid by their organisation will need to obtain a purchase order from their organisation for their fees and upload this as part of their application.
You will not be able to save your application form once you begin, so please have the purchase order ready.
If you are unable to obtain a purchase order prior to the application deadline, candidates can upload a sponsor letter.
You may wish to use this sponsor letter template.
Information for Sponsor Organisations When raising a purchase order for module fees, the supplier is Middlesex University.
If Middlesex University is not set up as a supplier on your procurement system, then contact CPDFinance@mdx.ac.uk to obtain the required information for set-up.
If you have any questions about the programme, please contact academic.programmes@gosh.nhs.uk .
Part-time students: £67 per credit 1
1 Course fees are subject to annual inflation so the total costs for part time study are shown here as a guide.
Learners who withdraw from the module on or before the start date will likely be charged the full tuition fees.
For more information and to answer your frequently asked questions, please visit our postgraduate funding page.
For further information about the programme content, or to set up a programme planning meeting to discuss which pathway will be best for you, please contact the Academic Programmes Team at the GOSH Learning Academy: academic.programmes@gosh.nhs.uk .
For general information about studying at Middlesex University, please explore the links below.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/short-courses-and-cpd/advanced-physical-assessment-module:
These modules are offered at Introductory level (level 6) and Advanced level (Level 7), for those undertaking autonomous practice.
They have been designed for emergency nurse practitioners, primary care nurse practitioners, community matrons, night-nurse practitioners, physiotherapists, occupational therapists, and nurses working in pre-surgical clinics, day surgery, cardiac and respiratory clinics, critical care outreach teams and walk-in centres.
The aim of these modules are to enable you, as the experienced practitioner, to develop your physical assessment skills and apply this to your clinical context.
As the autonomous practitioner, you will be equipped with the advanced knowledge base, communication skills, and safe clinical examination skills to make confident autonomous, effective and evidence based patient care decisions.
You will also be able to undertake an autonomous assessment to start planning appropriate care or referral for your patients .
After completion of the module you will be able to:
This module will cover the following areas:
Learning and teaching will have a problem orientated focus through guided study and case scenarios in order to develop and reinforce lifelong learning perspectives for clinical skills.
This will be done through guided on line learning supported by narrated presentations and online demonstration videos for the student to access at any time.
Students will access face to face clinical assessment skill demonstrations and supervision from teachers.
Students will then be given the opportunity to develop these learnt assessment skills so it is essential that the student has a supervisor in practice and has secured an appropriate practice setting.
Study days will give the opportunity for development, application and reflection of clinical examination skills to aid with diagnosis and plan care / referral.
Our level 6 module is meant as a starting point to advanced practice.
The level 7 modules need to demonstrate autonomous practice and clinical reasoning skills.
Module 3512: introduction to Physical Assessment (15 credit Assessed with clinical exams No assessment of clinical competence in your work area.
No portfolio.
Module 4512: Advanced Physical Assessment (15 credit Assessed with clinical exams No assessment of clinical competence in your work area.
No portfolio).
Module 4502: Physical Assessment Decision making and Management (30 credit Assessed with clinical exam and clinical portfolio demonstrating clinical competence in your work area, please note the portfolio is due 2.5 months after final OSCE, this may be important if wanting to undertake the January Non medical prescriber module).
For additional information and timetables please contact H.Oliver@mdx.ac.uk
Assessment will be 100% OSCE based for level 6 and mix of OSCE and Portfolio for level 7.
OSCE is based on all the clinical examination skills learnt as well as history taking and a written paper based on anatomy, physiology and clinical scenarios.
To be eligible for this module you must have current employment and support to practice in an appropriate health care setting.
You should also be able to give details of an allocated clinically experienced (in that field) supervisor who will support your clinical practice.
Download an enquiry form and for more information on the application process.
Applications to this module should be made directly to the university, apply for a CPD module or programme .

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/advanced-clinical-practice-msc:
Our Advanced Practice degree will enable you as an experienced practitioner working at an advanced level to meet the nationally agreed advanced clinical practice criteria.
This will include the four pillars of advanced practice (clinical practice, leadership and management, education and research) in order to further develop your role as an advanced clinical practitioner.
Key to the programme is the relationship between the trainee, your clinical supervisor and your University tutor.
The following awards (at either MSc or PG Dip) are given depending on practice area: Health Care Practice, Nursing, Mental Health, Midwifery or Primary Care.
We have five different specialisms for this course – Health Care Practice, Nursing, Midwifery, Mental Health and Primary Care Nursing.
Whether studying for a PG Diploma or an master's degree, you will benefit from our pre-programme consultation and advice which continues throughout the course.
As an experienced practitioner working at an advanced level, we know that you have the makings of an advanced clinical practitioner having already gained academic qualifications and experience.
Our job is to capture that past learning, to work with you and your clinical supervisor to build on your experience by identifying work-place learning opportunities.
For very high-quality student experience and student outcomes
Middlesex University Midwifery Team won the ‘Maternity & Midwifery Trailblazer Award’ for Outstanding Achievement and Commitment in Education at the Maternity and Midwifery Awards London Festival 2025
You’ll work alongside your clinical supervisor and personal tutor to follow an initial self- assessment of capabilities and design a unique programme of university study and workplace learning.
This personalised approach to learning will enable you to demonstrate the capabilities within the domains of advanced practice, education, research and management and leadership.
We have four different specialisms for this course - Nursing, Midwifery, Mental Health and Primary Care Nursing.
ACP capabilities within each domain will be demonstrated in the workplace or university and then documented through a series of reflective narrative accounts supplemented with appropriate evidence in a portfolio.
You’ll do this as part of the module entitled Capabilities of Advanced Practice which is one of three core modules in the programme.
The others are the Advanced Practitioner Enquiry and Advanced Project – these align with the capabilities within the research domain.
On successful completion of the MSc Advanced Practice programme, you’ll be entitled to the professional title of Advanced Clinical Practitioner having demonstrated capabilities with the four domains of ACP practice.
Successful practitioners will have acquired a range of advanced level skills which will offer you further career progression and/or progress to masters or doctoral level studies.
You’ll have developed skills required to share your advanced knowledge and expertise across the local, national and international arena and to act as supervisors of other advance practitioners.
You will also build a reputation for yourself, act as a role model and be known as an expert within your field of nursing/midwifery.
Here is a brief overview of the modules.
Advanced clinical practice is delivered by experienced, registered health and care practitioners.
It is a level of practice characterised by a high degree of autonomy and complex decision making.
This is underpinned by a master’s level award or equivalent that encompasses the four pillars of clinical practice, leadership and management, education and research, with demonstration of core capabilities and area specific clinical competence.
Advanced clinical practice embodies the ability to manage clinical care in partnership with individuals, families and carers.
It includes the analysis and synthesis of complex problems across a range of settings, enabling innovative solutions to enhance people’s experience and improve outcomes.
(Health Education England, 2017).
This module provides an opportunity for those working in an advanced level of practice to integrate, synthesise, and demonstrate the application of knowledge around an area of specialism through clinical case presentation in the workplace.
In addition, you will be supported in demonstrating through a reflective and systematic way, your journey in developing and advancing the capabilities that are required for Advanced clinical practice as outlined by the Practice Standards Framework (Health Education England and Royal College of General Practitioners).
This will be demonstrated through a portfolio of evidence.
In Year Two, you will engage in a project and select optional modules that allow you to tailor your studies to your interests and career goals.
This phase emphasizes practical skills and real-world application, enabling you to deepen your expertise in specialized areas.
This degree offers an individualised and bespoke pathway based on pre-accreditation (up to 60 credits) tailored to current and future development needs.
There are a range of CPD optional modules that can be undertaken (up to 60 credits).
To find out more about this course please download the Advanced Practice MSc programme specification (PDF) .
We review our courses regularly to improve your experience and graduate prospects so modules may be subject to change.
"During my MSc in Advanced Clinical Practice at Middlesex University, I found the teaching style precise and effective.
Alison Harris and Tina Moore were incredibly supportive as I transitioned into a senior clinical role.
They deeply understood the challenges of balancing a full-time job with demanding assignments."
"At one point, I nearly gave up, but Alison’s guidance and Tina’s reassurance helped me persevere.
Their patience and dedication ensured I could manage my clinical responsibilities while continuing my studies.
I highly recommend Middlesex for its understanding staff and superior teaching style compared to other universities."
Athikur Choudhury, ACP graduate
"In 2021 my clinical director called me to see if I would be interested in the ACP course.
I thought this was completely out of my reach with a demanding role professionally and three children and a busy home.
However, I looked further into the modules and the variety of those which could be specific for my role as matron and clinical nurse specialist…so I applied!
"The ACP course provided an extensive depth of understanding and knowledge within my specialist area of women's health and cancer, particularly the practice portfolio, physical assessment and project proposal.
"Broader modules of leadership and service development equipped me with management skills and the confidence to improve practice and patient care.
I cannot recommend this course highly enough.
The project module was demanding, challenging, but at the same time, it was rewarding to find outcomes and solutions to facilitate change in patient care.
"The ACP course modules are bespoke to your own speciality, and I am so very grateful to my NHS Trust and Middlesex University for their support, for the guidance of my clinical director and the excellent module leaders.
The university staff, especially those in the library, could not be more accommodating – especially to someone who had never used some of the software.
"I am very proud to have started at Middlesex as a student nurse in 1998 and to have achieved my ACP in 2023.
I am hoping to support other ACPs in the future at my NHS Trust."
Tara Egan, Lead Nurse – Women's Health, Outpatients & Imaging, CNS Gynae-Oncology, Whittington Trust
"I wanted to become an advanced practitioner ever since the roles first appeared – to advance my career and help to take the nursing profession to the next level.
"I was finally able to start my studies, but I was daunted by the task of juggling work, family life and studies.
I have two small children so I knew it would be no easy task.
However, I was soon reassured by the university’s supportive, knowledgeable and accommodating lecturers.
Their guidance and feedback inspired me to successfully complete the programme.
The modules were well structured and relevant to the ACP role.
"I am now a qualified ACP and independent non-medical prescriber, working alongside junior doctors, consultants and other professionals in a multidisciplinary team."
Iiris All, ACP graduate
"As a junior nurse I wished to become an advanced practitioner.
At that time, I could not find the words to describe what I wanted professionally.
From when I began learning about my specialist field (ENT), I knew I wanted to prescribe.
"The physical assessment course was so important for me.
I have had to do clinical assessments and triage in many of my previous posts, and this aspect is essential.
I did more modules and learned how to develop big projects, do research and prepare a portfolio with my competences in advanced practice.
It was quite intense, hard work and exciting, learning how to complete my essays.
"My tutors were amazing.
Looking back, I can say this programme was really important for my professional fulfilment.
I learnt a lot, and advanced my practice – as it says in the title.
I definitely recommend it."
Julio Rodriguez, Advanced Nurse Practitioner in Ear, Nose & Throat (ENT), West Middlesex Hospital
"This programme allowed me the opportunity to learn, implement and live my dreams.
"It empowered me to share my experiences and skillset with total strangers, both fellow students and lecturers.
We forged friendships and developed as professionals together.
"It was not without its challenges, but these encouraged us to negotiate the pathway to completion.
An amazing course, with brilliant, encouraging lecturers."
Shawn Marie Robinson, Nurse Hysteroscopist, Whittington Trust
You will be taught used a student centred approach.
This is designed to support and develop mastery of  knowledge and understanding of your area of professional practice.
There are a variety of teaching and learning strategies used within this programme, all of which are designed to support you and to allow you to have equal and equitable opportunities to optimise your potential, support, independence and autonomy of learning  and facilitate your development as Advanced Clinical Practitioner.
Learning will be supported and facilitated by the programme leader, module leaders, clinical supervisor and personal tutor.
You have a strong support network available to you to make sure you develop all the necessary academic skills you need to do well on your course.
Our support services will be delivered online and on campus and you have access to a range of different resources so you can get the help you need, whether you’re studying at home or have the opportunity to come to campus.
You have access to one to one and group sessions for personal learning and academic support from our library and IT teams, and our network of learning experts.
Our teams will also be here to offer financial advice, and personal wellbeing, mental health and disability support.
Your skills and knowledge are assessed by the use of a variety of methods, which are informed by the University and School Assessment Strategies together with the HEE/RCGP ACP capabilities.
Assessment methods may vary according to the type and focus of the module which may include: Reflection on practice, oral presentations of case studies, presentations, portfolios, OSCEs, reports, clinical audits/evaluation, research/project proposal.
Compulsory
An honours degree of 2:2 or above in nursing, midwifery or a related subject.
Watch our step-by-step video how to apply for postgraduate taught courses .
You will be expected to attend a pre-programme planning discussion
On successful completion of the MSc Advanced Practice programme, you’ll be entitled to the professional title of Advanced Clinical Practitioner having demonstrated capabilities with the four domains of ACP practice within your specialism.
You will be able to practice as an ACP within a job role which will have been identified by your employer and as such, you will be the right person, with the right skills, in the right place at the right time (HEE, 2017).
You’ll study with students from 122 countries who’ll hopefully become part of your global network.
And after you graduate, we'll still support you through our alumni network to help you progress in your chosen career.
Part-time students: £65 per credit

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/short-courses-and-cpd/advanced-practitioner-inquiry---------:
This module is designed to develop your understanding of advanced inquiry methodologies which are appropriate for senior health, social care or education practitioners.
You will be supported to design a proposal for a real work based project that has clear objectives related to your own professional development and the development of practice in your setting.
This module can be studied remotely.
Over the course of the programme, you will be supported to:
All teaching is delivered online.
September 2025 start
All sessions are on a Tuesday and run from 2-4pm
January 2026 start
All sessions are on a Wednesday and run from 2-4pm
For further guidance on this module, please contact Ruth Miller r.miller@mdx.ac.uk
You will be assessed through a 3,500 word proposal for a work based project as well as a critical commentary on professional engagement, leadership strategies and your own professional development (1000 words).
You will also need to provide a portfolio of selected preparatory activities (1,500 words).
If you want to take this module as part of a master’s programme than please refer to the relevant programme page and apply.
Applications to this module should be made directly to the university, apply for a CPD module or programme.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/advanced-social-work-practice-ma-pgdip-pgcert:
Enhance your professional social work skills and develop your capacities in reflection, supervision and professional leadership, so that you can practice at a specialist level and improve outcomes for users of services
Enhance your professional social work skills and improve outcomes for users of services.
Please note this programme is only open to those who already hold a professional social work qualification and are wishing to pursue further study.
Our academic staff and practitioners bring a wealth of experience and knowledge, and our long-standing and strong ties with local authorities, charities and independent agencies ensure our courses provide the most current policy and practice in social work.
Teaching staff are very supportive and do their best to ensure you succeed.
Upon graduation, you will have developed the knowledge and skills to be able to apply for specialist practitioner roles and/or more advanced social work positions such as those within management.
According to the Times Higher Education Young University Rankings 2023
According to the Complete University Guide, 2022
Upon completion of this programme you will have knowledge and understanding of advanced application of theories, models and methods of social work interventions and related research in social work practice as well as understanding the lives and experiences of people who need social work services.
You will be able to work in accordance with the relevant Knowledge and Skills Statement (KSS) and the social work regulatory body’s policies and guidance, and have the knowledge required to meet the requirements of PCF for social work at an advanced level.
What will you gain?
You will enhance and deepen your research practice skills and critical thinking so that you can evaluate research and scholarship in the field and apply it sensitively and systematically.
You will develop your clinical and professional leadership, and demonstrate mastery of social work skills within your specialist area.
This module focuses on developing your research capability as part of your professional practice within a health and social care context.
You are given the opportunity to select a topic, or a concern which may be relevant to your professional practice and / or work context.
This module facilitate your transition of a qualified social worker from being enabled by others, to becoming enablers of others, and meeting the Stage 1 practice education requirements within a particular specialism such as adult, child and family, or mental health social work as set out in the Practice Education Professional standards (PEPS).
Have a look at this module in more detail , including fees and learning outcomes.
This module will promote good practice in your assessment of and is supported by practice-based teaching.
You will also be enabled to meet Stage 2 practice education requirements within a particular specialism of adult, children or mental health as set out in the Practice Education Professional Standards (PEPS).
This is an interprofessional module which aims to equip experienced practitioners in health and social care with the skills and knowledge required to enable you to undertake a Best Interest Assessment (BIA).
This module will enable you, as a qualified social worker, to demonstrate that since qualifying you have built on and extended both your practice and academic competence and capabilities in your practice within a mental health setting.
This module will critically develop your knowledge and skills to enable you to work effectively within the context of leadership and service development in the workplace.
This module aims to provide managers and practitioners with the opportunity to explore legislation and policy directions in public and community services.
There will be a focus on the impact of the practitioner’s role in leading the development of services in a way that gives high importance to quality enhancing.
This module draws on a range of theories and principles to offer an interdisciplinary and in-depth understanding of relationship based practice for more effective social work interventions in child and family and adult social work.
Taught by experienced practitioners who specialise in Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT), this course will develop your knowledge and skills in treating mental health sufferers with particular focus on how you apply CBT theory and practice to your own work with individuals and families.
Contact our team for more information.
This module has been developed to assist mental health practitioners enhance their skills in risk assessment and risk management.
You will focus on risk assessment and management related to a variety of service user issues, mental health problems, multi-professional and multi-disciplinary working.
It will be underpinned by theoretical evidence from a range of sources including psychiatry, nursing, social work, research evidence and service user experience.
This module is ideal for health care professionals, particularly those working in mental health settings (inpatient wards, community).
It has been developed to assist mental health practitioners to enhance their skills in social inclusion practice, promoting recovery through effective care planning and management of patient care needs for individuals under mental health services.
O r view the module page for more information
To find out more about these course, please download the MA Advanced Social Work Practice (PDF).
How is the MA/PGDip/PGCert Advanced Social Work Practice taught?
You will learn through research, reading and critical reflection, workshops, tutorials and class discussions.
Teaching will predominantly if not fully, be delivered online.
You will be studying at our leafy north London campus in Hendon.
Your course timetable will balance your study commitments on campus with time for work, life commitments and independent study.
Outside of teaching hours, you’ll learn independently through self-study which will involve reading articles and books, working on projects, undertaking research, and preparing for assessments including coursework.
You will be assessed via a combination of formative and summative written assignments, group work, assessed role plays and reflective writing based on practice experience.
There are currently no examination assessments on the programme.
Our Sheppard Library provides a wide range of resources and support to help you to succeed in your studies.
We offer lots of support to help you while you're studying including financial advice, wellbeing, mental health and disability support.
And if you want to find out whether Middlesex is the right place for you before you apply, get in touch with our Disability and Neurodiversity Support.
Having an advanced masters-level qualification in social work is advantageous if you would like to:
All applicants must have a degree-level social work qualification.
We accept the equivalent of the below qualifications from a recognised overseas qualification:
We normally require a second-class honours degree 2:2 or above or equivalent and/or a social work qualification at undergraduate (level 6) or postgraduate / masters (level 7)
To find out more about the qualifications we accept from your country please visit the relevant support in your country page.
If you are unsure about the suitability of your qualifications or would like help with your application, please contact your nearest regional office for support.
If you have relevant qualifications or work experience, academic credit may be awarded towards your Middlesex University programme of study.
For further information please visit Recognition of Previous Learning page .
International students who require a Student route (formerly tier 4) visa to progress on a course at Middlesex University must apply for study on a full-time basis.
However, this course is offered part-time so you are eligible to apply on a part-time basis.
Changes to the Immigration Rules introduced in January 2018 now allows international applicants to apply for Student route (formerly tier 4) visas for part-time postgraduate study (courses leading to a qualification at RQF level 7 or SCQF level 11 and above).
Student route visa students studying part-time are subject to certain restrictions:
*Please note that, if the course of your choice involves work experience, unpaid work, placements or internships, we will be unable to sponsor you to study a part- time course under the Student route (formerly tier 4) visa.
You will not need a visa to study in the UK if you are a citizen of the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway or Switzerland.
If you are a national of any other country you may need a visa to study in the UK.
Please see our visas and immigration page for further information.
You must have competence in English language to study with us.
The most commonly accepted evidence of English language ability is IELTS 6.5 (with minimum 6.0 in all components).
Find out more about our English language requirements .
Applications for postgraduate study should be made directly to the university.
Please visit our Postgraduate Application page for further information and to apply.
Sherine, Marsha and Victor are Social Workers working in different organisations across London.
They were part of a cohort of 20 Practice Educators who graduated in July 2022.
“Studying, working full time and mentoring a student during the Covid pandemic did have its challenges, but my journey has been enriching and so rewarding.
It has been an absolute pleasure being part of this cohort and having the peer support and guidance from other students and the course lecturers.
I am really excited about the future and my continuous journey as a Practice Educator." (Sherine)

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/advanced-social-work-practice-education-pgcert:
Become a social worker who can supervise and assess student social workers by meeting Practice Education Professional Standards (PEPS)
This programme facilitates the transition of qualified social worker from being enabled by others, to becoming enablers of others, by meeting the practice education requirements as set out in the Practice Education Professional standards (PEPS).
This is done primarily through being the trainee Practice Educator of a student social worker on placement with you for 100 days.
Enhance your professional social work skills and develop your capacities in critical reflection, supervision and professional leadership, so that you can practice at a specialist level and improve outcomes for users of services.
Enhance your professional social work skills and further your career by honing your skills in critical reflection, research, supervision and professional leadership.
Many of our graduates continue working as a Practice Educator before using the experience gained to apply for advanced social work positions such as those within practice management.
Upon completion of this programme you will have an in-depth understanding of the theory and practice of adult learning, learning organisations and continuous professional development.
You will know the meaning and scope of ‘practice education’ within a national and professional context and the role of the practice educator and practice assessor as well as the pre-qualifying social work student within that context (this is also in reference to the PCF and PEPS).
As well  as enhancing and developing your professional social work skills and knowledge, you will also have the ability to enable others in particular areas of specialist social work practice.
You will have the pre-qualifying social work practice requirements and the related knowledge and values within the workplace in relation to PCF, PEPS and KSS.
Learn more about Practice Education: Stage 1
Learn more about Practice Education: Stage 2
All applicants must have a degree-level social work qualification
UK/EU and international students are eligible to apply for this course.
Please note, due to restrictions placed on students with a Student route (formerly tier 4) visa undertaking part-time study by the UKVI, courses requiring a placement cannot be studied by International students.
For further information please visit our Accreditation of Prior Learning page .
Entry onto this course does not require an interview, portfolio or audition.
We normally require a second-class honours degree 2:2 or above or equivalent in Social Work at undergraduate (level 6) or postgraduate / masters (level 7).
Find out more about the qualifications we accept from the relevant country support page.
Please visit our Postgraduate application page for further information and to apply.
Upon graduation, you will have developed the knowledge and skills required to apply for specialist practitioner roles and/or more advanced social work/ welfare positions such as those within leadership and practice management.
See individual module costs in the About your course section .

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/short-courses-and-cpd/advanced-work-based-project:
This 60-credit module will support you to undertake a substantial work based project that is designed to develop your own professional practice and address a practice, organisational or service issue that you have already identified in your workplace or professional field.
You will be encouraged to consider improvement and leadership strategies to support the successful management of your project and to deliver real outcomes that have the potential to transform practice.
This module can be studied remotely and is usually taken after completing Advanced Practitioner Inquiry module.
Please contact the module leader for more information.
You will be taught via learning which is learner-centred and supported by:
You will be assessed using a project report equivalent of 12,000 words.
The format of the report is negotiable depending on the project aims and target group.
You will also present during a project seminar for 15 minutes plus discussion time.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/short-courses-and-cpd/advancing-professional-practice:
This module aims to develop and apply the knowledge, skills and behaviours required of advanced level practitioners in management and leadership in the healthcare context, adult learning, educational theory, and personal professional development.
Delivered by Great Ormond Street Hospital Learning Academy (GLA), this 15-credit module aims to develop and apply the knowledge, skills and behaviours required of advanced level practitioners in management and leadership in the healthcare context, adult learning, educational theory, and personal professional development.
This module can be taken standalone or as part of the MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Paediatrics & Child Health).
Active learning will allow students to learn via collaboration, cooperation, and peer-based learning.
Activities may include interactive lectures, clinical skills demonstration and supervised practice, small group activities, case-based discussions, workshops and tutorials.
Synchronous and asynchronous learning and teaching activities are delivered via a combination of study days and digital strategies at local sites or online using the Virtual Learning Environment (MyLearning).
Formative assessment will be:
For the summative assessment, learners will:
Teaching will take place over a whole day.
Face-to-Face teaching will take place either on or around the Great Ormond Street Hospital campus or at the Middlesex University West Stand at StoneX Stadium.
Virtual Teaching Dates: 21/01/2026, 28/01/2026, 04/02/2026, 11/02/2026, 25/02/2026, 04/03/2026
Face-to-Face Teaching Date: 11/03/2026
Assessment date: 24/04/2026
To undertake this module, you must:
It is the applicant’s responsibility to ensure that they have arranged the necessary study leave to attend the programme.
Candidates whose fees are being paid by their organisation will need to obtain a purchase order from their organisation for their fees and upload this as part of their application.
You may wish to use the Sponsor Letter template .
When raising a purchase order for module fees, the supplier is Middlesex University.
If you have any questions about how to pay the module fees please contact CPDFinance@mdx.ac.uk.
Apply Now
Part-time learners: £67 per credit*
*Course fees are subject to annual inflation so the total costs for part time study are shown here as a guide.
Learners who withdraw on or after the start date of the module will be liable for the full tuition fees.
If you have any questions about the module, please contact academic.programmes@gosh.nhs.uk .

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/advertising-public-relations-and-branding-ba-honours:
Working on high-profile company briefs, this unique course will provide you with skills that are valuable to employers in the fast-paced world of advertising, PR or branding
This unique degree is the only one in the UK which combines the triple opportunity of advertising, public relations and branding.
Our graduates have gone on to work for companies such as Ogilvy, Warner Bros, Universal, Adidas and many more.
It is a brilliant opportunity to become a great all-rounder in creative marketing or to specialize in one of the core disciplines.
We are looking for highly motivated students seeking a career in the world of marketing and communications whether that's working for a brand, an agency, a start-up, a blue-chip company or the public sector.
People are constantly creating, consuming and sharing content in new and innovative ways.
If you’re passionate about working in advertising, brand management or publicity campaigns, then this course will set you up with the tools you need to succeed.
You'll develop an understanding of the roles that PR, advertising and branding play across society.
You'll also build a portfolio of work by planning and implementing campaigns, producing adverts and other kinds of promotional content for both traditional and online channels.
Recent students successfully gained employment with the following companies; Forever Beta, Whynot!
Innovation Enterprise, Marin Software, APS Group, Adidas and TBWA.
Find out more about their roles in our Careers section.
This course attracts talented students globally at our campuses in London, Dubai, Mauritius, and partner in Vietnam.
This course enhances employability and prepares you to thrive in diverse cultural communities.
You will graduate with skills such as leadership, collaborative innovation, communication, empathy, and technological agility, ensuring you stand out in the competitive job market.
This course will explore modern promotional industries,  developing your essential knowledge and skills in the fields.
Exploring historical and contemporary practices, it covers market and audience research alongside AI-driven audience engagement insights, strategic planning, and creative execution within diverse online and offline media landscapes.
You will gain insights into how promotional campaigns shape cultural narratives and societal dynamics while mastering brand design and management across sectors.
Our students have gone on to work for Ogilvy, Warner Bros, Universal, Adidas, and many more
We have a large collection of resources covering work based learning and subject-based areas as well as useful online resources
You will learn by attending seminars and practical workshops.
Most seminar groups have about 25–30 students.
Your work will be divided into credits of approximately 10 hours of study time.
You will need to complete 120 credits per year, which are broken down into modules of typically 30 credits.
In the first year, you will learn how brands shape and are shaped by culture.
You’ll explore the art and science of key skills in communication and creative industries.
Additionally, you will develop your creativity and practical skills in concept development and content design for advertising, PR, and branding industries.
This module introduces you to design disciplines, such as design thinking, life drawing, digital design, moving image, video editing, photography, design for print, and styling.
Through hands-on exploration, you will develop a diverse set of practical and technical skills applicable across different design fields, focusing on process, production, and presentation.
You will engage with the latest tools, technologies and processes enabling you to develop adaptability and technological agility.
You will learn the skills, knowledge and literacies needed to thrive in this environment.
Also, you will learn to critically evaluate the design processes and develop appropriate solutions to communication briefs, resulting in project-specific outcomes that demonstrate your creativity and proficiency in design.
This module introduces you to the position of illustration, design, brands, and media in contemporary society and issues of equality and responsible production and consumption.
It fosters critical understanding of images, texts, and objects in various contexts.
This module extends and deepens your understanding of the relationship between your developing practice and the practices that have developed at other times and at other places.
Additionally, it equips you with transferable skills for autonomous learning at degree level encouraging exploration of theory and practice fostering independent research and reflective practice.
Engagement with academic and contemporary media resources will enable you to develop critical and practical vocabularies in preparation for the second and third years of your degree.
This module develops your abilities in industry-relevant communication tasks or assets related to illustration or graphic design or fashion communication and styling or advertising, public relations and branding or digital media.
It will equip you with a range of digital and/or analogue practices, analytical approaches and tools by which to create, curate, direct and produce content required to deliver impactful communications achieving the required objectives.
The module also encourages the exploration of individual style through a series of introductory projects and to explore possible career trajectories in the creative industries.
This module encourages innovation through the exploration of design methods and cultivate conceptual thinking and creative confidence.
It will enable you to generate creative ideas adept at addressing diverse communication challenges.
Emphasis on visual communication ensures that you will understand the principles of design across various formats.
Through hands-on exploration, you will learn to respond imaginatively and effectively to given design briefs by sourcing reference material, applying technical skills, and developing skills in experimentation and reflection.
In the second year, you will deepen your expertise in analysing audience behaviours and conducting audience research, creating strong brand identities, developing effective strategic campaigns, and crafting compelling content for promotion and engagement.
This year will prepare you to excel in the dynamic field of advertising, PR and promotional industries.
In a world where social media and mobile usage have become the norm, it is essential for brands and companies to observe their audience's everyday practices and engage with their shared culture.
To seamlessly integrate grassroots consumer culture into their advertising, branding, and PR processes, companies and organisations need to employ traditional market and social research methods.
More importantly, they need to augment these methods with new and digital-based methodologies capable of accessing and providing insights from an ever-expanding range of digital data sources.
This module equips you with the essential knowledge and skills to understand, analyse, and engage with target audiences effectively.
Through workshops, case studies, and practical group learning sessions you will explore various tools, techniques, and strategies to create comprehensive customer personas, conduct audience research, and develop engagement strategies using both traditional and digital methods.
You will learn how to connect these insights to advertising, PR, and branding strategies, as well as audience engagement.
Brands have become integral to all aspects of social life, from the constantly evolving ways in which people use brands as a means of constructing their identities and creating social bonds, to the political as well as commercial value they hold for companies, public institutions and even individuals.
In a context where such a diverse range of organisations and individuals are required to imagine and communicate themselves as brands, as a set of symbols, values, and emotions that convey a certain narrative vision of the world, the creation of brand identities has emerged as a key discipline that integrates a range of competencies from across the spectrum of the promotional industries.
This module provides you the tools to understand how brands build value through connecting with their audiences and to apply that understanding in the development of a set of guidelines for their own brand.
This module explores the practical process of campaign planning and how best to communicate awareness of a product, service, idea or societal issue in an effective and engaging way.
The module will develop your practical campaign planning skills based on briefs set by industry organisations providing you with direct experience of working for clients.
Emphasis will be placed on problem solving and over the course of the module you will undertake primary and secondary research into the audience and demographics, develop measurable and achievable goals, conceptualise and develop creative ideas and prepare a media strategy.
You will then create and execute mock-ups and media assets to present a cohesive and a compelling IMC (Integrated Marketing Communications) campaign plan to an industry client.
In the third year, you will keep updating with the new cutting-edge AI tools in digital communication and marketing industries, and their applications in the fields.
You’ll advance from creating and designing brand images and identities to managing brands.
Simultaneously, you will apply all the key skills gained from the programme to implement your major project, focusing on branding, re-branding, or self-branding, enriched with your entrepreneurial knowledge.
The module bridges the evolving landscape of digital communications strategy with the transformative power of Artificial Intelligence (AI), specifically tailored for aspiring advertising, PR and branding professionals.
It delves into the intersection of AI, digital marketing and contemporary communications campaign strategies, unravelling opportunities and challenges that arise from this dynamic relationship.
This module fosters a comprehensive understanding of the intersection between digital marketing, Artificial Intelligence (AI) and communication strategy.
It investigates the ethical considerations surrounding AI-driven communications practice.
The module prepares you to navigate the evolving digital landscape with agility and adaptability.
In this module, you will explore the fundamental principles and strategies involved in effectively managing brands within the context of the advertising, public relations, and branding industries.
Through theoretical discussions, case studies and practical exercises, you will develop a comprehensive understanding of brand identity, positioning, communication, and equity management.
This module will provide a crucial step in your learning journey by fostering the high-level critical and practical skills necessary for navigating the diverse landscape of screen production processes.
It aims to encourage creative, ambitious, and innovative approaches to creating screen media.
By providing an environment that mirrors current industry processes and conditions, the module will help you gain practical insights into bringing major projects to realisation.
Additionally, the module empowers you to develop and execute major projects with a clear understanding of the project’s purpose, intended audience, and contextual relevance.
It also equips you with the skills and confidence to present your work effectively and professionally to others, both in its developmental stages and as a completed project, which will enhancing your readiness for professional engagement in the field.
This module will develop your understanding of the dynamic career landscape within advertising, PR, branding and beyond.
This module focuses on fostering the development of essential skills and knowledge crucial for success in these industries.
It will provide an in-depth exploration of the evolving career opportunities, emphasizing current trends and future prospects.
You will be guided in the cultivation and management of your personal brand, leveraging the power of social media platforms to enhance visibility and professional presence, as well as networking and interview skills, project management proficiency, and  developing an entrepreneurial mindset.
You will gain a well-rounded understanding of the industry, hone your practical skills, and develop a strategic mindset necessary for navigating the advertising, PR, and branding and promotion industries.
To find out more about this highly regarded course, please download the Advertising, PR and Branding BA specification (PDF) .
You'll be taught by an experienced teaching team who have a range of expertise and professional experience.
As well as practical work using industry software such as Adobe Creative Suite, you’ll be introduced to core concepts through a mix of seminars, workshops, tutorials and independent study that offer opportunities to discuss and develop your ideas both with your lecturers and fellow students.
Employers in the creative industries will expect you to work collaboratively with a range of colleagues and clients, and this is reflected in the course.
We emphasise not only group project work but also teaching and learning through the use of professional project management platforms.
You'll also have the opportunity to participate in a dedicated work placement in year two, during which you'll gain valuable hands-on experience.
Teaching and learning benefits from specialist spaces such as Digital Media Labs and film / video equipment from our well-stocked Kit Hub.
The three-year degree is taught through:
You will have regular one-to-one tutorials with your lecturers and a range of tutors from services such as the Learning Enhancement Team and the Library.
All students will benefit from personalised support from their academic advisor.
The course will offer you an immersive and practical learning experience to help you excel in the dynamic fields of advertising, PR, and branding.
Through direct engagement with real-life scenarios, you will gain insights into these subject areas, honing your skills in strategic planning and execution.
With a strong emphasis on hands-on learning, you will collaborate with real clients to develop media campaigns and benefit from interactions with industry experts through guest lectures.
Throughout the three-year journey, you will work closely with academic and professional mentors, crafting quality portfolios that prepare them for future study, work, and their own business or self-branding.
At the same time, the course introduces emerging technologies such as AI and their applications in the promotional industries, to foster your understanding, application and critical thinking about new technologies, practices and humanities.
You will be studying at our north London campus in Hendon.
You will typically have ten to twelve hours of timetabled classes per week.
Here is an indication of how you will split your time:
Year 1
Year 2
Work placement (optional) 1
If you don't take the work placement module, your teaching, learning and assessment hours will increase to 392 hours.
Year 3
Your learning will be assessed regularly and is made up of 100% coursework.
It comprises a variety of assessment formats, ensuring you will have ample opportunity to showcase what you have learnt and what you can do.
These might include individual and group research projects and campaign proposals in professional formats (decks and reports), individual and group pitches and presentations, essays, critical reflections and portfolios of creative work.
The three-year degree is entirely coursework-based, with no exams.
Assessments include:
This comprehensive approach ensures that you will develop practical skills and industry-relevant experience.
To help you achieve the best results, we will provide regular feedback.
Our Sheppard Library has over 1000 study areas with and 600 computer spaces, with some areas open 24 hours a day
Visit the Middlesex Unitemps page .
You can apply for scholarships and bursaries and our MDX Student Starter Kit to help with up to £1,000 of goods, including a new laptop or iPad.
We have also reduced the costs of studying with free laptop loans, free learning resources and discounts to save money on everyday things.
Check out our guide to student life on a budget .
By the end of this course, you will have developed knowledge and skills that are valuable across the creative industries, most specifically in advertising, public relations, brand strategy/consultancy and marketing.
You may go on to become self-employed and run your own business, agency or start-up, or go on to postgraduate study in a related area of media communications, media management and marketing.
We see significant numbers of our students graduating into professional APRB-related fields and developing quickly to work in the following roles:  global brand manager, social media specialist/manager, PR manager, marketing specialist, account/client services manager, copywriter, campaigns manager, creative advertising manager, press officer, digital marketing manager, e-commerce manager, web content developer or in the following sectors, editorial services, events & exhibitions production management or project management.
Some students pursue their academic studies by doing a master at MDX, or at other UK and international HE institutions.
We have students who are or become freelancers and influencers in the advertising, public relation and branding sectors, or develop their own businesses, including several Instagram influencers with more than 300k followers.
Recent students successfully gained employment in the following roles after graduating:
The students in the last two roles also won the coveted Dean’s Award for Academic Excellence for the highest grades across the School on graduation, exemplifying not just the calibre of the degree but also our vision of how academic achievement and practical expertise go hand in hand.
Want to be your own boss?
You'll have the chance to pitch your business to gain mentoring and grants of up to £15,000.
While studying with us, our students have gained high-profile placements at companies including Saatchi and Saatchi, MTV and the BBC.
You will have the opportunity to engage with industry-facing briefs to pitch ideas and produce work of professional standards in a range of modules.
The optional module in your second year, Work Placement in the Creative Industries, will help you to gain substantial experience in your chosen field.
The third-year module, Professional Identity and Entrepreneurship, is designed to support you in refining your CVs, enhancing job search strategies, improving interviewing skills, and honing other essential professional competencies.
These include time management, teamwork, pitching ideas, and lifelong learning skills, all aimed at preparing our students for internships, and job opportunities.
At Middlesex, we're proud to recognise the potential of future students like you and support you to succeed in your future career.
We'll accept T Levels for entry onto this course (and our extended courses with a foundation year) with GCSEs in line with UCAS tariff calculation.
Find out how you can transfer courses.
If you don't meet the entry requirements, why not consider our media foundation course to help you prepare for the full degree?
You can apply now via UCAS using the code N567.
Find out how to make a an effective personal statement .
You won't be required to interview for this course.
Find out more about undergraduate funding and all of our scholarships and bursaries.
"I chose Middlesex University because it is very multicultural and I wanted to study with a lot of different people from different cultures.
I really like the lecturers, they are very experienced and they have done a variety of things in the past so is great to pick their brains.
In terms of the course I specifically enjoy the social media element, and I first had the opportunity to use my skills while working for the North London Story festival on campus.
I now also work in the library, I help with their communications so I can use all the knowledge from the course in real life situations.
"
Evana Carmel Sequeira
Advertising, PR and Branding BA, 3rd Year Student

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/animation-ba-honours:
Explore all aspects of animated filmmaking with our multi-BAFTA winning academic team in our state-of-the-art animation studios
This degree course will enable you to develop your creative and technical skills, ensuring you gain the experience you need to work in today's highly competitive and exciting animation industry.
You will have the opportunity to experiment with a broad range of styles and processes, including traditional and digital 2D animation, stop motion, and 3D computer graphics.
You’ll get to study all of the software and skills needed to succeed in these different forms of animation, as well as their underlying technical principles and artistic applications.
were positive about the teaching on their course (NSS 2025)
with access to digital and traditional studios and darkrooms and industry standard equipment
including Aardman Animations, Lupus Films, Tiger Aspect Productions and Blue Zoo
When choosing a part-time course, you will study the same modules as the full-time course but over a longer period.
Find out more about the many benefits of studying part-time at Middlesex University .
We aim to build you up over the course of three years, from learning the basic fundamentals of the art form, all the way up to producing fully formed, professional-quality films and portfolios.
Throughout this course, you will study a broad range of animation practices and industry-standard tools including: Traditional 2D: Drawing, painting, mixed media; Digital 2D: Adobe Animate, After Effects, ToonBoom Harmony and Storyboard Pro, TV Paint and Adobe Photoshop; Stop Motion: Dragonframe, puppet, claymation, cut out sand and paint on glass and pixilation; 3D Computer Animation: 3D scanning and printing and Cinema 4D.
We begin in the first year with simple but engaging exercises designed to teach the core principles of drawing movement, and introducing students to the industry-standard software they’ll use to bring those drawings to life.
You will develop a personal approach to animation and learn to apply an understanding of film language, narrative and the technical processes of animation to the creation of your own animation sequences.
You will learn about changing practices in the history of animation and explore and experiment with different forms of graphic media.
The second-year focusses on taking these principles even further to create compelling characters, performances, and narratives.
We also begin to introduce students to the realities of studio practice, preparing them for work in the animation industry with an emphasis on collaborative projects and more challenging creative briefs.
Storytelling and character performance are crucial skills for any animator interested in engaging an audience and tapping into their emotions.
This module develops these abilities through a series of exercises and short productions which ask you to develop new and unique characters, before animating them in unusual and exciting situations.
Continuous life drawing classes will focus on enhancing your understanding of anatomy and gesture, feeding directly into their character work.
You will have learnt the fundamentals of animation in your first year and this module focusses on expanding your creative horizons and artistic capabilities.
The core principles of movement are emphasized through a series of animation skills workshops which develop students’ technical ability through a range of advanced exercises.
You will also be exposed to a wider array of genres and forms of animation, studying films from the history of stop motion, animated documentary, video games and experimental film.
Commercial animation is one of the most collaborative artforms in the world.
You will learn how to work as a team, assuming each of the core roles involved in the production of an animated films, including director, producer, storyboard artist, concept artist, and key animator.
You will also be able to collaborate with musicians and performers in order to produce fully-fledged, high-quality animated films to a set brief.
This module will familiarise you with the realities of life in the animation industry, encouraging you to consider your future career path by introducing you to the roles, processes and hierarchies of a typical animation studio.
By studying films and filmmakers from countries like the UK, Japan, the Czech Republic and Kenya, you will also learn about the ways in which historical and cultural contexts can impact the development of an animation industry and the art which it produces.
The third year allows students the freedom to develop their own major projects , which will serve as dynamic showcases of their skills.
Students can choose to direct a complete film or specialize in a particular aspect of animation production.
You will consolidate your skills to a professional standard and fully prepare for a career in the animation industry, identifying potential career paths and preparing a graduation show reel, portfolio and promotional material.
You will research and write a contextual dissertation that connects to your practical areas of interest.
You will develop your animation practice in contexts which closely mirror real-world professional workflows.
You will develop pre-production material for a major animation project using industry-standard processes and techniques, including independently producing pitches, storyboards, concepts and animatics to a strict timeline.
You will also complete a ‘live project’, working to a brief set by an external, real-world client with whom you must engage throughout the process.
You will undertake a research project in which you conduct a thorough investigation into a subject of your choosing.
You can focus on anything from the world of animation, film or art, while demonstrating your ability to work independently to a set schedule and brief.
The goal is to develop a sophisticated understanding of the ways in which art can create meaning, and to build up an invaluable bank of knowledge that will directly enhance their animation practice.
You will bring together everything you’ve learned on the course in a major artistic project.
This will serve as a showpiece to demonstrate your skills and abilities.
For many students, this will be a substantial animated film of their own design and direction, allowing them to partake in all aspects of animation production.
Other students may choose to specialise in a particular skill which matches their chosen career path, including storyboarding, character animation, concept art and model-making.
We want to make sure that you leave Middlesex with everything you need to succeed in the competitive animation industry.
This module guides you through the process of compiling professional-quality portfolios, show reels, websites, and other promotional tools through which you can pitch yourself to potential employers.
For more details on this course, please download the BA Animation Programme Specification .
Animation Showreel from 2025
Our teaching style is thoroughly interactive, combining demonstrations of important animation techniques with engaging intellectual discussions, one-to-one tutorials, and supervised studio-based practice.
We aim to provide you with a boutique learning experience, tailored to your own creative interests and career ambitions.
Our academic team includes multi-BAFTA winning directors, leading animation researchers, dedicated technicians, and skilled working animators with credits at Warner Bros, Nickelodeon, Channel 4 and the BBC
You will be studying mainly in our Grove building, a vibrant hub which houses all our arts, design and film courses.
The Grove is equipped with specialist animation studios fitted with state-of-the-art facilities for analogue and digital production.
Teaching group sizes will vary to suit the needs of the individual project.
Core sessions will be delivered to classes of around 25 students, along with technical workshops aimed at smaller groups.
Our excellent staff-student ratio means that our lecturers also have plenty of time to spend working with each individual in one-to-one tutorials.
Students will typically receive around 13 contact hours each week, spread evenly across three days.
Outside of teaching hours, you’ll learn independently through self-study which will involve working on your animation projects, undertaking research, and preparing for assessments.
The focus on independent learning will increase as the course progresses, with the final year emphasizing the students’ use of initiative and their ability to apply the skills which they’ve developed.
This course’s assessments are 100% coursework based – that means there are no sit-down exams.
The majority of your assessments will consist of practical projects, in which you will be asked to produce either a finished film or a portfolio of short pieces of animation.
You will also be assessed on other examples of your artistic practice, including life drawing, concept art, and storyboards.
These projects will be assigned both individually and in groups, and their structure is designed to authentically mimic the process of animated filmmaking in a real-life studio environment.
In order to demonstrate your commitment to research and your understanding of the animation medium, you will also be asked to write short essays.
This will culminate in a longer written dissertation in your final year, for which you will research a subject of your choice.
Feedback will be given in written form upon the completion of each assessment, as well as in one-to-one tutorials and group critiques throughout the duration of the project.
Our specialist facilities are recognised as among the best in the country.
You can also hire specialised equipment for your assignments.
There is a wealth of specialist technical help with professionals dedicated to helping you achieve excellence.
Our specialist facilities are recognised as among the best in the country and include:
Our recording studio houses industry-standard equipment, with a dedicated technician on hand to train and provide support.
There is a wealth of specialist technical help with professionals dedicated to helping you achieve excellence in our workshop areas.
With our focus on teaching industry-standard software and mimicking studio workflows, our graduates have gone on to hold roles such as animation director, producer, key animator, storyboard artist, art director, model makers, layout artist, background artists, character designers, and motion graphic designer.
In addition, our students have found great success as independent filmmakers, accruing numerous BAFTA nominations and appearances at major international film festivals.
Our course has very strong links with the UK animation industry, including studios like Aardman, Tiger Aspect, Lupus Films, Fonic Post Production, The Brewery VFX, Passion Pictures and Blue Zoo.
The course has developed a reputation for the high calibre of its graduates: London-based studios like Lupus Film are making Middlesex their first port of call when seeking young animators, with our graduates making up a substantial portion of the crew on some of their most acclaimed recent films .
Middlesex has strong links with art and design employers.
Our industry partners sponsor final-year students and give visiting lectures.
Hundreds of art and design agencies, organisations and other employers attend our final-year degree show each year.
Animation at Middlesex will prepare you for a career in many areas of the animation industry, with roles including:
Our students have gone on to work in roles where animation skills are highly valued, for example, creating visuals for live music tours, concerts, events, theatre productions and operas.
The BA Animation also enables entrepreneurial students to set up their own business.
To name a few of our alumni and their work:
Most recently, 2021 BA Animation graduate Kate Mercer’s animated film ‘Walden’ won the Exceptional Merit award at the Nature Without Borders International Film Festival, and two of 2023 graduate Anna Maria Leventi's films have been selected for the London International Animation Festival
Our dedicated lifetime career support, like our business start-up support programme and funding for entrepreneurs, has put us in the top 10 UK universities for students who want to be CEOs and entrepreneurs (Hitachi, 2021).
Placements and internships greatly improve graduate employment prospects, and those who take part achieve excellent academic results through applying their learning in a professional setting.
We encourage all our students to undertake work experience during their studies whether through part-time work, volunteering or other means.
The Animation department also organises live projects with industry practitioners so you can experience working on professional creative briefs.
Our specialist employability service and London location ensure that every year our students and graduates gain prestigious placement opportunities.
We'll always be as flexible as possible and take into consideration any barriers you may have faced in your learning.
And, if you don't quite get the grades you hoped for, we'll also look at more than your qualifications.
Entry onto this course requires a portfolio review, please see more information in the Portfolio tab.
If you don't meet the entry requirements, why not consider our Foundation Year in Visual Arts course to help you prepare for the full degree?
You will be asked to provide a portfolio of your work including evidence of any life drawing, character and background design, storyboarding and animation experience you have.
We've put together a quick video to help you.
View our portfolio video (YouTube) .
After you have applied, we will send you a link for you to submit your portfolio online via the applicant portal.
You can apply now via UCAS using the code W615.
Find out more about undergraduate funding and all of our scholarships and bursaries .

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/short-courses-and-cpd/antipsychotics-essentials:
This one-day training which explores the basics of how Antipsychotic medications work, is designed for a wide range of health and social care professionals who experience client contact in any capacity.
This training benefits all health professionals (registered nurses, social workers, psychologists, student nurses, nurse prescribers, nursing associates, and health care support workers) involved in providing care for people with mental illness taking antipsychotic medication.
This study day aims to develop your knowledge and skills in providing safe care and clinical management of mental health service users taking antipsychotic medications.
Particularly for staff who experience client contact and who are looking to enhance their practice, specifically those with a limited knowledge of how medications used in the treatment and management of psychosis, schizophrenia work (including clinical benefits and side effects).
By the end of the session, you should be able to:
This course is taught via synchronous online delivery using a web-based learning and teaching platform (e.g.
MS teams, Kaltura new row, Adobe Connect, Zoom).
The content on the day will be delivered via a mixture of PowerPoint presentation, small group exercise and discussions, group feedback and recap/quiz.
To apply for this course or for more information, please email our NHS study days team .

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/short-courses-and-cpd/applied-clinical-physiology-in-children-and-young-people:
This module aims to develop and apply the foundations of medical sciences to describe and explain normal, altered and extremes of physiological states enabling the interpretation of clinical findings signifying disease and/or illness in children and young people.
Delivered by Great Ormond Street Hospital Learning Academy (GLA), this 15-credit module aims to develop and apply the foundations of medical sciences to describe and explain normal, altered and extremes of physiological states enabling the interpretation of clinical findings signifying disease and/or illness in children and young people.
This module can be taken as part of the PGCert Paediatric Enhanced Clinical Practice (Specialism) or the Advanced Clinical Practice (Paediatrics and Child Health) .
It is not available as a standalone module.
Learners are only expected to attend one of the available assessment dates.
Cohort 1 - Advanced Clinical Practice (Paediatrics and Child Health) MSc and PGCert Paediatric Enhanced Clinical Practice (Specialism)
Cohort 2 - PGCert Paediatric Enhanced Clinical Practice (Specialism) only
The fees refer to the 2025/26 academic year unless otherwise stated.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/applied-psychology-msc:
Taught by experts, this course will prepare you for doctoral research or a career in public health, education, business or industry
This course has been developed to meet a growing demand for knowledge, skills and experience in the application of psychology to tackle real-world problems, and to bring about change in areas such as physical and mental health and wellbeing, counselling, child development and education, developmental disorders, trauma, and clinical neuropsychology.
It will teach a range of generic and subject-specific skills which are needed for a career as a practising psychologist.
Applied Psychology is the application of psychological understanding to real-world situations, to create positive change.
Applied psychologists work across a variety of sectors including mental health and wellbeing services, education, sport and exercise settings, business, and the criminal justice system.
To become a chartered psychologist, you will need to undertake additional study and practice in an applied area such as clinical neuropsychology, counselling, educational, sport and exercise, or health psychology.
This MSc in Applied Psychology lays the foundations for this by offering specialised modules in neuropsychology, counselling and psychotherapy, trauma, developmental disorders, and topics and applied issues in developmental and educational psychology.
You will learn both qualitative and quantitative research skills to enable you to evaluate and inform evidence-based practice, and to conduct your own higher-level psychological research.
The course has a step-off point at Postgraduate Diploma and Postgraduate Certificate.
If you join us on this course, you'll leave with excellent employment prospects — over 90% of our Psychology graduates are employed within six months of completing their degree.
You'll have access to unrivalled facilities, which include fully-equipped lecture theatres and tutorial spaces, a psychophysiology laboratory, social observation laboratories, a video editing suite, a virtual reality laboratory, an auditory cognition laboratory, and testing cubicles.
You'll be taught by expert staff who are leading researchers and practitioners in cognitive neuropsychology, counselling and psychotherapy, developmental psychology, health psychology, and sports and exercise psychology.
You’ll be using state-of-the-art facilities and specialist equipment for learning and research
Our staff are all leading researchers and practitioners working in areas such as cognitive neuropsychology, counselling and psychotherapy, developmental psychology, health psychology, sports and exercise psychology
This course will help you develop your qualitative and quantitative research skills in preparation for doctoral research, specific work in industry or a future research post
This course will:
Here is a brief overview of what you will study.
The aim of the module is to provide an intellectual setting within which students can both develop a fuller appreciation of substantive areas of applied psychology and improve their practical and analytical skills.
The module will enable you to develop an appreciation of the controversies and issues related to traditional and contemporary research, ethical issues, and up-to-date knowledge in the domain of applied psychology.
This module is designed to equip students with the statistical literacy needed to confidently analyse, interpret, and communicate data in psychological science and beyond.
Students will develop a deep understanding of key statistical concepts and learn how to apply them to real-world psychological research.
Through engaging with data, students will refine their ability to interpret and evaluate quantitative evidence, making sense of statistical language and understanding its relevance in different contexts.
By the end of the module, students will be able to approach data-driven questions with confidence, selecting and applying the right techniques to draw meaningful conclusions.
Most importantly, students will gain the skills to communicate complex findings clearly and persuasively, whether in reports, presentations, or professional discussions, ensuring that students can use data not just to analyse, but to inform and inspire.
This module introduces PG students to qualitative research methods.
Through a dynamic blend of theory and hands-on practice students will gain the skills to design, generate, analyse and interpret qualitative data with confidence.
Students will also develop reflexive practice, sharpening the ability to critically engage with their role as a researcher and the impact of their work.
Students will become proficient in their qualitative research knowledge and skills, which will enable them to undertake independent projects that make original contributions to their field.
This module aims to introduce students to and pave the pathway towards the helping professions, namely counselling and psychotherapy, as well as other professions that utilise this same skill set (e.g.
coaching).
This module aims to provide students with an introduction to some of the main schools of psychological therapy, their theoretical origins and how the theory is applied in practice so that they can make these choices.
This module also aims to introduce students to the basic principles of communication skills that form the foundation of all counselling and psychotherapy, and these skills can be applied to and enhance any career.
This module provides students with an opportunity for in-depth, advanced study in a specific area of psychology, pertinent to the degree for which they are registered, guided by, but largely independent of, tutor support.
Students will apply appropriate principles of planning and conducting research, and present their research study in the form of a written journal-style article, using appropriate styles and conventions.
This module develops students’ critical understanding of the synergies and connections between criminology and forensic psychology building core knowledge of psychological theories and concepts.
The module advances students’ awareness of the criminal justice process and the points at which psychological assessments and interventions are applied, encouraging understandings of the application of psychology justice system responses.
The module builds students’ capability to appraise systematic reviews and evaluation research including those focused on behaviour change and preventing recidivism interventions.
An additional aim of the module is to develop students' psychological literacy, ensuring they have the capability to use their disciplinary knowledge and theoretical understandings and insights to respond to the opportunities and challenges that exist within this area of criminal and social justice and psychological health and behavioural treatment.
The module aims to provide a critical understanding of current research evidence and intervention/clinical perspectives on psychological trauma and its effects.
The impact of trauma on different groups and at different stages of the lifespan will be reviewed.
Models of intervention for psychological trauma will be critically examined and the current debates around ameliorating factors and developmental outcomes will be explored.
The “reproducibility crisis” in Psychology (and in science more generally) has been vigorously debated in recent years in terms of its existence, nature, causes and possible solutions.
Many changes to research practice have as a result been introduced and proposed, commonly referred to collectively as “Open Science”.
In broad terms these changes aim to promote and support greater openness and transparency at all stages of the research process.
These changes are also evolving and contested as new concerns are identified.
This module aims to familiarise students with these debates so that they can navigate their way through these rapidly developing changes.
The module will also introduce students to current tools that support Open Science.
This module aims to provide students with an understanding of the developing relationship between human brain and behaviour.
It draws on evidence from physiological, cognitive and neuroscientific research to examine the development of key cognitive processes including sensory processing, learning and memory, language, action perception and production, and emotion processing at different stages of life.
Typical cognitive functioning is considered alongside atypical functioning in individuals with developmental disorders or acquired pathology.
To find out more information about this course, please download the Applied Psychology MSc specification (PDF) .
You'll gain knowledge and understanding through: • Attending small group interactive teaching sessions, seminars, workshops and labs • Participating in individual and group-based exercises.
And you will learn cognitive and practical skills through: • Small group interactive teaching sessions • Group discussions • Practical in-class exercises • Individual research project.
You will be based at our north London campus in Hendon.
Whether you are studying full or part-time, your course timetable will balance your study commitments on campus with time for work, life commitments and independent study.
Some weeks are different due to how we schedule classes and arrange on campus sessions.
In a typical year, you’ll spend about 1200 hours on your course.
Outside of teaching hours, you’ll learn independently through reading articles and books, working on projects, undertaking research, and preparing for assessments including coursework and presentations.
A typical week looks like this:
Learning
Hours per week
On-campus/Online
9 (FT), 4.5 (PT)
Independent study
31 (FT), 15.5 (PT)
FT: Full-time
PT: Part-time
On-campus: This includes tutor-led sessions such as seminars, lab sessions and demonstrations as well as student-led sessions for work in small groups.
Online learning: This is teaching that is delivered online using tools like Zoom, as well as work that you do yourself using online teaching resources.
Independent study: This is the work you do in your own time including reading and research.
You can also study this course part-time.
Your knowledge and understanding is assessed by: • Summative coursework which includes essays, extended essays, visit/workshop reports, presentations, project reports and research dissertation (MSc students only) • Formative assessment will also be employed throughout the programme.
You will gain skills through the completion of extended essays, mini projects, lab reports, presentations, visit/ workshop reports, and a research dissertation.
Each term, you'll receive constructive feedback on your work and progress from your tutors.
The Psychology Department's state-of-the-art facilities and equipment are used for teaching and research
This course is designed for those who wish to work in UK or international health services, public health organisations, educational or occupational settings, or academia, or who plan to progress to doctorate/postgraduate training in clinical psychology, counselling psychology, health psychology, occupational psychology, educational psychology, forensic psychology or neuroscience.
There are strong employment prospects for psychology graduates and salaries in this field are excellent.
The range of professional skills that you'll develop ensures that you'll be highly valued across the economy.
After finishing this master's course, our graduates go on to work in diverse sectors such as health and wellbeing services, education, local government, industry, or academia.
Many go on to undertake doctoral research.
We welcome your application regardless of your background or experience.
For this course, we generally look for applicants with at least a high 2:2 in Psychology or a closely related discipline.
In your personal statement , make sure that you highlight your qualities that are most relevant to this course.
Such as your ability to be forward-thinking, analytical, creative and collaborative.
Find out more about how to apply for postgraduate taught courses and watch our step-by-step video.
The fees below are for the 2025/26 academic year.
Full-time students: £10,700 Part-time students: £71 per credit Part-time students: £35 per dissertation credit
Full-time students: £17,100 Part-time students: £114 per credit Part-time students: £57 per dissertation credit
If you are not currently working, we can help you find work that fits around uni and your other commitments.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/architectural-technology-bsc-honours:
2026-27 Year of entry
Gain the knowledge, skills and practical experience to start your career as a climate-aware architectural technologist who helps build a better future by making sustainable and inclusive places
Our architectural technology degree will provide you the skills to enter a diverse range of roles in both the private and public sectors of construction.
Our architectural technology degree combines architecture, civil engineering, services engineering, environmental science and building information modelling to give you the insight, skills and experience to succeed in the most heavily demanded areas of construction.
Gaining first-hand experience in transforming conceptual designs and drawings into practical building projects, you’ll get to grips with the latest technologies, industry software and Building Information Modelling (BIM) techniques.
We’ll give you the flexibility to study over three years (full-time), four years (with a paid, year-long work placement), or six years (part-time).
You’ll also be able to get a bursary worth up to 50% if you decide to continue your studies with our MSc BIMM course.
You’ll graduate with the skills to enter a diverse range of roles in both the private and public sectors of construction.
Our graduates have gone on to become BIM managers, lead designers, information managers, project managers and consultants – and some have even set up their own architectural design practices.
You’ll learn new methodologies, develop your creativity, collaboration, problem-solving, and communication skills, and have the chance to work on real-life projects – in the UK and abroad – to gain a broad understanding of the full project management process.
You’ll get one-on-one support throughout your studies, and our series of guest lecturers also gives you access to some of the industry’s most influential professionals.
You’ll collaborate with us to put your new skills into practice through real-world construction and infrastructure projects such as:
Burj Azizi Global University Exposure Internship Programme
You’ll also have the opportunity to build your professional portfolio by taking part in some of the industry’s most prestigious events and competitions – in the UK and internationally.
You’ll also get to showcase your work to industry professionals in our final year degree show.
The Chartered Institute of Architectural Technologists (CIAT) has accredited our course.
This accreditation ensures that you will meet the requirements of Chartered Architectural Technologist.
Studying on a CIAT accredited course will support you in becoming a Chartered Architectural Technologist, (MCIAT).
Visit the CIAT site .
Follow us on Instagram: @MDXAT
This is a three- or four-year degree, with an optional industry placement year.
Or it can be studied part-time over six years.
This course will help you develop the professional and ethical behaviour and attributes, appropriate for an Architectural Technologist and will prepare you for professional practice and career opportunities.
We will develop your knowledge and skills in Design, Technology, Management and Practice and foster an understanding of sustainable technology and the UN Sustainable Development Goals & Climate Framework.
You'll be introduced to information and digital technology guidelines such as Digital Built Britain.
And we will teach you about building technology with reference to the UK Building Regulations and Health, Wellbeing & Safety and Equity, Diversity and Inclusivity.
You will develop your studio practice and contextual studies along with industry standard CAD skills, focusing on underlying construction techniques, material choices and the environmental factors impacting on buildings.
Your model making skills will be developed so that you can communicate your ideas clearly, with physical and digital models.
You will work on your own and in teams.
A professional portfolio, which is critical to your practice as an Architectural Technology professional, will be developed throughout the course.
This module introduces you to architectural technology as a profession and its role within the industry and its changing landscape.
It focuses on the core principles of design and technology by developing your ability to generate, communicate and present design ideas using different means.
It explores the steps involved in the design and communication of architecture, developing awareness of the building elements and exploring issues associated with detailing and construction assembly for a low-level complexity project and its relevant building regulations and fire safety.
This module develops your knowledge of mechanics and properties of materials so that you can understand basic elements, components, systems and methods of constructing and servicing a conventional building.
It enables you to understand the scientific principles underlying the stability of a building and the control of the environment and to undertake basic design calculations.
This includes equipping you with basic skills in choosing and designing appropriate structural and building services systems.
This is in addition to introducing skills and methods of detailing basic components and categories of the building.
This module introduces core skills in studio practice and contextual studies.
It develops your knowledge of historical and contemporary practice within your discipline and introduces creative processes, critical thinking, visualisation techniques and core study skills.
This knowledge and skillset are developed and applied through a series of exercises and projects.
This module offers an introduction to core computing and communication skills for design practice.
You will develop skills in computer-aided design (CAD) modelling, design visualisation, design communication and modelling/prototyping.
It introduces strategies for engaging with distributed communities of practice and developing an online presence.
This year will start with considering which year-long placements are available and how to secure one.
We highly recommend that you do consider taking this option, so that you differentiate yourself in the marketplace and connect meaningfully with industry, beyond what the academic course will offer.
Your second year of study focuses on deepening your understanding of how building science fundamentals impact on buildings and turn them into not only functional but sustainable and comfortable living spaces and structures.
Your ideas will move from concepts to detailed designs, ready for analysis and conforming to standards and regulations.
As you increase your technical knowledge and skill, you will also learn how to embrace and apply the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs), a unique feature of this course, into your practice.
The course champions these international goals and aims to cover all 17 of these.
There will be weekly industry speakers in Semester 2, who will share updates on current industry practices and related contemporary issues, so that you can learn about them in real-life scenarios, and understand the practices needed to address them.
This will include individual work, group activity and debates.
The module develops an advanced understanding of how building science fundamentals impact building performance and create high-performance sustainable buildings that are both comfortable and functional as well as minimize the environmental impacts of their construction and operation, hence developing competence in proposing advanced technical architectural design solutions.
This module also develops your design and detailing skills through the comparative study and application of established working practices, concepts, and principles.
This module develops your understanding of the commercial, legal, financial, ethical and environmental context of design and engineering processes and their impact on society.
We will cover issues such as sustainability goals, recognition of obligations to the society, the professional practice and a commitment to professional standards and code(s) of conduct relevant to your discipline (such as the Engineering Council).
The module also covers other wider issues such as materials and their impact on environmental factors, waste management, ethics, EDI in a workplace, enterprise and entrepreneurship, security concerns, globalisation (global manufacturing, operating in global markets, cultural issues, financial concerns, risk etc) and its impact on business operations.
This module focuses on professionalism, ethical practice and code of conduct in architectural technology.
It provides an understanding of the business processes influencing practice including political, economic, societal, technological, environmental, and legal.
It further introduces the fundamental building blocks of the relationship between parties through appointments and administration of construction contracts.
The module further provides a detailed understanding of the impact of digital innovations in collaboration and how building information modelling (BIM) can be used to design and collaborate in a Common Data Environment (CDE).
This module equips you with in-depth knowledge of UN Sustainable Development Goals in the context of architectural technology.
You will apply BIM workflows and sustainable and inclusive design principles to a medium-level complexity project evaluating the environmental impact of your design decisions,  taking an evidence-based approach through an iterative design process.
This allows you to evaluate issues associated with detailing and construction assembly in relation to building regulations and fire safety.
This module will strengthen, extend and apply the knowledge, skills and experiences you have gained from your course in a working environment, and to complement, stimulate, reinforce and encourage the development of discipline-specific technical knowledge, and your transferable skills.
You will gain knowledge of professional requirements in an industry context and record and critically reflect on your personal practice
Your last year of study is professional practice year.
You will have acquired all of the basic academic knowledge and skills required to practice as an Architectural Technology professional especially if you have taken the Thick Sandwich placement option.
This year gives you the opportunity to develop your practice as an individual, working towards a goal to launch your career at the end of the year degree show.
To help you achieve that, the final year will focus on synthesising your learning and apply it to self-limited and self-directed work, with your tutors support.
Alongside this, you will also have access to critics and advice from industry practitioners that will be part of your learning.
You will also develop further skills in critiquing designs, assessing their efficiency as well effectiveness and also offer innovative alternative solutions.
This module gives you the opportunity to synthesise prior learning and develop your planned graduation trajectory through a self-selected, self-initiated and self-directed major project and complementary professional practice components including EDI (equality, diversity and inclusion) principles.
The direction of the project is a personal choice supported by appropriate staff to help you best synthesise your course experiences into a project that develops your working practice and professional profile to a quality and in a direction suited to your exit trajectory.
You will develop a body of coherent and detailed knowledge of project development, management and communication frameworks and methods in an appropriate professional sector.
The module equips you to critique design and construction processes and systems efficiency/effectiveness for social, economic and environmental sustainability and impact.
You will create and evaluate regenerative and inclusive design projects, and systematic reviews of case studies, informed by current understandings in the discipline and using various sustainability and life cycle assessment and analysis tools, concepts and software.
This module aims to equip you to perform appraisal of different building types and propose solutions to perform alterations, adaptations and retrofits to monitor, enhance or transform an existing condition or conditions.
This module equips you with the skills to understand the process of innovation in design and engineering contexts and be able to appreciate the way it impacts sectoral professional practice.
You will further develop research and written communication skills through the identification of evidence-based innovation opportunities
To find out more about this course please download the Architectural Technology BSc course specification (PDF) .
You'll be taught by an experienced teaching team who have a wide range of expertise and professional experience.
The team includes academics, professional practitioners, and technical staff.
Graduate teaching assistants or trained postgraduate research students may also have input into your teaching under the supervision of the module leader.
Most seminar groups have about 35 students.
You will gain knowledge and understanding of design, technology, practice and management through a dynamic mix of teaching, learning, and assessment strategies designed to actively engage you and enhance your learning.
We use practice-based learning approaches and hands-on activities so that you can apply your learning to your project work.
These approaches and interactive sessions include:
We have ongoing engagement with the industry through guest talks, live projects, visits and also via the staff teaching on the course.
This ensures the course is relevant and future-fit and supports students in building their networks.
Central to the curriculum is addressing current societal challenges in relation to people and the planet such as climate emergency, EDI, health, well-being & safety and ethical practice with a particular focus on UN Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs).
The curriculum is further informed by research and practice frameworks such as Climate Framework and Digital Built Britain.
These equip and empower our students to address those challenges and be agents of change for a better, more sustainable and inclusive world.
You will learn practical and analytical skills through hands-on activities such as drawing and making physical and virtual models in workshop, studio and computer lab sessions.
For each academic year the breakdown will be as follows:
This course is assessed by 100% coursework.
Your knowledge and understanding will be assessed using various assessment techniques, including interactive assignments like presentations, petcha-kucha sessions, posters and debates through to recorded presentations, reports, technical drawings, models (physical, digital or virtual), and reflective blogs/videos and portfolios of work.
We also use statutory reports and formal technical documentation as part of the assessment.
These tasks assess your understanding and ability to communicate complex ideas and also foster critical thinking and collaborative learning.
Ongoing formative feedback includes approaches such as design reviews, peer feedback, weekly individual tutor feedback, interim submissions etc.
Design Crit sessions with invited industry practitioners are used to enhance authenticity and to ensuring you are continuously guided and supported in your learning.
The first year of the course has a pass/fail outcome for each module using Student Observable Behaviours (SOBs).
This is supported by extensive ongoing formative feedback and supports core skills development.
As an Architectural Technology student you will have access to a wide range of industry-standard equipment, including:
The Architectural Technology degree is taught in our Grove building, the cutting edge £80 million home to our Art, Design and Media subjects.
This course prepares you to work in diverse positions in the construction sector, both public and private, as architectural technologists, architectural designers, architectural engineers, BIM modellers, BIM coordinators and site coordinators.
Graduates may become BIM managers, lead designers, information managers, project managers, consultants or set up their own architectural design practices.
Career options also include work within architectural practices, construction organisations, housing associations, local authorities, legislation and building authorities, central and local government, with property developers, processing and manufacturing industries, research and academia, energy sectors, conservation, conversion, maintenance, management, new build, restoration, retrofit or re-use projects.
Our dedicated lifetime career support, like our business start-up support programme and funding for entrepreneurs, has put us in the top 20 UK universities for business leaders and entrepreneurs – Business Money 2023 and a top 10 university for producing CEOs (Novuana, 2023).
"The department here has a wide range of national and international partnerships which students can make use for their placements."
Kinga Krassoy, BSc Architectural Technology
We make fair and aspirational offers because we want you to aim high, and we'll support you all the way.
If you don’t quite get the grades you hoped for, we’ll also look at more than your qualifications.
Our general entry requirements page outlines how we make offers where we have given a range (e.g.
BBB – BBC in A levels), and how you will be made an offer if you are studying a combination of qualifications (e.g.
BTEC and A level).
In both cases, we will base this on information you’ve provided on your application.
Find out how you can transfer .
Please apply via UCAS using the UCAS code W245
The fees below are for the 2026/27 academic year:
Full-time students: £17,200
Part-time students: £143 per taught credit
Middlesex University is the only place to offer this course in the UK and is unique in incorporating building information modelling (BIM) in all modules, which is a new approach to project management in the Architecture, Engineering and Construction industry.
The department here has a wide range of national and international partnerships which students can make use for their placements.
The four-day field trip to Wales has definitely been my highlight so far because it provided us with real life insights.
The university atmosphere is so diverse, and campus is so modern.
I am inspired in every way to make the most of my time here.
The facilities are also amazing; from 3D printing and laser cutting to prototyping workshops and using the latest software, we are constantly learning by doing.
There is a 24-hour library, catering for individual study needs.
I work and study at the same time at an architectural glass company in Hampstead, which compliments the content of the course.
After this, I would like to pursue an MSc in Building Information Modelling.
Kinga Krassoy - BSc Architectural Technology

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/research-degrees/art-and-design-research-degrees:
Create lasting solutions to real-world problems with ground-breaking research, utilising the expertise and facilities at our School of Art and Design
As a research student at Middlesex you will be in a working atmosphere where creative practice and creative thinking is encouraged and will be working with and learning from high profile academics in curating, fine art, communication arts, architecture and design.
You will have opportunities to gain work experience in curating, lecturing, events organisation and publishing with a range of organisations including the ICA, National Maritime Museum, Sir John Soane's Museum, Bloomsbury Publishing and Tate
We offer the following research degrees:
We offer an MA by Research, which involves writing and researching a thesis.
You'll need knowledge and understanding of existing research or scholarship in a chosen field – and its clear presentation in a dissertation.
The taught elements of this course are integral to the degree and your progression will be dependent on satisfactory progress.
This programme is offered full-time or part-time
You can study this degree in one of two ways:
The difference between an MPhil and PhD, in essence, relates to the contribution you make to existing knowledge on the research topic that you've selected.
A PhD contributes new knowledge beyond what's currently available.
An MPhil contributes new understanding of existing knowledge, by way of a critical review or evaluation.
The MPhil/PhD programme allows for two routes:
Please note that all of our PhD students initially enrol on an MPhil and then transfer to a PhD degree.
If you have any further questions regarding the MPhil and PhD programmes in the Faculty of Arts and Creative Industries, please contact Professor Vida Midgelow .
We offer an ArtsM and ArtsD qualification, designed for practitioners of advanced standing to allow them to create a piece of work at the cutting edge of practice – with a text of up to 10,000 words for ArtsM level and 20,000 words for Arts D level.
This is a validated programme and research training is integral to the programme.
This course is usually completed part-time.
The Doctor of Philosophy by Public Works, which allows a researcher who has made a significant contribution to knowledge through their own work to gain recognition by means of the award of PhD.
This course is offered full-time and part-time but is usually completed part-time.
You may need research methods or other training to write your context statement.
Academic support and guidance is constantly available, whether you work individually or as part of a team.
There are regular research tutorials, plus seminars and meetings with research students, staff and guest speakers.
Two supervisors are allocated to each research student.
Projects sometimes have three supervisors – particularly if they're interdisciplinary or joint visual/textual projects.
Your supervisors will act as personal tutors, helping you to clarify your initial objectives, structure your research and develop supplementary skills.
They also advise on subject reading, relevant taught courses, research seminars and workshops.
There may be a choice of supervisors but this will be discussed with you before you enrol.
It's important that both you and the School are happy about the supervisory arrangements – and that we feel we are able to supervise the research as well as it can be.
We won't accept a project if we don't feel that we have the appropriate expertise to offer in that area and we may have to turn down projects if the appropriate supervisors are fully committed with existing students.
The student/supervisor relationship is important, and normally discussions are necessary between you and the intended supervisors before the proposals are finally accepted – or otherwise.
Find out more about the research interests and areas of expertise our supervisors .
If you're working in partnership with an external organisation, you may be jointly supervised by academics from Middlesex University and the collaborating partner.
Where collaboration is involved, you should ensure that from the outset the responsibilities for provision of fees, equipment and any other resources are fully understood and accepted by the partners.
Please see below for the entry requirements for each of the research degrees we offer:
UK and international students are eligible to apply for this course.
To find out more about the qualifications we accept from your country please visit the relevant support in your country page .
International students who require a Tier 4 Student Visa to progress on a course at Middlesex University must apply for study on a full-time basis.
Part-time study
Changes to the Immigration Rules introduced in January 2018 now allows international applicants apply for Student route (formerly tier 4) visas for part-time postgraduate study (courses leading to a qualification at RQF level 7 or SCQF level 11 and above).
Tier 4 students studying part-time are subject to certain restrictions:
We also normally require Grade C GCSE or an equivalent qualification.
Visit our English language requirements page for a full list of accepted tests and qualifications.
If you don't meet our minimum English language requirements, we offer an intensive pre-sessional English course .
Please visit our help with your application page for more information and to apply online for this course using our Applicant Portal.
Some programmes also require an additional annual studio/bench/laboratory fee.
Funding or studentships for research degrees are limited, and most research degree students are expected to pay their own fees and subsistence costs.
Learn more

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/artificial-intelligence-and-data-science-bsc-honours:
Shape your future with a career in Artificial Intelligence and Data Science.
Study with experts and gain the skills to thrive in this ever-evolving, high-impact computing field.
Our Artificial Intelligence and Data Science BSc you will give real-world skills and practical experience from day one.
You will learn how AI and Data Science systems work, master the latest AI technologies from leading experts in the field, and gain skills and experience that will give you immediate entry into the job market, or further study.
With global demand for AI and Data Science professionals, this course equips you with everything you need to thrive in this exciting, high-demand sector.
Upon graduation, you'll be well versed in AI and data science theory and have practical experience necessary to enter the workplace or postgraduate study.
Graduate with a competitive edge and join the Artificial Intelligence and Data Science BSc at Middlesex.
Use cutting edge systems including large language models, neural networks, ontology management, and distributed processing
Our graduates have gone on to work for well-known organisations including KPMG, Brighthouse, Leapfrog and ITP Publishing
Enhance your employability with the option to take a year-long placement between your second and third years
In the first year, you will learn to program, and develop an understanding of the basics of AI, Data Science, and algorithms.
In the second year, you will become fully grounded in Data Science, machine learning, and AI, and learn to apply large language models to practical problems.
In the final year, you complete your understanding of AI, and specialize in two areas of AI in which you are interested.
This will include an individual project supervised by a member of the programme team.
You will gain an understanding of how to develop programs in Python.
Working with standard interactive development environments, you will design, implement, debug, and evaluate software.
You will develop a broad understanding of the intersecting domains of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science including the design, development, evaluation and deployment of models.
You will become familiar with typical Data Science workflows and the fundamental ideas of Artificial Intelligence.
You will be introduced to the concepts and notation of data structures and algorithms and their use in analysing problems and organising solutions.
You will be equipped with a range of methods to approach problems, to enable you to manipulate and analyse data in practical settings.
This module teaches you the fundamental knowledge and principles computer science theory, such as discrete mathematics, propositional logic and graph theory.
You will study the existing fundamental algorithms that are ubiquitous across computer networking and programming, gaining insights into their application in real-world computing systems.
In this module you will gain practical experience developing dynamic websites using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.
You'll learn how to store client-side data and get first-hand experience of web services and the server-side data storage, considering the needs of a wide and diverse range of stakeholders.
Modern businesses require making data-driven decisions requiring thoughtful data analysis.
You will gain the foundational understanding and skills for data analysis in an enterprise setting.
This includes a range of techniques for retrieving, organising, analysing and visualizing data as well as running simulations and training data-driven models to generate forecasts necessary for business decisions.
Special consideration will be given to the analysis of multidimensional data in the broad context of entire organisations.
You will learn about several important topics in ML and AI that remain critical for solving diverse real-world problems.
These include learning concepts and associative rules from data, Markov decision processes, reinforcement learning and randomized or evolutionary algorithms.
The module will also emphasize the notion of incomplete information, which characterizes learning and distinguishes it from ordinary optimization.
You will develop a theoretical understanding of the architecture of large language models (LLMs) and how they are trained.
You will gain practical experience with the customization and use of LLMs for different applications including prompt engineering, fine tuning, and the use of retrieval augmented generation (RAG) to control the output of a LLM.
The module aims to develop your employability skills by achieving the set of agreed learning outcomes using a Three Way Negotiated Learning Agreement.
The module develops a range of skills specific to the individual workplace.
This practical experience module provides the means for you to link academic work with the 'real world', facilitating the embedding of transferable and graduate skills necessary for future career paths and employment.
You will reflect upon areas of knowledge relevant to the placement learning experience and develop personal knowledge through a review of your learning, with the opportunity to enhance your self-expression, communication, self-reliance and co-operation.
You will round out your knowledge of basic Artificial Intelligence (AI), including long standing areas, such as rule based systems, search spaces and constraint satisfaction, and emerging technologies.
You will strengthen your ability to understand technologies as they emerge.
You will demonstrate how effectively you have consolidated your skills, knowledge, and experience from other modules by means of an individual project.
The project must incorporate a solution to an AI or Data Science problem or to a relevant theoretical research problem.
You will be introduced to a variety of new and commonly used biologically inspired algorithms and techniques so as to be able to solve a range of problems in AI and Data Science, including gradient-based algorithms, genetic algorithms, differential evolution, particle swarm optimization, firefly algorithm and other evolutionary algorithms.
You will gain the knowledge and practical Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning skills used in robotics.
You will cover different types of autonomous robots in a variety of fields and applications.
You will acquire the knowledge and practical skills of robot sensory processing, particularly vision, and the use of machine learning methods and algorithms, and how these are applied to real life autonomous robotic applications.
You will study different types of network and cyber threats to computer systems and networks, and learn the various measures needed to secure systems to counteract and mitigate against these threats.
You will gain appreciation and an understanding of the rigorous mathematics that plays a vital role in Data Science and AI.
You will gain the necessary background to access and contribute to technical research in the fields of AI and Data Science.
You will work with simulated spiking neural networks and networks emulated on neuromorphic computers to understand how brains work and use efficient parallel computation.
You will develop novel neural models, agents and machine learning systems that are at the leading edge of the field.
Professor of Artificial Intelligence
Associate Professor in Simulation & Modelling
Senior Lecturer in Computer Science
Senior Lecturer in Mathematics
Director of Programmes - Maths and Aviation UG & PG
Associate Professor in Informatics
You will gain knowledge and understanding through a combination of workshops, seminars, labs, directed reading, and guided independent and collaborative study.
Modules are led by the senior academics that have designed the programme and the module.
This course is mainly assessed through coursework including exams, tests, written assignments, presentations and group exercises.
The exact balance will depend on the modules you are taking.
Summative assessment is largely based around the development of artefacts, typically software.
Other forms of assessment include reports, in class assessments, portfolios, homework style questions, essays and demonstrations.
Laboratory sessions are mostly devoted to formative assessment including course work support.
A group project in the third year supports the development of complex systems by several collaborating students.
The final project is a dissertation typically based on an artefact the student has developed, and evaluation includes a viva with two academics.
Feedback is given informally throughout the programme via conversation and formally via the virtual learning environment.
We have specialist facilities for Computing courses, including the Ritterman labs, networking labs and dedicated lectures theatres.
You will be able to explore Virtual and Augmented Reality, Brain Computer Interfaces, as well as Robotics and Internet of Things Systems
Our entry requirements page outlines how we make offers where we have given a range (e.g.
BBB – BBC in A levels), and how we’ll make you an offer if you are studying a combination of qualifications (e.g.
We'll accept T Levels for entry onto our undergraduate degree courses (including our extended courses with a foundation year) with standard application of science requirements and GCSEs in line with UCAS tariff calculation.
We welcome applications from mature candidates.
You can apply now via UCAS using the code I400 or I401.
There are an incredible range of career opportunities in AI and data science.
While almost all industries now take advantage of artificial intelligence, AI work is concentrated in the large technology sector.
Jobs include data scientist, software developer, AI developers and engineers, machine learning engineers, business intelligence analysts, and many others.
Most medium-sized companies and all large companies are using Data Science and AI.
There are also a large number of start-ups, and these skills are used in the public sector and the voluntary sector.
Our graduates from the faculty of science and technology have gone on to work for well-known organisations including KPMG, Brighthouse, Leapfrog and ITP Publishing.
They have also gone onto further study with an MSc AI and Data science.
Start your exciting career and be part of the future of data science and AI,

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/get-in-touch/directions-london:
Our main campus in Hendon, north London, is located 10 minutes from the Northern line and Thameslink rail line, both of which take you to central London in under 30 minutes.
Close to the North Circular and A41, our prime location combines a spacious campus with excellent transport links.
Download our printable map
Plan your journey in London using the Transport for London journey planner .
We have made a commitment to a green transport policy, so we actively promote alternatives to using the car.
We encourage you to use public transport instead of coming by car.
Please note that there are no parking facilities on campus except for disabled blue badge holders and a limited number of pre-arranged visitors (including for conferences and events).
Parking is available for visitors to weekend open days, although spaces cannot be guaranteed.
Hendon campus is located on The Burroughs (A504).
From the M1:
Leave at Junction 2 for the A1 South.
Turn right at the second set of traffic lights onto the A504 (Finchley Lane).
Carry on past the next set of traffic lights on to Church Lane; the campus is ahead of you.
From the A406 North Circular Road:

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/get-in-touch/meet-us:
Whether you're starting to think about uni – or you’re ready to apply – book an Open Event to see our campus and top facilities, learn about our courses and get personalised advice about Middlesex.
We've put the most important info and advice for undergraduate students in one place including your subject, support and student life.
Take a look through in your own time and get to know us.
Our campus is open for pre-booked campus tours.
We will be running tours every other Wednesday afternoon.
Tours will be limited to groups of ten people and you may book up to one guest to accompany you.
Or, if you can't make it to campus, you can take a virtual tour and check our north London campus.
Book a campus tour
Take a virtual tour
Thinking about master's study?
Talk to our academics about your course options, meet students and learn about our career support.
Plus get advice on funding for your studies.
There's plenty of other ways to meet us as well like our international fairs and events.
You can meet experienced staff from the UK and all our regional offices around the world to find out more about a range of courses, entry requirements and give you a great insight into Middlesex.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/student-life/how-to-access-mymdx:
The MyMDX platform, available on desktop and as a mobile app, shows your student email, timetable, grades, and key information in one place.
The platform provides simple access to other systems and learning resources you’ll need throughout your journey with us.
Please note: MyMDX is only available to current students and staff.
If you’re joining the University, please look out for email instructions with your login information.
You can download MyMDX via the Apple iOS App Store or the Android Google Play Store.
You can also access the platform online at https://mymdx.mdx.ac.uk
To log in to MyMDX go to: https://mymdx.mdx.ac.uk - Select Student/Staff as your profile.
You will need to enter your university email address (e.g.
JK123@live.mdx.
ac.uk) followed by your password.
For returning students this will be the password you used to log into the University network.
You can find your IT user ID on the back of your Student ID Card e.g.: JK123
To log out from MyMDX – click on the drop-down arrow from top right of the screen.
For the security of your information, it is very important that you ensure you log out of MyMDX and close your browser.
You may be experiencing login issues with the MyMDX app on your mobile device.
If you're unable to login, please view MyMDX in a browser on your mobile device or desktop by visiting: mymdx.mdx.ac.uk
If you are having issues accessing the MyMDX app please follow this link to MyMdx select “Student login Support” click on the tile and start a live chat with a UniHelp advisor for support with logging in.
You can also contact UniHelp, face-to-face on campus or by completing an online form .
To sign into MyMDX for the first time, you need to register for Two-Factor Authentication (2FA).
2FA provides an added layer of security on top of your username and password when you access online university resources – it’s easy to use and provides increased protection against cyber-attacks.
If you’re a new student having trouble, read the FAQs further down the page.
You must first register a minimum of two security methods, we recommend one of the following options:
We encourage you to register as many security methods as you can.
The full list of available methods is:
You’ll see a window appear stating ‘More Information required’ or you may even see a ‘ Skip for now (14 days until this is required) ’ dialogue – Click Next to begin.
if you’re not prompted, visit the Microsoft Signin page or the Microsoft security info page to get started.
You must download and install the Microsoft Authenticator app or if you don’t want to use an authenticator app.
choose, 'I want to set up a different method' (located at the bottom left of the dialogue box).
Make sure to install the latest version of the Microsoft Authenticator app, based on your operating system:
Note: If you're not currently on your mobile device, you can still get the Microsoft Authenticator app by sending yourself a download link from the Microsoft Authenticator page .
By registering a phone number, the phone number will be used to receive a call from Microsoft's automated line.
You’ll need to either press the # key or the £ key, on your mobile keypad.
Note: If you’re prompted to press the £ key on your keypad - press the # key.
Note: You can only get to email as an option if you choose phone as your first option.
Answer security questions created by your administrator for your organisation.
If you choose this option, you’ll need to answer 5 security questions as a backup method of 2FA.
The Authy app can be installed as a desktop/laptop program for Windows and MacOS; this is useful if you don’t have access to a smartphone.
Smartphone and desktop app - The Authy app can be installed as a desktop/laptop program for Windows and macOS; this is useful if you don’t have access to a smartphone.
You’ll be able to choose a primary authentication method when registering, which you can change or update at any time.
Mobile Notification
(Microsoft Authenticator Required)
Verification Code
You’ll be asked to set up a backup authentication method.
We recommend you use your phone as a backup, to help you access your account in case you forget or lose your mobile device.
We encourage you to use your personal device for 2FA.
You will receive an automated call instantly from Microsoft.
This is the American term for the “hash” (#) key.
Middlesex University works hard to ensure online student services are available 24/7 and that any disruption for essential maintenance is kept to a minimum and normal service is resumed as soon as possible.
However, there may occasionally be some disruption as we carry out essential maintenance or introduce improvements.
If this happens, we’ll let you know as soon as possible on the MyMDX system status page and through other communication channels.
Email/OneDrive - MDX Email
Alternatively you may also access your emails by setting them up on your Android or Apple IOS mobile device.
Personal eTextbooks (Kortext) - London students only:
Accessing your Personal eTextbooks (Kortext):
If you’re still experiencing problems, contact UniHelp by submiting an online enquiry
Accessing the library e-resources Library e-resources (journals, eBooks, databases etc.) can be accessed using the direct links below.
Accessing the library e-resources
Library e-resources (journals, eBooks, databases etc.) can be accessed using the direct links:

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/alumni:
Your relationship with Middlesex doesn't come to an end when you finish studying with us.
You can register or update your details for our newsletter and follow us on social media to stay in touch.
When you sign up, you'll join over 285,000 graduates around the world who support and inspire each other in their lives.
"I learnt a lot at Middlesex that was really useful when I first started trying to find work.
It's also about contacts and getting that first 'in'.
I spent the first few years working behind the scenes and looking for opportunities to get on screen.”
Faye Barker, ITV News presenter, Drama and Performing Arts BA
Volunteer with Middlesex and you’ll help to enhance the student experience by sharing your knowledge and skills.
You’ll also have the opportunity to build your confidence, develop your leadership skills and grow your own professional and social networks.
No matter where you are in the world or how much time you can give, let us know how you would like to get involved .
You can also make a single or regular financial donation to support our ongoing work.
Donations can help other students follow in your footsteps in achieving their career goals and other aspirations.
As well as allowing us to continually update facilities and fund research, you can also invest into our crowdfunding platform to support our student staff entrepreneurs.
Middlesex University has charitable status, which means we are eligible for Gift Aid from UK residents.
We’d love to hear from you after you graduate.
Share your stories with us or find out how you can give back through mentoring, becoming an ambassador or even providing work experience for current students.
You can:
Use our contact form
Share your story through our 'A day in the life of...' series
Contact us for further enquiries
On LinkedIn | On Facebook
View our privacy policy
Your lifelong membership card gives you continued access to our employability service, our library and gym, as well as exclusive invites to industry networking events.
We’re happy to provide you with replacement certificates, transcripts, and academic referrals
Our branded keepsakes mean that you'll always remember us and they make great gifts too.
Continue to seek support with your professional goals after graduation, to ensure that you're prepared for your future.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/get-in-touch/press-office:
We're here to help you find experts and student case studies and to facilitate interviews or commentary about higher education policy.
Find out more about how we work with journalists and media at Middlesex University.
PR Manager Franca Tranza Telephone: 020 8411 4316 Mobile: 07765 273812 Email: f.tranza@mdx.ac.uk
PR Officer Paul Harper Telephone: 020 8411 3211 Mobile: 07581 031088 Email: p.n.harper@mdx.ac.uk
PR Officer Soraya Madell Mobile: 07770 871059 Email: S.Madell@mdx.ac.uk
PR Officer Josh Neicho Telephone: 020 8411 4505 Mobile: 07415 877375 Email: j.d.neicho@mdx.ac.uk
The above landlines are diverted to mobiles during out of hours.
General press contact Email: pressoffice@mdx.ac.uk
For non-media questions, contact +44 (0)20 8411 5000
See our latest news stories.
Contact pressoffice@mdx.ac.uk to receive all of our press releases and news stories as they are released.
Ask us if you would like to film here about something that is relevant to our work for commercial projects and news.
Tom Fry Email: t.fry@mdx.ac.uk
Our research is aligned to three integrating themes to focus our work on a world that's fairer, healthier and more sustainable.
Our staff are experts across different specialists areas and they are happy to talk to the media.
Find out more about our three themes and key contacts below.
We work to improve healthcare to create equal opportunities for everyone to live healthy and fulfilling lives.
We put our global knowledge into action to promote wellbeing across mental, physical and social health in all parts of society.
Dr Lisa Marzano is the Theme Director for Equity and improvements in health and wellbeing.
Find out more about this theme
We believe that entrepreneurship, culture and creativity can build a more equal, caring and prosperous society that enriches the lives of individuals and communities across the world.
Professor Kurt Barling is the Theme Director for Inclusive socio-economic development and enriching lives through culture.
We work with people around the world so they can make their communities more sustainable and fairer while protecting our planet.
Globally, we use our expertise to influence economic, social and environmental policy and practice in response to urgent challenges.
Dr Johan Siebers is the Theme Director for Sustainability of communities and the environ­ment.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/student-life/london-campus-life/international:
With 122 nationalities represented on our campus, Middlesex is one of the world's most international universities.
When you study with us, you'll live and learn with people from all different cultures and backgrounds.
You'll join a global community that starts in London and reaches right across the world.
Talk with one of our advisors in 19 locations around the world, from Hong Kong to Mumbai.
They'll help with your application, funding, move to London, visas and more.
Moving to a new country can seem like a big deal so we make sure you have all the advice and support you need.
"I've always felt welcome here.
You're part of an international community and London is a great place to be a student because of networking opportunities and job opportunities." Michael from Poland, BA Banking and Finance
We'll give you a special welcome before Freshers’ Week.
And you'll get a guided tour of the University and the city, help with registration, and opportunities to meet other students and join in social activities .
We'll tell you everything you need to know about London life, from how to open a bank account to how to register with a doctor.
We can also pair you up with a 'buddy'.
That's a second or third year student who can show you around and help you out.
"I have met people from all ethnicities and walks of life, and learned about their heritage and cultures.
It's fascinating, and it makes it so easy to fit in." Mariam Humed -  BA Sociology with Criminology

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/student-life/commuting:
You can save money, stay close to friends and relatives, look after your children or other family members, and still have an amazing Middlesex experience.
Did you know that up to a third of students may choose to live at home while studying at university?
This is according to new research by University College London which shows that rising living costs and family needs are affecting school leavers.
If you choose to live at home, we'll fully support you and help you get the most out of uni life.
Our campus is a great place to study, meet new people, hang out, eat, play sports and join in all the social stuff - clubs, societies, gigs, balls and more.
There’s lots to explore locally in Hendon and central London is just a 20-minute train ride away.
"I live at home.
You save a lot of money and the location is so perfect, it’s never been an issue for me.
Everything has been a plus, plus, plus for me." Ireena, LLB Law
"Home study is easy for me as the library is largely accessible digitally.
Middlesex also offer support via Skype and email that has been invaluable to me during my placements." Bronwyn, BSc Nursing (Mental Health)
"My university’s location is just near from my home which is wonderful.
I can ride bus for 20 minutes and be there on time.
Students can also access trains and buses and there are parking areas inside the uni also." Reycelie Angel, BSc Biomedical Science BSc (Hons)
There's a welcoming student community on our north London campus.
By spending time in our social spaces, you'll meet new people who commute like you as well as students who live close to uni.
Experience new things together by getting involved in clubs and societies on campus and the busy calendar of events organised by the Students' Union.
Show your new friends around your favourite parts of London – and further away — when you feel like going off campus.
We’re ten minutes from the Northern line and Thameslink rail line
Tubes run 24 hours a day on weekends and night buses run all week so there's never a reason to miss out on something happening on campus.
Travel home with another student going the same way
This totally depends on which course you choose, as contact hours (the hours you actually spend in lectures, seminars, labs etc), vary greatly between courses.
When you’re not in classes, you’ll spend the rest of the time doing independent study, either using our library, online resources or at home.
Depending on your course, you will have some flexibility as to when you have to be on campus and when you can stay at home to study.
Our campus is mainly on one site in Hendon, north London, so you'll get to know everywhere quite quickly.
And we have excellent public transport links to the rest of London, the UK and beyond.
We're a short walk from Hendon Central Underground Station in Zone 3, the railway station and 24-hour buses.
There are direct links to Luton, St Albans, southwest and northwest London.
Commuting to Middlesex University is easy: we're close to surrounding areas of London such as Colindale, Cricklewood, Willesden, Harrow and Finchley and our campus is easily reachable from other parts of London.
You can find the directions to Middlesex campus here.
Find out more about our libraries, IT and study spaces .

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/private-rented-accommodation:
Many of our students choose to live in private rented accommodation when they're studying.
You'll be more independent than in a hall of residence and you'll have the chance to explore areas outside campus.
Start your search as early as possible to make sure you have plenty of choice.
The student pad website is an excellent place to start your accommodation search.
It features up-to-date details of rented accommodation, including landlords' contact details, details of rent and other relevant information.
The website is updated all year round, so even if term has started, it is always worth having a look at the details posted here.
The site also includes a message board facility, allowing you to see notices posted by other students about housing.
Visit Middlesex Student Pad .
We suggest you confirm all the details shown on the website with the owner of any accommodation before accepting a room and signing a lease.
We also run a lively Facebook page , where students often post information about available rooms.
For further information, please read our How to Rent Guide (PDF) .
Email us or call +44 (0)20 8411 6121.
There are plenty of places available to rent near campus and many different options to consider with private rented accommodation.
This usually refers to renting a room in a house with a live-in landlord.
Use of shared areas, for example, kitchens, lounges, toilets, or outside spaces, will be by informal agreement.
You will usually have to pay a deposit to ensure you adhere to the terms and conditions of your tenancy agreement
Many of our mature students choose this option because it can suit people who prefer a quieter lifestyle.
You will typically have to sign a contract for a minimum of six months before moving into a property, and will usually have to pay a non-refundable cash deposit.
If you need short-stay accommodation there are hotels, guesthouses, and bed and breakfast accommodation for a range of budgets across north London.
For information and contact details, download our short stay accommodation list .
Most student accommodation is for single people or groups of friends (single rooms in shared accommodation).
If you have a family, you may want to use local letting agents to help you in your search for suitable rented accommodation.
You can find a list of local letting agents on Middlesexstudentpad .
You may also wish to contact the Nansen housing association that provides accommodation for overseas postgraduate students and their families, visit the Nansen Village website .
Searching the many UK property search websites will also be very useful.
Depending on the area, the facilities available, and the general standard of accommodation, average rents vary between £180-250 per week.
Unless you're living in lodgings, bills for gas, electricity and water are unlikely to be included, so you will be expected to pay these separately.
As a full-time student, you may not have to pay council tax.
Insurance to cover your personal possessions is advisable wherever you are living.
You might also be required to provide the details of your UK guarantor if you are looking to rent out for the first time or your income does not exceed a specific amount.
If you require a UK guarantor, we recommend applying for the Housing Hand Guarantor Service .
For Local landlords, estate and letting agents

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/what-to-know-about-halls:
If you have an offer to study with us, you can can apply for accommodation as soon as applications open in April for courses starting in September.
If your course starts in January, you can apply in November.
Get in touch with our Disability Support team if you need different kinds of support with your accommodation.
They’ll put together a support plan for you and make a recommendation to the Accommodation team.
If you have an offer to study with us, you can apply for accommodation when the applications process opens in April.
You will need your student number, which can be found on any correspondence from Middlesex University's admissions office.
If you are an International student, you will apply online or through your regional office who offered you a place on a course.
There is no set deadline but bear in the mind following:
If you're starting in the Autumn and would like to be close to campus, apply for your accommodation as soon as you can, from April onwards, even if you’re waiting for final details about how your course will be taught.
That's your best chance of getting the accommodation you want.
We do prioritise accommodation for students starting in the Autumn so we may have a limited vacancies in January.
All our halls are off campus, but within easy reach on foot or public transport.
You can find information on transport links and advice about the local area on each of the hall pages.
Get in touch with our Disability and Dyslexia team .
They’ll listen to your requirements and put together a plan with you.
Follow-up with our accommodation team on +44 (0)20 8411 6121 or send an email .
Please contact the accommodation team on +44 (0)20 8411 6121 or send an email .
If you're on one of the Nursing programmes, we may be able to offer you a shorter and more flexible tenancy agreement to match your placement needs.
To arrange this, contact the accommodation team on +44 (0)20 8411 6121 or send an email .
We offer fixed-term contracts which run for 40 weeks.
Prices vary for each hall, ranging from £204 - £230.30 per week.
See the individual halls pages in this section of the website for more details.
You don’t need to pay a deposit when you apply for accommodation.
When you accept an offer of accommodation, we will need a £300 advanced rent payment, which you can pay online.
This goes towards your first rent instalment.
The following credit or debit cards are accepted: Maestro, Switch, Visa Credit, MasterCard, Visa Debit (Delta) and Solo.
We offer a prompt payment discount of 2% to all students who have a 40 week contract, from September to June, and you must pay your full rent for the whole contract period by the payment deadline.
Rent should be paid in two or three instalments as detailed in the Accommodation Offer letter and must be paid on or before those dates.
If you are applying for a place for a main intake period (September or January), your contract will begin on the main intake arrival date.
If you are applying at any other time of year, your contract start date will be your individual move-in date, which will be arranged for you.
If you need to cancel the room before the start of term, and there’s enough time for another student to take it, then we’ll refund any money you’ve paid.
All contracts are set for a specified period of time.
All students should seriously consider whether they wish to stay for the full term of the contract before signing.
Check your Acceptance Offer letter, ask at your local accommodation office, or contact the Accommodation Team to find out the exact date.
It may be possible to extend your contract at certain times of the year.
If you wish to do this, please contact the Accommodation Team who can advise you if this is possible.
If you have any questions, you can:
We cannot guarantee a room in the halls , but if you are a 1 st Year full time undergraduate and you apply early you will have the best chance of securing a room.
Applications open in April for courses starting in September.
Find out more about our halls of residence .
You can visit a room on one of the tours at our open days or we have a video tour of each one of our halls on their pages.
If you would like to book a private viewing, call our Accommodation Team on +44 (0)20 8411 6121 or send an email .
You can tell us if you would like a particular room or location (for example, not on the ground floor or single-gender flat) or even if you would like to be with a particular person.
We will do our best to help but cannot guarantee it.
No, all halls are self-catering.
There are lots of places to buy food on campus, plus supermarkets and shops in your local area.
Yes, all our halls are for male and female students.
No, all our halls are of single occupancy only.
You can find more information about our private rented accommodation .
All rooms are non-smoking; there are designated smoking areas outside the hall.
Each bedroom has a bed, wardrobe, desk, bedside cabinet (most halls), litter bin, and storage space.
There is also an internet access point.
Our tenancy agreements typically only run from September to June (40 weeks).
Please note that you are also welcome to enquire about extending your stay at these halls for the summer, but we cannot guarantee that we can always honour such requests.
No, your room is yours for the whole duration of your contract.
First-year students get priority when applying for accommodation .
Returning students are still welcome to apply and join the waiting list should any room become available after all first-year students have been offered one.
However, we encourage all returning students to make alternative living arrangements as it is unlikely many rooms will become available to them.
This will depend on your student status.
You will need to bring bedding, towels, cutlery, crockery, and anything else you feel that you may need during your stay such as a phone or laptop charger, hairdryer, personal toiletries, food, and drink basics.
You can collect your keys from your local accommodation office.
You will need to have a copy of your contract, photo ID (for example, a passport), and a completed residence form with a photograph before signing for your keys.
You can only move in early if this has been arranged and agreed with the Accommodation Team.
Students are, however, normally permitted to move into halls from the Monday before the contract actually starts (this is chargeable at the daily rate).
Use of the internet in all halls of residence is included in the rent.
Rooms do not come with landlines; the points provided are for network access only.
In most halls that have radiators as opposed to individual electric heaters, the heating will go off late at night.
All boilers will be switched off at some point during the summer months.
Security officers are on duty every day Monday to Friday from 5 pm - 9 am, and from 5 pm on Friday night until 9 am on the following Monday.
The security officers are there for such things as excessive noise or emergencies.
There isn't student parking at any of our halls, except for blue badge holding students.
You are allowed to have guests during the day and overnight.
You should always make sure to sign them in at reception and be considerate of your flatmates.
You will not be able to change your room for the first few weeks of your tenancy.
However, you will be able to fill out a room or hall move request form at the reception, and you will be notified by the management or the Accommodation Team should a suitable room become available.
You will then be able to continue living in your existing room or move to a new one.
Another room or hall move request can then be made again at any point during your tenancy but is subject to room availability.
You are welcome to move out of your room at any time, but you would be liable for your rent until the end of your tenancy agreement.
Should we find another student to replace you in your room and take over your tenancy agreement, we would let you know and update your rent charges accordingly, but keep in mind that this is not guaranteed and would depend on the demand at the time.
Students withdrawing from their studies would be able to terminate their agreement earlier, as per the Terms and Conditions.
If you withdraw or interrupt your academic program and leave the University or associated college, you must also leave your room in halls by giving four weeks' notice of your intention to leave.
You must advise the Accommodation Team in writing of your decision and enclose a copy of the withdrawal/interruption of studies form issued to you by your student office.
Your notification should include the date by which you will be leaving halls and returning your keys.
The month's notice will begin on the day that your notification is received.
If you move out before the end date of the month's notice period, we will make every effort to find a replacement for the room, but it is possible that you will be liable for the rent for the full four weeks.
You can call security and tell them the noise is disturbing you, and tell them where it is coming from.
They will then ask the residents to be quieter/turn the music down.
Your Hall Office will then follow the complaint up in the morning.
If you live in halls of residence and use a device (desktop, laptop, tablet, mobile phone, etc) to watch/record TV in your own room, you need your own separate TV Licence.
A licence is needed if you are watching or recording television programs at the same time as they are being shown on TV.
This is true no matter what device you're watching on and no matter how you're receiving the programs (including terrestrial, satellite, cable, or digital television channels).
For further information and to buy a TV licence, visit the TV Licensing for Students website or call TV Licensing on 0300 555 0286.
Anyone without a valid TV Licence who watches or records television programs as described above risks prosecution and a fine of up to £1,000.
A colour TV Licence currently costs £174.50, and a black and white licence is £58.50.
To buy a TV licence, purchase online at the TV Licensing for Students website or call 0300 555 0286.
If you are moving back home for the summer from university and no longer need a TV Licence over the holidays, and there are three full calendar months before your licence expires, you are entitled to a refund for the unused, quarter of your licence.
You will need to ensure you buy a licence early on, by the end of September/ early October, in order to allow enough time at the end of the academic year to qualify for a refund.
If you wish to arrange a refund, please visit TV Licensing for Students or call TV Licensing on 0300 555 0286.
If you'd like more information, head to the FAQs on the TV Licensing for Students website.
To request a Status Letter, please visit the Letters and Forms page on the MyMDX app.
International students must ensure that their home address is registered on the university database before ordering this letter.
At least one of the major high street banks can be found near each hall of residence.
You will need proof of your current address and your home address, as well as another form of identification (for example, a passport).
The requirements can differ so it is best to go in and see what they require.
The Accommodation team can provide reference letters for estate agents.
There are a number of hotels and B&Bs in and around Hendon.
If you are looking for temporary or overnight accommodation nearby, try the following links:
Alternatively, you can download our short stay accommodation list .
Find all important documents you will need in to make an application and accept an offer of accommodation.
Our specialist student services are here to support you with everything staying healthy to optimizing your happiness.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/usher-hall:
Live in a quiet residential area, opposite our bustling campus.
Enjoy the best of both worlds.
Usher hall has good-sized modern student rooms.
There are communal areas with comfy sofas and dining tables.
It's a perfect mix for study, relaxation and socializing – with activities organised by the residents' assistants who live on site.
"My experience in Usher Hall is going wonderfully.
The University's facilities are nearby, and the atmosphere is positive and warm.
Above all, I’ve always felt safe." Padma Ricca, BEng Biomedical Engineering International student from Italy
Accommodation
182 ensuite rooms split between two blocks.
Costs
Ensuite rooms at Usher Hall cost £230.23 per week.
Rent is paid in two termly instalments.
Duration
Contracts run for 40 weeks, from the 15th of September 2025 until the 22nd of June 2026.
Rooms
Each ensuite room is furnished with a single bed, a spacious study desk, a wardrobe, wall storage for personal belongings, and an individual ensuite bathroom.
Communal areas
Designated kitchens and common rooms are shared between residents on the same corridor.
Security
The hall team is available at reception from 9am to 5pm, Monday to Friday, to assist with queries and maintenance issues.
There are security guards on site 5pm to 9am weekdays and 24/7 during weekends.
Services
Usher Hall is managed by Southern Housing, a housing association that specialises in student accommodation.
Middlesex University is committed to providing a friendly, safe, student-focused environment, and we’ve signed up to national codes of standards for accommodation to ensure this.
For Usher Hall, Southern Housing has also signed up to the ANUK code .
Southern Housing has partnered with Middlesex University to offer one successful applicant who has made a difference to society, the opportunity to have their accommodation fees paid for one academic year (40 weeks) in Platt Hall, Writtle House, or Usher Hall.
For more about Study4Success .
Duvet, pillows, bed cover/sheets, alarm clock, coat hangers, laundry basket
Towels, washbag, toiletries, toilet cleaner, bleach, toilet brush, toilet rolls, plasters
Laptop or computer, mobile phone, headphones, USB memory stick, device chargers, plug converters
It's the best hall for easy access to the campus facilities such as the Fitness Pod, the Sheppard Library, and MDX House.
And it's just a 12-minute walk to Hendon and Hendon Central stations, from where you can reach central London in 20 minutes using the Northern line or Thameslink trains.
View on Google Maps .
We're here to help you find accommodation whilst you study with us, either in halls or in the private rented sector.
Call +44 (0)20 8411 6121 or email us .
You can apply for accommodation in our halls of residence once you have accepted your place to study with us.
From finding accommodation to thriving on a budget, we’ve got you.
Live your best uni life!

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/platt-hall:
You'll live in a buzzing community with loads of facilities close by.
Platt Hall is approximately five-minutes' walk to Colindale tube station and within 20-minutes' walk from our Hendon campus.
It's our largest student hall with a lively student community, close to local parks and StoneX Stadium, home to our West Stand state-of-the-art nursing facilities and the local rugby team Saracens.
Platt Hall shares the communal TV lounge and study rooms located at Writtle House (which is next door), and you'll have access to all the private green space around the buildings too.
Our residents' assistants will also organise social and sports events.
"I would love to use this opportunity to say am really impressed with the university's hostel accommodation, it’s a home away from home." Sandra O Olorundare, MA International Relations International student from Nigeria
540 ensuite rooms in flats of six.
£219.59 per week.
Each ensuite room has a single bed, a spacious study desk, a wardrobe, wall storage for personal belongings, and an ensuite bathroom.
Designated kitchens are shared between flat residents.
Communal areas include TV lounge and study room.
The hall team is available at reception from 9am to 5pm, Monday to Friday, to help with queries and maintenance issues.
Platt Hall is managed by Southern Housing, a housing association that specialises in student accommodation.
For Platt Hall, Southern Housing has also signed up to the ANUK code .
Transport for London are carrying out work at Colindale station during 2024.
This may impact any journey into London and further afield.
For more information view Transport for London .
Hi, I'm Tia, a third -year sports rehabilitation student, and I am here at Platte Halls to see my friend Shania.
She's going to take us around and give us a little talk.
Hi!
I actually am a first- year sociology student and welcome to my room.
This here is where I sleep, it's a very comfortable bed.
They give you a desk for your room, this is why I keep my TV, is a really big thing to me.
This originally is supposed to be a study area, but I prefer to study in a common room I like that though, because you separate your study from your state.
Honestly, it does be wonderful.
Yeah.
The wardrobe.
What do we have in here?
I have a lot of clothes.
As you can see, there's a little storage space.
Yeah, so much storage in this room.
Really good because I love clothes and I really love fashion.
But this side, we also have the bathroom.
In the bath room...
Wait, look how big the mirror is.
It's huge mirror.
This is where I do my makeup.
So this is the toilet.
I've got a cute little sticker on there.
That's how it is!
The shower.
It is actually very spacious, that's fantastic.
The favourite things in my room are my LED lights, they go all the way around my room.
Mr Bear here and my little picture frame that my friend made me.
One more thing, it's my galaxy light.
It's very nice, and it makes the place really homey as well.
I share this kitchen with five other people, let's go in.
Hi guys!
So this is the kitchen.
As soon as you walk in, what you see is the fridge.
We have a smaller fridge here which allows all of us to have our own little section.
We also got a cabinet, so many cabinets.
Combination gives us a toaster, a kettle, a microwave, and a cook arm.
What's your favourite like uni snack or meal?
My favourite.
Uni meal.
We need fish minkers.
I like fish minks a lot.
This is where me and my family normally have dinner sometimes, they're cut chopped and made in here together.
Things that they give us to clean our room, they gave us the vacuum here.
We've also a paneling brush and a room over here, this is the bigger common room make for flat residents.
Right here you have this huge TV, people have got some Netflix on here, you can play games, feed cards.
The big speed card is really good and really loud and the bass is awesome, I love these things out there.
Then here we have the pool table, but I can't play pool at school.
I tried to in the lookout.
It's nice that you've got the indoor setting and outdoor setting.
This is my first spaceship.
This a laundry room, there's a lot of washing machines and dryers as well.
That's the good thing because then you'd have to dry your clothes in your room.
Each block has their own respective mailbox, it's actually separated to each section where they get muddled up.
What about the shopping?
So where do you get your food?
We have a lot available to us, as do our Morrisons, Tesco, things we have to ask.
Wow, so many.
Honestly.
As for like food and things like that, we've got Chinese, Indian, Mexican, if you want to hang out with your friends, get coffee.
Costas literally down the road.
What would be your favourite thing about living in Platt?
I think it would the green spaces that are available for us but if it is behind me we have ventures as well.
there, front me over there we have benches.
It's really nice because you can get to sit down with your friends and catch up.
So that's it guys, Shania any last advice and top tips?
Top tip number one would be to definitely go into accommodation for your first year, it allows you to make friends, socialise more.
Top tip two would to be make it your back year.
Make it cosy, make a summer you want to relax and be in.
Thank you so much Shaniya.
You're welcome.
Bye from Blackhall!
Bye!
Situated in a quite residential area of Colindale, North London, Platt Hall is a short commute into Central London on the Northern line.
Address: Writtle House, Chancellor Place, Colindale, London.
NW9 5HA View on Google Maps .

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/writtle-house:
Live in a historic building reserved for mature and postgraduate students.
Established in 1917, Writtle House was first known as the London Aerodrome Hotel and then renamed The Royal Air Force East Camp Officers' Mess.
Back then, it used to be a short-stay hotel for people flying from the now RAF Museum, and it was sometimes even used by the Royal Family!
Now, it offers a green and quiet living environment within walking distance of campus.
You'll be close to local parks and the StoneX Stadium, home to our West Stand state-of-the art nursing and midwifery training facilities and the local rugby team, Saracens.
"I have found it to be an incredibly clean, safe and friendly environment.
The front of house staff as well as Resident Assistants have made the stay much more enjoyable as have been happy to help with any problem I have had." Jack Simm, BA Product Design UK student
26 standard rooms and 10 double rooms split between six flats.
Standard rooms at Writtle House cost £203.98 per week, whilst double rooms cost £210.42 per week.
Each room is furnished with a spacious study desk, a wardrobe, and wall storage for personal belongings.
The standard rooms have a single bed and the double rooms have a double bed.
Designated kitchens and bathrooms are shared between flat residents.
The hall team is available at reception from 9am to 5pm, Monday to Friday, to help with questions and maintenance issues.
Writtle House is managed by Southern Housing, a housing association that specialises in student accommodation.
For Writtle House, Southern Housing has also signed up to the ANUK code .
Living in student halls | Writtle House | Middlesex University.mp4
⏰Fri, 04/05 10:50AM · 4mins
Hey guys, today's weather is really rainy, as you can tell, but I'm here outside Rital House and I'm going to visit my friend Marta, she's from Portugal and a second year student, BA graphic design.
So she's going to show us around the accommodation and what living in Rital House is like.
Rital House is a bit more for mature students, it's a bit quieter and there are less rooms in the building.
Hey, how are you?
Nice to have you here.
Should you come in?
Yeah, let's go.
If you just sit down the hall there, we also have a sort of common room where we have a pool table and a TV.
Right, here's the study room here in Rital.
This is where we all come out and there are assignments and a lot of late -night study sessions.
This is my flat and I share eight other things out.
Here is my room.
came with the wardrobe, the bed, this little shelf, the desk and the chair and then I just try to bring in my own things like the bedding, the posters, and my books to make it feel more like my room.
In here, it's just where I keep my jackets, my bags, and the things that I use the most.
Here is a little board that I usually have posted with the things I have to do.
Thank god I don't have that much to do right now.
This is a project for uni.
This is also an experiment I did this year.
Total apocalypse.
It's not.
Yeah, that's decent.
I mean, this is actually the best it looks.
It's very tidy right now with all the size organization.
It's not like this all the time.
So these are my jackets.
They're called Eenie, Meenie, Miney and Moe.
So there's the second tiny hallway where there are three more bedrooms.
So this is the second shower room and I share both the showers and both the bathrooms with eight other people.
And you might think that was a lot but actually we have really different schedules and since the showers are separate from the bathrooms we actually get along really well with it.
There's no problems at all.
I'm hungry.
I never looked but I feel like it's pretty good since there's Miney who's living here.
We actually have a pretty big pitch upgrade to a lot of the people that live here, and we have quite a lot of reaches and freezers, so we've never really had problems with space.
What side of the camera left?
Don't get me!
So that's all to the room tour, I hope you enjoyed watching it, yeah I hope you liked the little room tour.
See you!
Writtle House is a 20-minute walk from our Hendon campus.
And it's just a 5-minute walk from Colindale tube station which will take you into central London in under 20 minutes on the Northern line.
Address: Writtle House, Chancellor Pl, London NW9 5HA View on Google Maps .

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/student-life/london-campus-life/social-spaces:
Getting social at Middlesex University
From Fresher's week and throughout the year there's lots going on; events, clubs and societies, plus there are places to eat, drink, socialise and play sports.
As well as green spaces for quiet walks and picnics.
"Middlesex University is awesome!
The student life here is off the charts.
There are so many cool clubs, societies, and events happening all the time.
You'll never be bored, trust me!"
Meet up for a meal, a big night out, or just chill at MDX House.
There's the Cube Lounge Bar, pool tables, a Greggs and a Tortilla outlet serving great food including halal, vegan and vegetarian options.
Grab a coffee from Costa, a sandwich or healthy meal from the hot counter and chat with friends.
The Rickett Quadrangle, or Quad, is a bright and open space where you can take some time out.
There's always an amazing exhibition, art installation or live performance to check out at the creative space in the Grove Atrium.
We are lucky to have plenty of green spaces for reflection or relaxing with friends.
This is a multi-purpose activity, learning and wellbeing space for the University which was designed by Architectural Technology students working with industry professionals.
It is used for teaching, and events and as a wellbeing space including yoga classes.
Although it's a study space you will often run into your friends and classmates at the library.
Our sports and wellness at Middlesex includes dozens of sports teams, a gym, a bouldering wall, aerial hoops, calming yoga classes, weightlifting, trampolining, Muay Thai boxing and a lot more.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/student-life/life-on-campus/clubs-and-societies:
Discover a vibrant community of over 85 student groups and connect with like-minded individuals who share your interests, passions, and backgrounds.
Or start your own group.
Whether you have a fascinating hobby to share, a burning interest to discuss, or a desire to support a worthy cause and make a positive impact – joining a student group is the answer.
You can also connect with people who share your culture or build your academic network and gain real-world experience.
In a student group, you'll have the chance to attend meet-up events, participate in impactful campaigns, march for important causes, celebrate together, and engage in meaningful volunteer work.
Join us in making a difference, finding like-minded individuals, and creating unforgettable memories.
"I’m really involved in the criminology and sociology society.
They hold events like workshops and guest lectures.
Plus I get to apply what I've learned in my course to real-life cases." Malyun, Criminology BA
Here's a selection of our student clubs and societies:
We have religious student societies that hold regular meetings too.
They include the Christian Union Society, several Islamic societies and the Jewish Society.
Explore all our student groups on the MDXSU website.
"I started the Visual Arts Society to find like-minded people and step outside of my comfort zone.
I got lots of help from the Students’ Union including how to organise my first event and successfully apply for funding.
That was how I found my career path as an entrepreneur." Andre, MA Creative Technology
Get together with students with similar experiences and outlooks to share ideas and campaign for change.
Join up with students like you.
We have groups for students living at home while studying, student parents and carers, international students and postgraduate students.
Support each other and share ideas to help you all have the best student experience possible.
Can't find what you are looking for?
Then set it up for yourself!
We're always looking for new clubs, societies and events on campus.
And we'll help you get it started.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/student-life/life-on-campus/students-union:
MDXSU will make sure your voice is heard on the issues you care about.
We also offer loads of chances for you to meet new people, develop your skills and try new things.
We organise hundreds of events of all kinds on campus throughout the year.
From parties and gigs, comedy and clubbing to parliamentary style debates, workshops, exhibitions and career fairs.
Our Students' Union makes sure that you'll never be bored.
"MDXSU is constantly throwing parties and events, so there's plenty to do after dark.
It might be a collaboration with a society - which is an opportunity to see if you'd like to join it!" Matthew, Graphic Design BA
Your Students' Union is there to make your voice heard and support students to make things happen.
MDXSU reps want you to bring ideas, voice your views, and take the lead on issues that matter to you from more vegan food in the canteen to better support for homeless people in the local area.
Past campaign successes include getting microwaves for students to use, a free bike hire scheme on campus and lobbying the local council to resettle 50 Syrian refugees in our borough.
"There’s a lot of different things to get involved with at the Students' Union, from societies to campaigns, student jobs to leadership roles, pretty much something for everyone!"
Natasha, BSc Psychology
We want every Middlesex student to have the best experience possible.
But we understand that issues might come up – with your studies, where you're living or how you're feeling.
The Students' Union offers free, confidential and independent advice and support for student facing academic issues as well as other challenges.
Your Middlesex University Student Voice , MDXSU representatives are here to find out what you think and make sure your views are heard.
They are all students, and are elected to their roles through student-only votes.
They work with staff across the University and Students' Union to create changes that students want to see – on campus and beyond.
Your reps include a President and three Vice Presidents who work full-time for you and represent all Middlesex students on campus, locally and nationally.
There are also six School Voice Leaders and a Student Voice Leader on each year of every course.
Our student-run media includes an award-winning student magazine , a blossoming TV station and the ever-popular radio station POW!
FM.
There's also a new online hub featuring two blogs: POW!
News and POW!
Showcase.
See what's happening at MDXSU over on Facebook , Twitter , Snapchat and Instagram .

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/facilities/libraries:
Make the most of our free laptop loans, e-books, printing and photocopying, with support from our dedicated team.
The Sheppard Library is open from 8am to 11pm Monday to Sunday during term time, but can vary at other times.
The Sheppard Library is open at the following times:
Get free printing, 24-hour or 7 day laptop loans with full desktop software, and Wi-Fi to use on or off campus, even over the weekend.
When you're not on campus, you can access library services online, wherever you are in the world.
How we help make uni affordable
Our team of expert librarians, academic advisers and IT specialists are here to support you with everything from book referencing and submitting assignments to writing essays and giving presentations.
Make an appointment or turn up for a drop-in session.
You'll use the latest computers and software at Middlesex.
You can use PCs or Macs, and also use your own devices with our free, open and reliable Wi-Fi across the campus.
Our staff are here to answer your questions at the IT Specialist Desk in Sheppard Library every weekday and there are also one-to-one and group IT training sessions for you to book.
The University is equipped with several Wi-Fi access points that allow you to connect to the internet at different locations on campus.
This includes all buildings and cafes.
The University’s Wi-Fi service is free and easy to use – once you have set up a device it should automatically connect each time you are in range of a Wi-Fi access point.
There are two Wi-Fi services available to use:
This service is free and open to anyone on Campus who requires internet connectivity.
Wi-Fi connection guides along with various computer guides can be found here:
Eduroam is a free, global Wi-Fi service for students and University staff.
Eduroam can be used to access the internet at many other universities in the UK and around the world.
Visitors from other universities can also connect to it at Middlesex University.
The use of eduroam is subject to the Middlesex University Computer Use Policy for Students and Alumni and the eduroam (UK) Policy .
To connect to Eduroam, you’ll need:
For further information about Eduroam, please contact UniHelp.
This is our library.
It's open 24 hours a day and has many areas for you to study by yourself or as a group.
It has free printing, laptop loans and free e -books as well.
And there's a great team for you to help you with your academic and personal life.
My friends and I love it.
Come with me and I'll show you why.
At Middlesex, you're only a short tube journey away from the capital’s best libraries and study resources.
Search for historical documents from every era, and access the latest information on business, industry and research.
Visit The British Library website for more details.
Hendon Public Library is minutes away from our campus, with a fully searchable catalogue including excellent e-resources.
The SCONUL scheme gives you access, and some borrowing rights, for over 170 universities, colleges and special libraries – many in the London area.
SCONUL students can access the Sheppard library between these hours:
For further information, please visit SCONUL Access .
We're part of the M25 Consortium of Higher Education Libraries that links over 125 college and university libraries in London.
This allows postgraduate and staff in member libraries to use the Access25 scheme to visit other libraries in the consortium.
For further information, please visit Access25 - M25 .

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/sustainability:
We have developed practical sustainable solutions on our campuses in London, Dubai and Mauritius through our agile approach, setting an example for others.
We share our knowledge to help us and others respond to the urgent challenges of climate change and unfair production and consumption.
We are a Top 400 university in the world for our overall contribution to United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) (Times Higher Education Impact Rankings 2023).
We work to celebrate and enhance the critical role that education has in achieving the Goals and we have showed our commitment by signing the SDG Accord.
Read our 2020/21 UN SDG Report
Read our 2021/22 UN SDG Report
Read our 2022/23 UN SDG Report
Read our 2023/24 UN SDG Report
During COP28 UAE, our first global webinar explored COP28 themes and how the University and our partners on three continents are driving change globally and locally.
To access the first webinar, please use passcode +01V7?GC on Zoom:
Watch the recording of the first webinar on Zoom
In January 2024, our second global webinar focused on Sustainable Development Goal 3: Good Health and Wellbeing.
To access the second webinar, please use passcode qbipB!5X on Zoom:
Watch the recording of the second webinar on Zoom
The third global webinar focused on Sustainable Development Goal 4: Quality Education.
Watch the recording of the third webinar on YouTube
Our fourth global webinar focused on Sustainable Development Goal 16: Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions.
To access the fourth webinar, please use passcode R6a20d%L on Zoom:
Watch the recording of the fourth webinar on Zoom
Our fifth global webinar focused on how the arts and creative industries propel the SDGs.
To access the fifth webinar, please use passcode MDXsdg2025!
on Zoom:
Watch the recording of the fifth webinar on Zoom
We believe social enterprises are key to making UK food more sustainable, inclusive and healthy – so our researchers in London are sharing forward-thinking ideas and good practice.
They have visited parliament to speak with policy makers about the benefits too.
Our Institute of Sustainable Development in Dubai leads collaborative research with businesses, government and UN agencies.
They lead training in meeting the SDGs and build a sustainability mindset in their community.
We were proud to host the 2023 UN Climate Change Conference Climate Law event on campus.
We recently renovated the Trent Park Learning Block in Mauritius to integrate transformative learning with sustainable practices.
This holistic approach to looking after our students and staff’s wellbeing, alongside the natural world is a model for future education spaces.
We have developed an inspiring long-term vision for the future development of our London campus and its infrastructure in partnership with space design experts, to help us achieve our Strategy 2031 objectives.
In Dubai and Mauritius, and across our global community, we are equally committed to ensuring healthy and sustainable campuses for our staff, students and wider society.
Middlesex University operates an Environmental Management System with ISO 14001 accreditation as part of EcoCampus award scheme for the higher and further education sectors.
The scheme enables universities to systematically identify, evaluate, manage and improve their environmental performance and practices.
We achieved Platinum in 2019.
The process of accreditation works on the concept of continual improvement in environmental performance in a number of areas including: waste, energy, carbon reduction, procurement, water, community engagement, construction and refurbishment, education, travel, natural environment.
Our publicly available Environmental Management Policy, provides the cornerstone of the actions which we work to deliver that enable us to work to reducing our environmental impact across all areas, from carbon emissions and water conservation to waste management and biodiversity.
Our action plan is rigorously monitored, and progress is reported regularly to senior leadership, ensuring transparency and accountability through our environmental steering group committee.
Read our Environmental Policy May 2022 to find out how we are improving our environmental and energy performance.
We view robust energy management as critical to the success of our Carbon Management Plan .
To ensure we manage energy effectively, we have a documented Energy Management Strategy that seeks to align to ISO 50001.
We work in partnership with our energy broker and bureau provider to actively manage the energy supplied by EDF and Corona.
All our buildings are controlled and monitored by Building Management Systems.
We also generate low carbon electricity through combined heat and power units in Hatchcroft, Grove and the Ritterman buildings, as well as generate zero carbon electricity through solar voltaic panels on the Hatchcroft, College and Williams buildings and the Sheppard Library.
Middlesex University has taken a firm stance on ethical investment, ensuring that our financial decisions via procurement align with our sustainability goals.
We have committed to divesting from fossil fuel industries and invest in sustainable, low-carbon, and socially responsible alternatives.
We value and invest in every one of our more than 1,500 members of staff from 74 nationalities, and we foster a culture that inspires creativity, collaboration and growth.
Middlesex University is an inclusive employer, placing in the Top 1 00 list for leading LGBTQ+ inclusive employers in the Stonewall Workplace Equality Index 2023.
We have also joined the Athena Swan Charter and received the highly-esteemed Bronze Award that recognises good practice in higher education for eliminating gender bias and developing an inclusive culture.
Additionally, we have signed up to the Race Equality Charter and have been awarded a Bronze Award, demonstrating our commitment to improving the representation, progression and success of Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic staff and students within higher education.
We also provide voluntary reporting on the Ethnicity Pay Gap.
We encourage our students and staff to disclose any disabilities or long-term health conditions, to ensure they receive the support they need to fulfil their potential and thrive in their studies and in the workplace.
We are a member of Business Disability Forum and an accredited Disability Confident Leader (Level 3) organisation.
We work hard to provide sustainable travel options to our students and staff.
Green ways of travel include walking, using public transportation, taking advantage of our free shuttle service, cycling, having EV charges on campus and many others.
Find out more in our Travel Plan Review .
We are committed to Waste Management and Environmental Protection, and our Waste Management Strategy and Plan 2023-2028 sets out how we will maximise recycling and minimise waste.
We operate a mixed recycling service on the campus, as well as, disposing of a range of hazardous products from our laboratories and art studios.
These three posters  provide updates on our recycling performance.
We collect rainwater from the Sheppard Library roof and use it for toilets in the building.
We store harvested rainwater to irrigate the planters around MDX House.
We support the Fresh Air Campus initiative which focuses on understanding the quality of the air and the health of the local community, engaging with local environmental organisations.
Our Environmental Steering Group (ESG) is at the forefront of shaping the University's approach to sustainable operations.
The ESG was created in 2017 to review and authorise relevant policies and other areas of interest on behalf of the University Executive Team (UET), ensuring they align with the Middlesex University Strategic Plan.
The members provide feedback to their respective area of the community (school or service) on ideas, initiatives and news, while bringing to the group’s attention any concerns and issues raised by those communities.
This ensures flow of information and uniformity of data among stakeholders.
The ESG also signs off the Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting (SECR) data for the annual Financial Statement and the Carbon Management Plan before presenting to the UET.
The Group is dedicated to setting and upholding environmental objectives, targets and associated programme of activities and/or initiatives as well as assigning responsibilities for the delivery of those, and monitoring progress.
The ESG approves the annual Environmental Management Review and the associated Annual Environmental Report on behalf of the UET.
The meetings are held quarterly and membership to the ESG is broad.
The Group has academic members of each of our faculties, as well as members from various teams within the Professional Services such as Marketing, Procurement and Insurance, ISS, Contracts, Estates and Facilities Management and others.
Colleagues from our Mauritius campus and UNISON Trade Union representatives are also part of the ESG.
Moreover, the Group provides a platform for student input as well by opening the membership to representatives from the Students' Union, usually the current president of the Union as well as a member of their senior staff.
While the members have an equal say, the Group is chaired by the Head of Environmental Sustainability with oversight from a dedicated UET member.
By participating, members advertise the great ongoing work within their departments while making sure the work is also recognised and celebrated by integrating it into the university's sustainability agenda.
Being a part of the group also means building stronger links across departments, aligning our objectives, and sharing innovative ideas.
Topics may vary from meeting to meeting, with the agenda being open to additions from all members, but the four main reporting and feedback topics are centred around Leadership, Staff and Governance; Campus, Community and Operations; Partnerships, Society and Engagement; and Learning, Teaching and Education.
Agenda and meeting notes are distributed to members in advance.
The meetings are not recorded but are hybrid so that commuting members and those from our overseas campuses can join freely.
The Group is always looking for new members to add onto the knowledge exchange and expand our expertise.
The ESG Terms of Reference and other relevant paperwork is reviewed regularly and amended where necessary.
MDXFreeWheelers bike hire and bike parking spaces
Motorcycle purchase loans for staff
Electric vehicle charging on campus and 300% reduction in fuel use between 2016 and 2023 by using electric vehicles on campus and reducing our fleet
MDX Moves rewards staff and students for active journeys and workouts
We offer a free shuttle service connecting our Hendon campus with the StoneX park
140,000 bees on campus
110m2 of green wall suited to location and climate
A hedgehog friendly campus
Two new trees planted for any that have to be removed
Biodiversity Action Plan developed with London Wildlife Trust
Here are some of the talented team who are responsible for delivering our policy.
"I have enjoyed working in environmental sustainability with a proven track record in developing and implementing eco-friendly initiatives having gained experience on many UK national policies.
I work to blend my expertise in environmental science, policy advocacy, and corporate responsibility.
I am committed to driving positive change, to leverage a strategic vision to navigate the intersection of business and environmental stewardship, leaving an indelible mark on sustainable practices, above all I want to showcase the good work that Middlesex university do through our SDG accord work.
Positive wellbeing of people around me is important, I am continuously self-developing, as I love learning about cultures and travelling to gain new experiences."
"I’m responsible for raising awareness and promoting new projects and I look after the Green Travel Plan, working with the team to help influence activities and encourage staff and students to consider more sustainable ways to live, work and travel in everyday life."
"I am looking after our commitment to the SDG Accord as well as other internal and external projects dealing with environment and sustainability.
My background in Politics and Law gave me the foundation of knowledge and experience which I am hoping to grow as I progress within my role.
With the help of my team, we hope to help drive positive change and to further demonstrate the wonderful things Middlesex University has achieved and continues to strive for.”
sustainability@mdx.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/student-life/living-costs-uni-on-a-budget/how-to-plan-your-budget:
Living away from home for the first time or being new to London can make it hard to predict what you’ll spend, but there is plenty of help available at Middlesex.
Creating a budget, and sticking to it, is crucial.
Then you’ll be clear about what money you have to spend, what's essential and what's nice-to-have.
If you can get into the habit of planning your spending and checking it every week, you’ll create less stress for yourself.
To help you out, we’ve broken down the basics of budgeting into some easy-to-follow steps.
This won’t take too long as it’s usually a much shorter list than all the money that’s going out.
Here’s what to think about:
This part is more complicated and depends on your personal circumstances.
Go through these categories and make an estimate of your outgoings.
Try looking through your past bank statements to see what you spend in a typical month.
Student budget calculators can be really helpful.
Visit This is Money - Student budget calculator .
Take what’s going out from what’s coming in, and then divide it by the number of weeks during a term.
What’s left is what you have to spend each week.
When you’ve planned your budget, you’ve got to plan how to record what you spend.
By going through this process, you’ll realise just how easy it is to keep track of where your money is going each month, and what you can afford to spend.
Going out with friends, don't forget to split the bill.
There are some apps to help with this.
If you need more help, contact your student support team.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/undergraduate-finance/financial-packages-support:
Get a head start at Middlesex University: To help ensure uni is affordable, we’re stepping up and doing everything we can to support our new students.
That’s why we’ve launched the MDX Student/Clearing Starter Kits and MDX Excellence Scholarship, available for students starting Middlesex University in 2024.
Register your interest below and you could receive £1,000 in goodies, cash rewards and more.
At Middlesex, we don’t think the cost of living should stop you from achieving your goals.
Our MDX Student Starter Kit gives you the tools you need to kick-start your studies, and hopefully worry less about your budget.
Closing date: Applications are now closed for the Student Starter Kit.
Please review the other awards open to applications.
Students who have already completed applications will receive decisions in October.
Please remember that participation in the Ready For Anything welcome programme is one of the requirements for eligibility.
Each kit contains up to £1,000 worth of goodies, including:
Plus – if you apply for a kit, you’ll also get access to exclusive experiences and rewards in the run up to starting at Middlesex.
There are a limited number of kits available, so we’re looking for students to share how this support will help them succeed at Middlesex.
To be eligible for a kit, you’ll need to:
If you’ve applied to Middlesex University by Wednesday 25 January 2024 and registered your interest in the kit, you’ll be exclusively eligible for the first allocation of MDX Student Support Kits to be awarded.
New for 2024, our Clearing Starter Kit offers a smaller allocation of our popular Student Starter Kit to students applying through Clearing.
The Clearing Starter Kit gives you the tools you need to kick-start your studies, and hopefully worry less about your budget.
Closing date: Applications are now closed for the Clearing Starter Kit.
Package including tech and a grant worth up to £1,000
The MDX Excellence Scholarship is awarded to UK students who demonstrate outstanding academic potential.
Applications are now closed for the MDX Excellence Scholarship.
At Middlesex, we want you to achieve your full potential.
Our scholarship aims to give you the right opportunities and financial support you need to succeed, no matter what your goals are.
This scholarship is for new Middlesex University students who will be starting their studies in September 2024 in any subject.
As a scholar, you’ll be expected to achieve high grades at school or college, such as:
If you are a UK applicant, and you meet the above grade requirements and our full criteria on the registration form, you are eligible to apply.
We are looking for future scholars who can showcase not only their academic talents, but also their potential to make a positive impact within their field.
As a scholar, you will strive for excellence in your studies with us and have a keen interest in expanding your personal and professional experiences.
Students are welcome to apply for both the Student Starter Kit and the Excellence Scholarship.
Please be aware that students successful for the Excellence Scholarship will not be eligible to receive the Student Starter Kit.
If you require any extra information about either financial package, please email MDXbursary@mdx.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/scholarships-and-bursaries:
Financial aid for which incoming and current Middlesex students are eligible to apply
We don't want you to be discouraged from university study due to financial reasons so we offer scholarships, awards and bursaries.
They aren't like a loan because you don't need to pay them back.
We award them for different reasons based on your personal circumstances and achievements.
You can use the money to reduce your tuition fees or to assist with expenses.
Depending on your family's income, you might also be entitled to more support from the government through loans and grants.
See our information on undergraduate finance and postgraduate finance .
We are finalising our financial support for students looking to apply for September 2025.
We expect to share full details on this page in early 2025.
In the meantime, please reach out if you have any questions about the broader support available.
The UG Excellence Support Packs are awarded to UK students who demonstrate outstanding academic potential.
Students achieving high grades in post 16 qualifications will be eligible for this award which aims to provide the right opportunities and financial support you need to succeed.
The UG Excellence Support Pack includes:
The UG Excellence Support Pack is for new Middlesex University students who will be starting their studies in September 2025 in any subject and who are eligible for UK fees.
Successful applicants will be expected to achieve high grades at school or college, such as:
If you are a UK applicant, and you meet the above grade requirements and our full criteria on the application form, you are eligible to apply.
We will also expect applicants to attend the preparatory welcome events, Ready For Anything, which take place on campus and online over selected dates in August and September.
Apply here
Amount: Ranging from £200 to £1,000 Eligibility: Any undergraduate or postgraduate student demonstrating a significant achievement in sport.
If you are competing at a regional or national level in your sport, you could be eligible for support and funding through the Middlesex Sport Scholarship Scheme.
Apply for sports scholarships
For more information about sports scholarships please email compsport@mdx.ac.uk or call +44 (0)208 411 5415 .
We offer a European Academic Award of £1000 - £7000 to individuals who have demonstrated academic excellence and ambition in their previous studies.
The scholarship is available to excellent applicants from the EU/EEA*.
Applicants need to apply to Middlesex University first and receive a study offer to be eligible.
This award is given as a discount towards tuition fees for the first year of study.
Students finishing their first/second year with at least 2:2 will be considered for a continuation scholarship.
Who can apply
When to apply
How to apply To be considered for the scholarship, apply via the link below, and upload a 500 word statement explaining why you think you should be awarded the scholarship.
You can include information about your personality, values, how you contribute to society, how that aligns with your chosen study subject at Middlesex University and anything else you think is relevant.
Apply for a European Academic Award here
*Please note that EU/EEA citizens with pre-settled or settled status are not eligible for the award.
Are you a new student starting your course at Middlesex this year?
Then you could be eligible to apply for The Professor Malcolm Sargeant Scholarship.
This Scholarship is for the academic year 2025/2026 and is to the value of £2,900.
It will be distributed in 3 instalments throughout the year and is available to a first year undergraduate studying any subject.
As the Scholarship is payable in instalments, then payment of subsequent Scholarship instalments may be dependent on continued study at Middlesex and the Trustees reserve the right to withdraw the Scholarship if this is no longer the case.
This Scholarship was donated by the Professor Malcolm Sargeant Charitable Trust, which was set up in memory of Professor Malcolm Sargeant, a Professor at Middlesex.
Professor Sargeant was the first of his family to go to university, and this changed his life and his future.
As a legacy to him and his life, the Professor Malcolm Sargeant Charitable Trust supports future students to achieve their goals by helping with access to a university education.
About the charitable trust .
If you match the criteria below, then you are eligible to complete the application form and apply for the Scholarship.
Apply for The Professor Malcolm Sargeant Scholarship
The Professor Brenda Barrett Law Bursaries are designed to support incoming first year Law students, both undergraduate and postgraduate, who require financial assistance.
The process requires completion of this form as an expression of interest.
Students who go on to meet the terms and conditions below will be considered for shortlisting and award of a Professor Brenda Barrett Law Bursary.
Amount
10 x £1,000 bursaries
Apply for The Professor Brenda Barrett Law Bursary
Are you a nursing or midwifery student enrolled on an course at Middlesex University for the 2025-26 academic year?
Then you could be eligible to apply for The Dame Janet Ritterman Bursary.
This bursary has been kindly sponsored by the Chancellor of Middlesex University, Dame Janet Ritterman and is to the value of £1,000.
If you match the defined criteria then you are eligible to apply by completing and submitting the form.
2 x £1,000 bursaries
Applicants must be a second or third year student studying nursing or midwifery at undergraduate or postgraduate level, or a first year that has completed a foundation year at Middlesex University, or a postgraduate student who has studied an undergraduate at Middlesex University and can produce attendance records.
The student must be enrolled on their course in September/October 2025, as attendance records are mandatory.
The bursar y is open to both UK and International students.
Full terms and conditions can be found below.
Applicants must upload a reference and a document confirming their attendance record to be considered.
Any applicant who does not submit a validated document will not be considered for a bursary.
Validated documents will need to originate from academic tutors.
We require a named seminar tutor, who is able to provide you with a record of your previous attendance.
If successful we will contact your tutor to confirm each document is legitimate.
Please note, priority will be given to those who are from the following groups:
Apply for The Dame Janet Ritterman Bursary
Amount: Reduction of up to 20% of the tuition fee Eligibility: Please see details of eligibility below
We offer all Middlesex University alumni who are UK/EU citizens a 20% fee reduction on postgraduate courses.
International alumni can benefit from 20% off their masters fees if they are not in receipt of any regional awards.
Alumni from our Academic Partner Institutions are entitled to a 10% reduction in fees.
This offer applies to all alumni with a Middlesex undergraduate degree and/or postgraduate taught degree including those who studied with a collaborative partner (subject to eligibility).
The award can also be applied twice to the same individual i.e.
once for a PGT (postgraduate taught/masters) degree and then for a PGR (postgraduate research/PhD) as long as the individual has completed the PGT degree.
There is no separate application process for your alumni award - simply highlight that you are an alumni when applying for your course to ensure the award is applied.
The Alumni Postgraduate Award is only applicable if you are self-financing, that is paying the fees yourself or through a company you own.
Where courses are part sponsored such as the MA Social Work, The Alumni Postgraduate Award will only apply to the fee contribution paid by you.
For International alumni who apply through our regional offices, The Alumni Postgraduate Award cannot be held in addition in any regional awards.
Please note the Alumni Postgraduate Award is only valid for courses where the future study is undertaken at Middlesex University, London.
International campus alumni discounts may vary, please check their websites for details.
It is not applicable to Middlesex courses run at our academic partner institutions.
There are some instances when the alumni award will NOT be applicable:
Students who have already been awarded a Middlesex degree and are returning to complete a second programme of study who are self-financing, that is those paying the fees themselves or through a company they own.
If students are in receipt of any other type of discount (including regional awards), they are not eligible for an alumni tuition fee discount.
Middlesex University students (UK and International students) who have successfully completed an Undergraduate direct-entry into years 2 or 3 (Top-ups), and graduates from validated and franchise institutions would receive a 20% discount.
Again this is dependent on them not being in receipt of any other regional award or Scholarship.
This award is not applicable to students being sponsored by an organisation or business.
The University offers all Alumni a 20% fee reduction on postgraduate courses and postgraduate research degree study.
This scheme is open to UK, EU and International students studying full time or part time postgraduate studies.
There is no separate application process for the Alumni Postgraduate Award.
Students are advised when applying for a course, to highlight that they are an Alumni during the admissions process to ensure the award is applied.
This award is only valid at Middlesex University London.
Alumni applying to International campuses are advised to check their websites for details.
For the avoidance of doubt, an Alumni award is not applicable where a student is moving from a foundation course to an Undergraduate degree or to a PGCE course.
Students who are undertaking a Continuing Professional Qualification (CPD) at Middlesex University, or are completing a single module of study under a CPD qualification will not be entitled to the alumni discount.
Amount: Full Postgraduate tuition fees Eligibility: Please check the full list of criteria
Funded by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office and partner organisations, Chevening Scholarships are awarded to individuals with demonstrable leadership potential and strong academic backgrounds.
The scholarship offers full financial support to study for any eligible master’s degree at any UK university whilst also gaining access to a wide range of exclusive academic, professional, and cultural experiences.
To apply please complete the application form on the Chevening Scholarship website .
To be considered for the scholarship, apply via the link below, and upload a 500 word statement explaining why you think you should be awarded the scholarship.
As part of our ongoing investment in research, we offer a number of funded studentships throughout the year.
Please note you need to apply for your course in parallel with your studentship application.
You should also ensure you mention the studentship you are interested in when you submit your application.
Amount : Full Postgraduate tuition fees, airfare to and from the UK and a living allowance Eligibility : Citizen or permanent resident of a Commonwealth country, undergraduate honours degree of at least upper second class and you must be unable to afford to study in the UK without the scholarship.
To apply please complete the application form on the Commonwealth Scholarship website.
When to apply : Applications for this scholarship will reopen in December 2025.
If you have any questions regarding this scholarship please contact the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission directly.
We are revising our offer of financial support to ensure it best meets the current needs of students.
Further announcements will be made on postgraduate awards in June.
The deadline to apply for these scholarships is 14 September 2024.
Amount: 2 x £100 awards (one for undergraduate, one for postgraduate)
Eligibility: Any MDX Environmental Health student
The Middlesex University Food Safety Prize is available to any Environmental Health student who has demonstrated excellent academic potential, and achieved the best overall performance in their Food Practical exam in the opinion of the Food Practical examiners.
To apply for these prizes, please email Adam Choonara
In addition to the above awards, if you are a student with talent and potential, you may be eligible for either our Regional or International Merit Award, which rewards students with up to £2,000 towards course fees for all taught undergraduate and postgraduate courses.
We also have a limited number of other awards specific to certain regions, and work in partnership with funding providers in your country to help support you financially with your study.
For more information about what's available to students from your country, please contact your nearest of our international offices .
The Living Costs Fund, which is available throughout the academic year, is designed to provide a safety net to help you to continue to study.
The fund provides support for small unexpected costs and support, as you adjust to higher living costs whilst studying.
The fund is open to all enrolled students, or those retaking modules this year.
Money or food vouchers don’t need to be repaid, and you can apply more than once.
We understand not everyone will have access to a personal laptop, but we’re determined to make sure this doesn’t hinder your learning.
Laptops are accessible to all via our laptop loan scheme.
During the pandemic, we purchased an extra 1000 additional laptops, meaning access is better than ever before.
You might also be interested in

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/undergraduate-finance:
Our undergraduate fees for UK students in the 2025/26 academic year are £9,535 per year (subject to the government’s proposed increase in the tuition fee cap receiving Parliamentary approval).
*
* Depending on the duration of your study, your tuition fees for subsequent academic years may be subject to further inflationary increases (most recently, the UK government has suggested that increases may be linked to the All-Items Retail Prices Index – RPIX) in line with any additional rise in the tuition fee cap set by the UK government.
Some of our degrees involve extra costs, for items such as art supplies, protective clothing or field trips, which are not covered by your tuition fees.
You can visit our course pages for details on any additional costs associated with your course of choice, to ensure you can budget effectively for your studies.
Any queries or concerns?
If you're studying a pre-registration nursing or midwifery course, you will have access to the standard student support package of tuition fee loans and support for living costs plus some additional allowances from the NHS.
Visit The Funding Clinic for more information on funding arrangements and what it means for you.
There are a range of funding and loan options available to ensure you are able to attend university whatever your financial background.
You can apply for a student loan to cover the cost of your tuition during your studies.
This loan means that you will not have to pay fees upfront yourself and instead can repay the cost of your degree once you have graduated and are earning over a certain amount.
If this is your second undergraduate degree, at the same level or lower than what you previously studied, you may not be eligible for a student loan.
Courses such as Teaching, Midwifery, Nursing and Social Work are exempt but please check the Student Finance website .
You can apply for a maintenance loan to help towards the cost of living expenses.
This loan is means tested against your household income and must be paid back once you have graduated and are earning over a certain amount.
See what you could expect if applying for a maintenance loan
We offer a range of scholarships and awards to recognise your academic achievement and potential.
Find a scholarship
At Middlesex you can work part-time for the University in a variety of student jobs on- and off-campus including Student Ambassador roles.
More employability support
If you are experiencing financial difficulties or do not have access to the necessary money for your course then you can get support through our student support fund.
We offer a reduction of fees to some students, including the children of Gurkhas.
Ask for information about reduction of fees
Your employer can contribute towards the cost of your studies as part of their staff development programme.
You will then need to complete our Online Query form, attach the letter and add ‘Sponsorship Information’ in the Subject field.
Many banks offer career and professional development loans that can be used towards the cost of work-related learning.
If this is not your first full-time degree, they can help support the cost of up to two years of learning, or three years if the period of learning includes one year's relevant unpaid work experience / placement.
Check if you are eligible for a career development loan
If you wish to leave a course before completing it, let us know through Unihub as soon as possible.
Fees and funding for international students can be quite different to UK students.
That's why we have information specifically for our international students including cost of your degree, ways to pay and information about your deposit.
International students fees and funding
As part of its registration with the Office for Students, Middlesex University has developed an access and participation plan that sets us clear benchmarks for our progress in supporting key groups.
This plan sets out how higher education providers will improve equality of opportunity for underrepresented groups to access, succeed in and progress from higher education.
View our access and participation plan.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/student-life/student-support/disability-and-neurodiversity-support:
Whatever challenges you're facing, we're here to help.
Our single site campus is a big plus and if you choose to live on campus, our accommodation team will make sure your living space has everything you need.
For everything else, connect with us, your Disability and Dyslexia Support team.
We'll make life easier for you so you can focus on your studies and the fun stuff; making friends, events, societies, sports and fitness.
We can help if you are affected by:
Over 13% of our students are currently receiving support so you'll be in good hands.
You know how your disability or learning difference impacts you better than us, but here's how we can help.
And if there is something we haven't thought of, do let us know.
It can take up to 16 weeks to arrange support, so you should start the process as early as possible.
Please contact us to discuss your support before you apply or as soon as you can.
You may be using hearing aids or lip reading.
Or you might need an an interpreter or note-taker for British Sign Language (BSL) or Signed Supported English (SSE).
We can discuss what you need together.
And then we can arrange BSL interpreters, note takers or tutors.
If you lip-read, we can let your lecturers know and help them support you.
They’ll give you reading lists and handouts in advance and permission to record lectures or seminars and extended library loans.
"My confidence has gone up from 3 to 7 since starting university.
It’s been brilliant, I got the resources that I need to do my degree and now I’m getting firsts."
We'll work with you, following an assessment, to help you get you the academic support you need.
It may include the following:
If you have reduced mobility, whether you use a wheelchair or need to limit the amount you walk, we can create the right support package for you following an assessment.
Our support may include some of the following:
We welcome students with Specific Learning Differences (SpLDs), such as dyslexia, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), dyspraxia, dyscalculia, dysgraphia.
All of our students have unique strengths and challenges and we can help you play to your strengths.
You may need individual adjustments which can be arranged following an assessment with a disability adviser and may include:
If you think you have a specific learning difficulty, our disability advisers can offer screenings, which will tell us if you need to be referred for a full diagnosis.
Following the assessment you will receive a diagnostic report which will confirm whether a diagnosis has been made.
This report can be used as evidence for a Middlesex Support Package and for the Disabled Students Allowance.
You may be eligible for a government-funded support package providing help with equipment, software and travel, sign language interpreters, specialist note takers and tutors for the deaf.
DSA support is provided by your funding body after a needs-assessment.
It can take up to 16 weeks to complete the DSA application process.
So, please apply as early as possible.
Applications will open the Spring before your course starts.
We can help you complete the Disabled Students Allowance application form.
And we'll even call the DSA team with you if you have questions about the progress of your application.
You’ll find details and the application forms on the government’s DSA website.
Visit the Gov.uk DSA site.
Here’s the three step process to arranging an MDX Support Package.
Once you have your medical evidence ready it should take less than a week to arrange this support.
Your support package will be explained in a Learning Support Form which will detail the reasonable adjustments that will be put in place for you and include details of your learning and teaching needs, exam recommendations and library support.
Hi I'm Carol
I am responsible for the overall management of the Disability Support Service, SpLD Tuition and Mentoring service.
I work with colleagues to support students like you and to promote disability awareness throughout the University.
I'm an Accredited Member of the National Association of Disability Practitioners.
Please get in touch with any questions.
Email Carol
You'll find us at Sunny Hill House where we have rooms for counselling and disability advisor appointments.
It has a nice garden at the back which is a relaxing space for students and staff
We handle the screening appointments, arrange MDX Support Packages and advise on the Disabled Students Allowance.
Any questions, please email one of our advisors below.
Email Assie
Email David
Email Amanda
Email Lucy
To find us, you can go through Greyhound Hill or the Williams Building car park.
On Google Maps, use our postcode, NW4 4JS to find us.
The building is wheelchair accessible.
Sunny Hill House Middlesex University The Burroughs London NW4 4BT
We are open Monday to Friday from 9.00am to 5.00pm.
We are closed on Bank Holidays and University closure days.
Middlesex University (Hendon) is committed to the promotion of diversity and equality of opportunity throughout its policies, procedures and delivery of learning, teaching and support that govern and determine the quality of student experiences.
This policy outlines the University’s commitment and approach to creating a positive environment and supportive experience for disabled students that is rooted in fairness, equality, equity and respect.
View our Disability Support Policy (PDF)
Any medical documentation or information about your health that you share with us remains confidential within the Disability and Dyslexia Service.
This means we do not share verbal or written information about you to others without your consent.
When you register with the Disability and Dyslexia Service we will discuss information sharing with you in more detail.
We always welcome your feedback.
If you wish to let us know about the service you had, either positive or constructive, please email the DDS team .

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/student-life/student-support/care-leavers-estranged-students:
We're here to support you throughout your university journey, from your first application to graduation and beyond.
Remember to tick the relevant box on your UCAS form so we can support you from the start.
To be classed as an estranged student, you'll have to provide evidence to demonstrate the lack of contact.
This can take the form of a letter from a doctor, teacher or other professional who knows about your situation.
The evidence will be assessed by Student Finance England and you will qualify if you're under 25 and have had no contact with your parents for a least a year before you start your course, and/or you can show that you will permanently have no contact with your parents.
We can help you move from sixth form/college to higher education.
We offer advice and guidance on:
To find out more please download student life for care leavers (PDF) .
After you've enrolled, we'll help you during your studies with:
There are funding and loan options available to make sure you are able to come to Middlesex, regardless of financial background.
Get more information on Undergraduate funding and Scholarships and Bursaries .
For more information about your on-course and financial options: Contact Jude Cringle, Student Welfare Advice Team Manager via email or call +44 208 411 6482.
Before you graduate, we will give you lots of opportunities to increase your employability skills , making you highly sought after by employers and helping you secure internships and jobs.
Our relationship with you doesn't end when you graduate.
You'll become part of a network of around 190,000 alumni who support and inspire each other.
Our Alumni team will also make sure that you're kept up to date on the latest MDX news, invite you back on campus and let you know of great opportunities and industry networking events.
The Drive Forward Foundation is a small London-based charity offering great support for care leavers aged 14-26 to help them succeed at school and in life.
Become is a charity for children in care and young care leavers and Propel provides further information for care leavers wishing to progress to higher education.
Stand Alone provides support for people who are estranged from their family or a key family member and have a specific student support portal.
We have taken the Stand Alone pledge meaning we are committed to providing support for you.
Bright Knowledge offers advice about student finance for students who are estranged from their parents.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/short-courses-and-cpd/pre-sessional-english:
Our Pre-sessional English courses will prepare you for study in the UK at degree level and once completed you will have academic English and confidence for your future studies in the UK.
And, you won't need to take any further English language tests, such as IELTS.
Contact our international offices to find out more.
We are proud to say that the courses have been accredited by BALEAP: the global forum for EAP professionals, which sets rigorous criteria to ensure that courses in academic English and study skills for speakers of other languages are of a high standard and provide an excellent quality of service for their students.
The course is intended to help you:
For more information about these courses, please contact our representatives in your region .
There are two types of delivery mode: face-to-face, and online.
Please speak to our local representatives about which is best for you.
On our courses taught in London, you will have 21 hours of lessons per week between Monday to Friday.
If you study on our 30-week course, you will have 15 hours of contact for the first 13 weeks, increasing to 21 hours for the remainder of the programme.
The maximum class size will be 16, ensuring that you have plenty of opportunity to develop your speaking skills, and to receive individual attention from your teacher.
You will also have guided library support, regular individual tutorials, additional skills classes, and the chance to earn online badges for completing academic literacy tasks.
You will be expected to engage with additional self-study resources and to develop your independent learning skills, especially to improve your academic writing.
You will complete regular homework and assignments to speed up your development.
We offer separate undergraduate and postgraduate courses.
The postgraduate course allows for more specialist development aligned to your future studies, and has a greater focus on independent research.
Our online course is especially designed to help students who face the challenges of learning remotely, in a more isolated environment.
It is for pre-undergraduate students only.
Each day, you will spend 3-4 hours working through online materials individually, developing all the skills you need, but with particular emphasis on writing and reading.
You will then have a daily Zoom class with a maximum of just eight students, during which your teacher will concentrate on helping develop your speaking and listening skills in particular, as well as providing specific development work targeting your individual needs.
With such small groups, you receive plenty of individual attention and can make rapid progress.
Just like on our face-to-face courses, you will have 1:1 tutorials, guided library support, additional skills classes, and the chance to earn online badges for completing academic literacy tasks.
Throughout the course you will develop the following skills:
The learning outcomes are the same for both face-to-face and online courses, and you will learn all the key skills you need to be successful on your main course.
Your learning will be developed through group work, individual work, independent study, and 1:1 support from your tutor.
You will also benefit from guided research and individual tutorials.
You will be using our online learning platform, myLearning, to access your modules, resources, and additional materials.
Even if you are studying on our face-to-face course, you will need to bring a laptop to class.
For online courses, because all teaching, including tutorials and seminars, will be taking place on Zoom, please download Zoom before your course starts.
We recommend testing the camera and microphone on your laptop or computer before the start of each session.
Depending on which country you are joining us from, you might need to also consider installing a VPN.
We recommend using Chrome, but other browsers should also work fine.
You will receive important details on how to enrol in an email from our Student Communications team once your offer is confirmed.
Once enrolled, you will be able to access all the online resources on myLearing.
You will also be provided with a student handbook which we recommend you read before you begin your studies.
It also outlines the process of what to do when you're unwell and need to miss a class.
There are a variety of assessment methods that will be used to assess your academic writing, listening skills, speaking skills, and academic reading.
You will need to achieve an overall pass and you cannot fail any component.
If you successfully pass the assessments, you will not have to take another English exam, such as IELTS, and will be able to progress onto a full-degree course.
All the assessments take place in the final weeks of the course, giving you a chance to practise all required key skills.
Your tutor will be available to you throughout the course to give you regular feedback on your progress, as well as to provide any additional support you might need.
Small class numbers mean they'll be able to dedicate a lot of time to each individual student, as well as holding regular 1:1 tutorials with you.
You'll also have access to our course team so that you can ask any extra questions you might have.
Staff will be available to support you with solving technical issues and other problems that you might encounter.
Particularly for students learning online, we know that learning from home can be a challenge, so we will be there to help you and to make you feel supported.
Our Pre-sessional English courses are normally for students who don’t meet the minimum English language requirements for degree-level study at a UK university.
The courses are also suitable for international students who have a good knowledge of English but wish to develop their confidence in actively using the language in an academic context.
You must have a minimum of IELTS 4.0 (with no less than 4.0 in any skill) for entry onto a Pre-sessional course.
The IELTS must be UKVI-approved.
If you have a higher score you may be able to do a shorter course as outlined in the table below.
We do sometimes accept other English language qualifications besides IELTS.
To find out if yours is acceptable, please contact our local representatives
Your English language qualification must be taken within two years of the start date of your course, and you will need to supply us with proof of your qualification.
If you have not taken an English test in the last two years, please contact our local representatives.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/international-foundation-programme-ifp:
Course not in Clearing
This course is not in Clearing for a September 2025 start.
Call us to discuss your options.
The International Foundation Programme (IFP) will prepare you for undergraduate study in the UK.
You will gain high levels of support as we help you settle into student life in London, and build the skills and confidence needed for successful degree study.
The programme is aimed at students with intermediate to advanced levels of English, who have completed secondary school with good grades, but would like to improve their study skills to meet the entry requirements for an undergraduate degree at Middlesex.
During the course you will be introduced to a range of subjects taught on our undergraduate programmes, and we will offer you individual support in choosing and applying for your degree.
The course will prepare you to begin an undergraduate course with confidence and settle into student life at Middlesex.
You will also:
The programme incorporates a streamlined, integrated design based on four modules with a common underlying core theme.
The core theme provides a stimulating learning platform which will relate to real life scenarios.
Possible core themes include tourism, sustainability, education, environment or hosting a global event.
The core theme will also include a series of sub-themes covered in three week blocks, which will introduce you to a range of subjects taught on undergraduate programmes.
These subject 'tasters' aim to inform your future choice of undergraduate degree and may include business, media, communications, global and social sciences subjects.
All students will study modules as follows, depending on their pathway:
To find out more about this course, please download the International Foundation Programme (PDF)
In addition to qualifications such as A level and International Baccalaureate, we accept a wide range of international qualifications.
Find out more on your country's support page .
If you are unsure of the suitability of your qualifications or would like help with your application, please contact your nearest regional office .
The most common qualification we accept is the IELTS 6.0 (with a minimum 5.5 in all sections).
Find out more about our English language requirements.
And, don’t worry If you don't meet our minimum English language requirements, as we offer an intensive pre-sessional English course.
You won't be required to attend an interview for this course.
British GCSEs/IGCSEs/O Levels*
(*Dubai and Mauritius only, not accepted for entry to Hendon delivered IFP)
The International Foundation Programme is a 1 year programme and the tuition fee is £14,500 for September 2025 entry.
Psychology Programmes
BSc Psychology*
BSc Psychology with Counselling*
BSc Psychology with Criminology*
BSC Psychology with Neuroscience*
Computer Science Programmes
BSc Computer Networks and Security
BSc Computer Science (Systems Engineering)
BSc Cyber Security and Digital Forensics
BSc Information Technology
DEM Programmes*
BA Product Design
BSc Honours Architectural Technology
BEng Design Engineering
BEng Mechatronics and Robotics
BEng Electronic Engineering
BEng Computer Systems Engineering
Business Programmes
BA Accounting and Finance*
BSC Business Accounting
BA Business Management
BA Business Management (Finance)
BA Business Management (Human Resources)
BA Business Management (Innovation and Entrepreneurship)
BA Business Management (Marketing)
BA International Business
BA International Tourism Management
BA Marketing
BSc Banking and Finance
BSc Business Economics
BSc Economics
Law Programmes
BA Criminology
BA Criminology (Policing and Investigations)
LLB Law
BA Sociology with Criminology
Ana Maria Franco Combita from Colombia completed a one-year International Foundation Programme at Middlesex before progressing onto the BA International Politics.
"During the IFP I really improved my English, but also learned how to reference, write essays in English and use the library.
It was really great that the pace of the IFP was slow – we started small, with short essays, and then built up to more difficult work over the year, before we were ready to start our degree.
In the first year of your degree, they assume you already know everything  - so I feel like the IFP gave me a head start.
I actually became the student rep for my course in the first year of my degree because I already knew how to use the library and reference my work.
That was really cool.
If it wasn't for the IFP I would have been in the same position as everyone else.
The best part about the IFP was getting to know people from all over the world.
It was great to experience so many different opinions and cultures in class.
It's a glimpse into the real world!
At home, we would have a debate in class and we'd talk about other countries or cultures, but we wouldn't really understand them.
Here at Middlesex, we'll have a debate and people from all over the world will actually be taking part.
The tutors on the IFP were really supportive.
I did really well on the course, and because of that my tutor recommended me for a scholarship for my first year of my BA International Politics degree, and I was successful!
I'm really grateful to her for that.
I like being in London, but its really different to life back in Colombia – life goes very fast here!
But it does captivate you, you feel busy and useful.
I've learned lots in London, and I've discovered myself in many ways.
In a sense, I even feel more proud of being Colombian after coming here, because everyone around you is different.
It's a great experience."
Ana Maria Franco Combita

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-community/report-it-to-stop-it:
Experienced or witnessed a hate crime?
If you are a member of the public, please use this page to find out what to do if you’ve been affected by a hate crime and see how Middlesex University, as a member of the Barnet Network of Reporting Centres, can help you report the incident.
This page will give you information about how Middlesex University, as a member of the Barnet Network of Reporting Centres, can help you report the incident.
If you, or someone you know, has been affected by a hate crime, tell someone about it, talk to a family member or close friend.
See a List of local hate crime support agencies offering practical and emotional support in the local area.
It’s important to let the right people know so they can help you keep safe and help prevent it from happening again.
They can also help you if you wish to report the incident to the police.
In an emergency, always call 999.
If your call is not urgent, call 101.
You can also report to the police online .
If, for any reason, you do not wish to speak directly to the police or visit a police station, you can report via True Vision , a national website which provides the option of online reporting as well as information and advice about hate crime.
Most apps and websites have built in reporting features, or an email to enable you to contact the administrators to report online hate.
Report to any of the independent hate crime reporting centres run by voluntary organisations in Barnet.
Third Party Reporting Centres are organisations that have agreed to make reports to the police on behalf of victims who do not want to go directly to the police.
This service is provided in addition to the organisations' core services.
As a member of the Barnet Network of Reporting Centres, you can choose to report to Middlesex University via our online Report.It.To.Stop.It form .
You may choose to report to the University for a number of reasons:
You can choose to provide your contact details or to report anonymously.
If you choose to report anonymously, the University will not be able to contact you to provide further guidance.
However, the information you provide will still be of value, helping us to better understand incidents within the local borough of Barnet and what’s needed to better protect our community from future harm.
Throughout the reporting process, you will be treated with sensitivity and you won’t be expected to talk about anything which isn’t essential.
The upmost regard will be given to confidentiality at all times.
However, please be aware that documents used in the reporting process could be requested by the police and in certain cases, University staff could be asked to give evidence in court.
The University will not share your personal details with any third party.
However, the University will disclose the nature of the information you report to the Barnet Hate Crime co-ordinator to collate, for example, the number and type of incidents occurring in the Borough.
Note, individuals will not be identified when any information is shared.
Hate incidents are acts of violence or hostility directed against someone because of who they are or who someone else thinks they are.
The term includes criminal offences (hate crimes) and noncriminal acts (hate incidents).
A hate incident can be a classified as a hate crime if it is carried out because of hostility or prejudice based on disability, race, religion, transgender identity or sexual orientation.
Incidents motivated by other personal characteristics may not be classified as a hate crime under law though the police are still able to take action and prosecute.
Persons or organisations external to the University should find out more about our procedure to make an external complaint.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/student-life/sport-and-fitness/middlesex-olympians:
We have had the honour to support some amazing athletes on their journey to success, including
Here are a few of their stories.
Photography graduate Ashleigh Nelson, who was part of the Athletics team while at Middlesex participated in her third Olympics in the GB women’s 4x100m relay team.
Ashleigh has won many medals in her careers and later won Gold for GB at the 2022 Commonwealth Games in Birmingham as part of the 4 x 100 metres relay squad.
Cyrille represented the IOC Refugee Team.
He had trained with MDX’s head of weightlifting Shyam Chavda for the previous five years.
Aged 19, Cyrille represented Cameroon at the 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow and then gained refugee status in 2016.
He pursued a BSc Mental Health Nursing degree at Middlesex after experiencing mild depression while claiming asylum, and now works as a mental health nurse.
Cyrille was chosen as one of six athletes to carry the Olympic flag into the National Stadium at the opening ceremony
Cyrille holds three Senior British weightlifting gold medals, five Senior English gold medals and three British University and Colleges Gold Medals.
He was MDX Sportsman of the Year for four years from 2017-2020.
Meanwhile Sports Science alumnus Lutalo Muhammad, a taekwondo bronze medallist at the 2012 London Games and a silver medallist at Rio, unable to compete due to injury, delighted many viewers with his expert analysis of the bouts from MediaCityUK in Salford.
Lutalo is the most successful male in British taekwondo history, according to Wikipedia.
He developed his confidence, drive and skill while studying for a BSc in Sport and Exercise Science at Middlesex.
He represented Great Britain at the 2012 Summer Olympics, winning a bronze medal, and the 2016 Summer Olympics, winning a silver medal.
He won the gold medal in the −87 kg class at the 2012 European Taekwondo Championships.
Olympic champion and fine art alumnus Joe Joyce discovered he could excel at both boxing and painting while studying at Middlesex University.
Joe has fond memories of his time at Middlesex, relishing the freedom it gave him and the chance to unite his two seemingly opposite passions.
Despite looking like he was destined for a career in super heavyweight boxing, an Achilles heel injury and niggling self-doubt made him question whether he had what it took to get to the top.
So in his final year he took to the gym to train in boxing instead.
As of October 2022, he is ranked as the world's second-best active heavyweight by the Transnational Boxing Rankings Board.
He currently holds a 93% knockout-to-win percentage.
He has gone on to win British, Commonwealth, European, and World Championship medals and, a silver Olympic medal at the Rio Olympics 2016.
Record-breaking swimmer and former MDX Neuroscience student Alice Tai is now a world champion in seven different events.
She has been competing at the highest level since 12-years-old after learning to walk again following surgery to amputate her right leg below the knee.
In the 2016 Paralympics she won the 100m medley relay gold.
The same year, she was awarded an MBE for her services was named the Sunday Times Disability Sportswoman of the Year in 2019.At the Birmingham 2022 Commonwealth Games Alice won a gold medal in the Para- Swimming event
Alice studied music at the University of West London originally but decided to change her study path.
She always “loved the concept of neuroscience”, and was impressed by MDX’s record of nurturing top sporting students such as British taekwondo star Lutalo Muhammad.
James-Andrew Davis, former student on BSc Psychology at Middlesex, attended his second Olympic Games to represent Team GB in the men’s individual foil in 2016.
He was defeated in the round of 16 after comfortably winning his round of 32 bout.
James was also excited about coming back to Middlesex:
Ojie was a member of the England 4 x 400 metre relay team that won at the 2022 Commonwealth Games, and is a European junior and under-23 champion in the 100 metres.
Former Sport and Exercise Science student Ojie Edoborun also travelled to Rio for the 2016 Olympics as part of the men's 4x100m relay squad.
BSc Sport & Exercise Science (2016) graduate Fil Kamps is an elite deaf football player who has competed in a World Cup, the Deaflympics and four Champions League campaigns.
Find out how our scholarship programme has helped local athletes.
Olympios Gougoulias, an economics student, was competing in the under 2 junior category for the last time.
Find out more about Middlesex University's sporting facilities .

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/student-life/sport-and-fitness/sport-for-community-members:
Our excellent gym and sports facilities are also open to the local community.
Join our Fitness Pod and enjoy full access to the Fitness Pod gym, exciting leisure classes plus reduced rates on our outdoor AstroTurf 3G pitch and multi activity courts.
It's excellent value at just £19.50 per month.
With no joining fee and no contract.
Opening Hours: Mon - Fri 6.15am - 10.00pm.
Weekends 9.00am - 5.00pm
Download the app today from iTunes or Google Play and book your leisure classes on the move.
We want everyone to be able to use our facilities.
If you have a disability which you think may be stopping you from using our facilities, talk to us.
Contact The Fitness pod reception on 020 8411 6343 or email the fitness pod .
We are always happy to help.
Category
Period
MU Student
MU Staff
Community
Student Off Peak
Annual (Academic Year) 1 Sept - 31 May
£30
Full Fitness
Annual
£160
£180
£195
Monthly DD
£16
£18
£19.50
Competitive Sports
£60
Pay & Play
Registration fee
Session fee
£6
No Ties
Monthly
£35
Includes anytime use of gym during opening hours plus full access to leisure classes, plus free pitch and court booking at off-peak times.
Pay a one-off registration fee and pay a session fee each time you use the gym or attend a leisure class.
We have lots of different leisure classes on offer, delivered by qualified instructors.
They're a great way to keep fit and have fun.
Classes are open to members and non-members.
All leisure classes advertised are included in our Full Fitness memberships.
You can book a class using the Fitness Pod app, or by booking in via our electronic kiosk outside the gym, or by visiting the Fitness Pod reception.
Achieve your goals in half the time with our experienced personal trainers.
You will receive expert guidance on a one-to-one basis, with plenty of encouragement to motivate you and maximise the benefits from your workout.
Whether you want to lose weight, shape and tone or build muscle, whatever your goal, we can help you achieve it.
For more information on prices and availability please contact our resident Personal Trainers or contact The Fitness Pod reception on 020 8411 6343.
We're offering a great offer for personal training where you can receive your first session for just £20, then £40 per one hour session going forward or you can schedule a block of sessions to save money.
Book 5 sessions at £175, or 10 sessions for £350.
To book contact 020 8411 6343 or email the fitness pod .
Or contact our personal trainers by email:
Email Carlos Castro
Email Federico Domanico
Email Adrian Rogers
External Personal Trainers:
Email Danny Digweed or call him on 07957 230 070
Each new member taking out an annual membership at The Fitness Pod, receives a personalised programme to help them make the most of their membership, with a programme tailored to your requirements.
Programmes can be developed to enable you to achieve weight loss, increase strength, help rehabilitation, support specific sport performance and more.
Your first programme is free when you join as a member.
Each programme after that is £10.
Please book your first session with the MDX Fitness Pod, who will also be able to process your package payments.
For more information, please email us .
For more information on all classes and memberships contact The Fitness Pod on 020 8411 6343 or email the fitness pod or come and visit us downstairs in MDX House.
Our terms and conditions can be found here on the reverse side of the membership form.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/mdx-voices/a-students-introduction-to-beng-mechatronics-and-robotics-engineering-at-mdx:
22 August 2025
Article Written By
When I attended the university's open day, I was absolutely amazed by all the equipment available to students.
Since I was 11, I have been learning about robotics by taking apart broken electronics and buying components from eBay with whatever pocket money I had.
I chose to study at MDX primarily because of the access to these state-of-the-art facilities.
On the robotics side, you can work on projects involving advanced mobile robots and industrial robotic manipulators.
On the mechatronics side, you have access to 'cyber-physical laboratories' and 'MPS stations,' which are essentially mini factories incorporating actual industry-standard technology for hands-on learning.
Not only is this equipment incredibly expensive, but it also prepares you to integrate seamlessly into the industry after graduation.
I think the teaching is fantastic.
The content is highly relevant, and the tutors are always willing to assist with any doubts you may have.
There is a strong emphasis not only on technical content but also on understanding how the engineering industry operates and preparing you for life beyond graduation.
Additionally, you are offered numerous extracurricular opportunities, such as guest lectures, WorldSkills, and the IMechE Design Challenge, to help you grow beyond the classroom.
I believe the course is preparing me exceptionally well for my future career and prospects.
For instance, in the second year, there is an entire module called 'Engineering in Context,' which focuses on understanding the engineering industry in the real world.
This module features guest lectures from seasoned industry professionals across a wide range of fields, who share their experiences firsthand.
You are also strongly encouraged to pursue a placement year, and must apply for placements independently, just as you would apply for jobs after graduation.
MDXworks, the careers service, provides subject-specific guidance to help you tailor your CV and cover letter for employers.
Personally, I had Rabia, who was incredibly helpful in improving my CV and enhancing my overall job application skills.
On the technical side, the course teaches you how to use a variety of industry-standard software such as Siemens NX, Plant Simulation, ROS, PLC Programming, TIA Portal, SOLIDWORKS, Git, and more.
Almost all of the software we use requires special licenses, and the equipment (especially in mechatronics) is identical to what you’d find in the industry.
This gives you the opportunity to gain hands-on experience with the tools and technologies used in the robotics and mechatronics sectors, which would be hard to achieve without the resources provided by the university.
That’s not even mentioning the multitude of opportunities to participate in competitions and get noticed by industry professionals early on.
I recently won a gold medal in the WorldSkills National Automation competition, which opened many doors for me to network with industry experts and gain valuable insights on how to advance my engineering career after graduation.
Aside from the access to facilities and equipment (can you tell I love the facilities and equipment?), I also love the fact there are so many fun societies and well-organized events – something for everyone.
For example, I really enjoy attending the Games Society, where we gather every Friday in the Vine Building to play our favourite video games.
It’s incredibly fun, and I’ve made so many amazing friends through it.
I believe MDX provides sufficient support for your studies.
While they won’t hold your hand, the tutors always respond promptly, clearly, and concisely.
They are consistently supportive, and beyond that, there are numerous additional resources available, such as the library, UniHelp, and more.
Overall, it has been an incredibly enjoyable and fulfilling experience, where my skills have grown beyond what I could have imagined, and I feel confident that I can pursue the career and life I aspire to and one I will be proud of.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/mdx-voices/a-day-in-the-life-of-a-criminology-student:
3 July 2025
Living in Enfield and studying at Middlesex University in Hendon means I start my day with a commute, taking about an hour and a half.
That might seem long to most people, but for me, it’s actually one of the best parts of the day.
It’s a peaceful time to unwind, listen to music, and mentally prepare myself for the day.
If I’m feeling up to it, which is pretty rare, I also use this time to go over lecture notes or catch up on readings.
Once I arrive on campus, my first stop is usually the MDX House.
It’s one of my favourite places on campus because it has a great social atmosphere.
This building is full of activity with a variety of food places like Greggs, Subway, and Tortilla.
It’s a great social spot as it has a lounging area, pool tables, and plenty of seating.
Grabbing a hot chocolate at Greggs is a must before heading to my lectures.
If I have a lot of time before lectures or just need a change in atmosphere, I sometimes take a walk to Sunny Hill Park, which is right behind the campus.
It’s a beautiful green space.
The best part of the park is the amazing view you get from the top of the hill.
On clear days you get a vast view of the city, including the Wembley Stadium.
It’s a beautiful place to sit and breathe.
During breaks, there are plenty of food options both on campus and off campus, and I often head to one of the chicken and chip shops down the road for a chicken wrap, or to Subway to get nachos.
When I have secured the food, I like to hang out with my friends outside the College Building, where there are pods with sheltered seating.
It’s great to relax and socialise with friends whilst enjoying my well-deserved meal.
When I need to focus on assignments, the library is the best place to go.
It’s big, quiet, and well-equipped with computers, books, and study areas.
There's plenty of seating, so finding a spot to work isn’t a problem.
The library staff are really helpful when it comes to finding resources or even getting help with how to reference in your assignments.
I usually study alone, but on days when group work is required such as for presentations, the study rooms are perfect for brainstorming and working with others.
Studying BSc Criminology (Policing and Investigations) means my lectures and workshops are always engaging.
Some days involve intense discussions on case studies, while other days include practical exercises.
The lecturers are fun, friendly, and supportive, making students feel at ease.
We cover a lot of things, my favourite being the variety of theories connected to criminal behaviour.
Outside of academics, I try to make time for extracurricular activities.
The University offers a range of societies and clubs, and although I haven’t yet found the perfect one for me, it’s good to know that there are so many options.
There’s always something happening on the main campus, whether it’s an event, guest talks, or social gatherings, which can be a great way to meet new people and build connections.
There are employer networking events almost every week, which gives us a chance to gain information and connect with different industries.
It gives us insight into the different industries and jobs we could do after we complete our degrees.
After I finish all my lectures, I begin my journey back home.
This gives me a chance to unwind, reflect on the day, and catch up with my messages and social media.
By the time I get home, I usually go straight on Netflix or Fortnite (occasionally Roblox).
Even though my course is very academic and requires studying I haven’t lost my motivation or touch for creative arts.
I think this is partially because the university and staff try to make our university experience as friendly and supportive as possible.
Drawing has always been a passion of mine, and I make sure to dedicate time to it when I don’t have university commitments.
It gives me a way to express myself and unwind from the demands of my course, as well as to connect with people online.
I believe that the university does a great job at balancing students’ workload, allowing me to enjoy both the structures of my course and the freedom to socialise and express myself.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/mdx-voices/qa-with-angelica-ngoma:
I chose this course because of my passion for working with children and my interest in understanding their development, learning and well-being.
Early childhood is a critical stage in life and I was motivated to learn how this could impact a child’s development.
This course offers skills and theoretical knowledge in child psychology and education, with analysis of the academic disciplines, which allows me to reflect on issues affecting early childhood.
Reflection has been essential for analysing how child development is managed in a holistic way, enabling me to critically assess theoretical practice.
Communication has been pivotal to network with, learn from and collaborate with peers, academics and practitioners.
My ability to engage in critical thinking has developed through lectures and assessments, especially in modules such as Children and Families in a Diverse Environment.
Understanding race, gender, inequality and inclusive practices has enabled me to advocate for creating safe and inclusive learning spaces for children.
Placements have been invaluable in applying theoretical knowledge into practice.
I’ve gained first-hand work experience and insight into the role of early years practitioners.
My volunteering work and understanding of contemporary issues in early years has enabled me to explore the impact of poverty, social class and the emotional aspects of a child’s development.
Learning how children experience racism and inequalities in professional settings has also made me a more conscious and critical early years practitioner.
It will open a variety of career opportunities for me.
I am passionate about working in early years and would like to progress to roles such as a PGCFE postgraduate student to become a college lecturer.
I’d also love to work in child policy and advocacy, providing information to support early years professionals, children and their families.
The knowledge and skills I have gained empower me to work in a range of diverse contexts.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/mdx-voices/renowned-british-photographer-tim-walker-visited-middlesex-university:
In an intimate afternoon spent with our staff and students, I had the honour of interviewing British photographer Tim Walker.
He cherry-picked stories and photographs from the most relevant and significant chapters of his life, ranging from his rudimentary beginnings and ‘making do’ to his latest project in India.
This new body of work, inspired by the Kama Sutra, is a celebration of India’s queer community and is set to be exhibited at The Portrait Gallery in 2026.
Tim’s portraits have graced the front covers of magazines including Vogue and i-D, and his solo exhibitions at major galleries consistently sell out.
Warm, open, and charismatic from the onset, he told his life stories with honesty and humour.
He spoke about his ‘militant training’ in the nineties, when he worked as assistant number four to the legendary Richard Avedon in New York.
That experience, he explained, helped shape the photographer he is today.
Observing Avedon shock, surprise, and tantalise his subjects, Tim learned first-hand the importance of roleplaying and storytelling—approaches he has embraced ever since.
Throughout our conversation, Tim emphasised to students the importance of being resourceful, staying open to serendipity, and finding joy in imperfection.
He generously shared tips and advice drawn from his own journey.
His stance was humble and honest, and he was keen to share both mistakes and lessons learned.
One point he made really stood out: never show your work until you’re completely sure it’s finished.
That one chance to make an impact, he reminded us, is too valuable to waste.
He also encouraged students to keep sketchbooks as constant sources of inspiration - timeless references that evolve alongside us.
What resonated most with me, and I believe with everyone in the room, was how human Tim remains despite his legendary status.
He admitted he’s still learning to let go, still working on not worrying, and still choosing to embrace the imperfect.
In a time so often dominated by filters and AI, his words were a soothing reminder of the beauty in authenticity.
-    Nicky Mace, Lecturer on BA Photography at Middlesex University

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/mdx-voices/from-virtual-beginnings-to-biomedical-success-at-middlesex:
2 April 2025
Joining during the COVID-19 pandemic meant my first year of university was entirely virtual.
This meant most of my interactions with lecturers and students were through online lectures and seminars.
However, being part of a socially enthusiastic academic year group meant I was able to communicate and connect to other students through group projects and social media.
During my third year of studies, I was able to undertake a placement opportunity.
This involved completing an iBMS portfolio by Dr Thamarai Janganan, the head of placements on my programme.
After undergoing an application and two interview processes, I was selected for the Applied Biomedical Science BSc course.
Here, I would spend a year in a lab collecting evidence for my own iBMS portfolio and HCPC license.
I was told about the highly selective process.
Despite this, through support from the University, I received multiple offers from different laboratories to complete my placement year.
Out of these, I chose to accept the offer from UCLH Biochemistry, who work as part of The Doctors Laboratory (TDL) and Health Services Laboratories (HSL).
During my year in the laboratory, I was able to greatly expand on my communication, teamwork, safety and confidentiality skills.
I also learned how to use various analysers such as the Cobas 8000 and Cobas 8100.
In addition to biochemistry, I was able to network and interact with other departments including haematology, blood transfusion and haemostasis, all of which helped me to expand knowledge of my subject area.
After completing my portfolio, one of the final stages of the placement and iBMS portfolio processes is to complete a verification.
Here, a verifier from an external site would assess my knowledge and understanding of the portfolio modules.
The verifier, Syeda, was considerably impressed by both my portfolio and performance on the verification day.
She stated: [Kabir] “is a credit to his training officer”, and outlined how the evidence in the portfolio was very “out of the box”, and “one of the best portfolios” she had verified.
After completing the placement year, I was now eligible for a HCPC license to professionally practice the role of a biomedical scientist, and had received four potential job offers.
I am now practising in special coagulation (haemostasis), a specialist department, and working towards becoming a specialist biomedical scientist.
I have also since returned to Middlesex University, attending an open evening to speak and help guide new students on their journey.
Dr Thamarai Janganan described Kabir as “set for life”.
Kabir’s journey from starting university during a pandemic to securing a specialist role in biomedical science is a great example of how undertaking career opportunities and taking advantage of the support available within the Faculty of Science and Technology can equip you for success.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/mdx-voices/top-travel-tips-for-campus-life-in-london:
The best way to get around campus?
For me, it’s definitely walking.
It gives me a chance to explore various parts of the University, enjoy the architecture, and just take in the surroundings.
Plus, walking is great for my daily step count and overall health.
The transport connections around Middlesex University are really good, whether you’re heading to class or exploring different areas of London.
I live in Platt Hall, and it takes me about 20 minutes to walk to campus.
If I’m in a rush or it’s raining, I just hop on a bus.
It’s only a 10-minute ride, and buses come every 10-15 minutes, so it’s super convenient.
Since I live in halls, I don’t really use trains daily.
But Hendon train station is very close to the University, making it easy to get around when needed.
There are also plenty of bus stops right in front of campus, which makes travelling even more accessible.
If I’m heading further into London, I usually take the Tube or a bus, depending on where I’m going.
The best part about my accommodation is that there’s a station just a short walk away, so whenever I want to go further out, I can just step out and get going.
If I’m going somewhere nearby, I’ll take the bus.
But if I want to reach central London quickly, the Tube is my go-to.
It’s a bit pricier, but with a Student Oyster card, I get discounts – which helps a lot.
London transport can be expensive, but it’s all about finding ways to save money.
Buses are usually cheaper, and walking is always free!
Also, avoiding peak travel times helps, since fares are lower outside rush hours.
One of the craziest travel experiences I’ve had was on New Year’s Eve.
After the fireworks, thousands of people were trying to get on the Tube at the same time.
It was honestly a nightmare – so many people crammed into one place, and it took forever to get anywhere.
But I was with my friends, so we made the best of it.
Generally, late-night buses are a lifesaver.
Instead of struggling to get on a packed Tube, I tend to just take one direct bus from central London to my accommodation.
No stress, no changing lines – just one ride home.
As an international student, I had no clue how things worked at first.
Even crossing the road felt different!
But I picked up some useful travel tips along the way:
Getting around London as a student can be challenging at first, but being based in north London is the perfect setting to access the city.
Whether it's walking, taking the bus, or hopping on the Tube, you're always a short time away from exciting industry events that enhance your future opportunities or fun days out with friends.
With a Student Oyster card, it's easy to save money and avoid the rush.
London’s transport system might seem overwhelming, but once you get the hang of it, the city is so much fun to explore.
We’re glad Sanskruti has been able to make the most of being in London.
Find out more about MDX campus life.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/mdx-voices/martine-rose-fashion-and-kendrick-lamars-super-bowl-jacket:
As the Head of Middlesex's School of Design, it’s always a great pleasure to see our alumni succeed.
Recently, you might have seen Martine Rose making headlines when she dressed Kendrick Lamar for his Super Bowl performance.
As he took the stage in February 2025, I think it’s fair to say Kendrick Lamar’s bold, oversized custom jacket captured the world’s attention.
It was designed by Martine Rose, a Middlesex alumna, and here's how it exemplifies her fearless creativity.
Growing up in Croydon, Martine drew inspiration from her British-Jamaican heritage and the vibrant streetwear scene in London.
Her professional path began at Middlesex, where she studied BA Fashion with us.
Her designs celebrate diversity and self-expression, merging various artistic traditions.
Martine’s unconventional approach disrupts fashion norms.
I believe Middlesex students experience this same energy daily, surrounded by a diverse campus of like-minded individuals passionate about creativity and art.
At Middlesex, there’s no “house style” - we empower our students to find their own creative voice.
Since launching her label in 2007, Martine’s become renowned for breaking fashion rules, blending underground street style with high-end craftsmanship.
She’s worked with major brands like Balenciaga, Nike, and Clarks.
Kendrick Lamar’s Super Bowl jacket is the ultimate example of what her passion and talents have achieved.
Martine's work embodies the idea that originality beats following trends.
This ethos aligns with Middlesex’s encouragement for students to carve their own creative paths.
I think that Martine Rose’s success shows that there’s no single path to greatness – it's about making your own.
For creative thinkers seeking a place where they’ll be understood and supported, Middlesex is the ideal environment.
With the right community and support, bold ideas can change the world.
Martine’s journey turned her from a student brimming with ideas, to a globally recognised designer.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/mdx-voices/how-the-creative-arts-transform-knowledge-into-action:
Imagine stepping into history, culture, and creativity all at once.
This is the theatre magic of the Newham Plays by our James Kenworth, Senior Lecturer in Creative Writing.
Performed in the heart of East London’s docklands, these immersive productions bring together professional actors and young local talent, transforming everyday spaces into vibrant stages of storytelling.
More than just performances, they are living, breathing histories – sparking pride, connection, and artistic growth.
Young people from all backgrounds gain invaluable experience, while Arts and Creative Industry students take on key roles behind the scenes, shaping the future of arts management.
This spirit of transformation extends beyond performance into physical spaces through our Director of Interior Architecture and Design Programmes Francesca Murialdo’s work on adaptive reuse as a social practice.
Rethinking spaces to foster inclusivity, sustainability, and engagement, she collaborates with councils and organisations, integrating research directly into teaching.
Students gain hands-on experience in community-led design, learning how architecture and creativity intersect to shape more inclusive urban environments.
Meanwhile, the echoes of history come alive through the remarkable work of BA Film students, who have documented the reconstruction of ancient brass instruments with world-renowned music archaeologist Peter Holmes.
These historical sounds have not only been preserved but have made their way into the soundtracks of Gladiator II and Nosferatu, connecting academic research to global cinematic storytelling.
Since 2023, BA Film students have also been recording interviews with local members of the Windrush generation, an initiative led by Vesna Lukic.
This powerful project links teaching, knowledge exchange, and research, ensuring that vital stories of resilience and heritage are preserved for future generations.
Across disciplines, our students actively shape the creative landscape, whether through performance, design, or historical preservation.
Mike Dines elevates the Sex Pistols to Plato in his punk philosophy series.
Meanwhile, Claire Farmer brings South Asian dance into SEND schools, using movement and rhythm to support children with specialist needs.
These projects illustrate how the arts serve as a bridge between disciplines, communities, and generations – empowering young people at Middlesex to see themselves as part of a larger creative legacy.
In your Faculty of Arts and Creative Industries , we don’t just teach creativity – we help you discover who you are, and create opportunities for you to experience and develop your creative spirit first-hand.
Come to Middlesex and find yourself.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/mdx-voices/a-journey-of-storytelling-art-and-inclusive-practice:
I’ve combined my work as Programme Leader for Creative Writing and Journalism and Director of Theatre, Creative Writing and Journalism with a visiting fellowship at Exeter College in Oxford.
Through this, I curated and arranged an immersive day of creative activities at Oxford for third year Creative Writing and Journalism students from Middlesex on Tuesday 25 February.
The day included a morning panel and creative workshop with Chrissie Chevasutt, author and chaplain for the trans community in Oxford, together with Mordechai Rodda, a queer classical scholar exploring disability and transformative journeys.
Alongside myself, sharing my own journey from rabbinical training to novelist, we modelled sharing our challenges and vulnerability as a kind of strength.
The participants, who included both Middlesex and Oxford students, were then invited to share their own personal stories of transformation.
The listener transcribed the story of the person they had listened to as if it were their own.
This creative, empathic listening led to participants feeling “heard”, “seen” and understood.”
After a spot of lunch, the day continued in the Ashmolean, with a behind-the-scenes look at objects and artefacts from the Museum’s collection.
This included handling rare Rembrandt sketches under the guidance of Teaching Curator Jim Harris.
Rembrandt’s deep connection to the Jewish community in Amsterdam became the platform for my own interfaith creative workshop in the Museum.
Students responded creatively to biblical paintings by Rembrandt and his students.
We also looked at three different versions of the Yusuf and Zuleika story in the Islamic art section.
The day concluded with choral evensong at the Exeter chapel, which Tolkien attended as a student, and a meal for students who chose to stay with the Oxford choir.
Afterwards, some feedback comments included:
Altogether a fulfilling, exhilarating, and exhausting day.
We are now planning to run this event again next term, to model inclusive listening and creative practice.
These are great strengths of the Middlesex creative community, for the entire Oxford Chaplaincy and the LGBTQ community.
Watch this space!
Ariel’s work has enabled so many students to find new creative layers and expressions.
Find out more about creative media and writing at MDX.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/mdx-voices/a-marketing-student-goes-beyond-the-books:
The alarm blares at 9am.
I drag myself out of bed, getting back into the swing of things.
Living in south-west London and studying in north London means I’ve got an hour-long commute to Middlesex University in Hendon.
Not ideal, but by now, I’ve kind of made peace with it...
By 10am I’m out the door, headphones in, either some Netflix or some music blasting to get me through the journey.
Commuting is not for the weak – it’s all about surviving rush hour – but it’s also my little pocket of time to wake up properly.
Some days I catch up on emails if I’m feeling productive.
But, let’s be real, most days I'm just zoning out until I get to campus.
Before I know it, I’m stepping off the train, freezing my butt off, and heading straight to uni.
The cold makes me miss my bed, but the energy of campus life wakes me up.
I usually get to campus around 11am, just in time for a coffee run before my first class.
The campus is buzzing – students everywhere, rushing to class, hanging out, or chatting in little groups.
I grab my usual flat white from Costa (a lifesaver at this point) and head to my first lecture.
First up today: Financial Performance Management.
It’s one of my new modules this semester, and definitely a switch-up from last term.
Our last lesson was mostly going through the module handbook, but today we’re diving into supply and demand concepts.
Honestly, it’s not as boring as it might sound at first!
It’s actually making me think differently about how economics ties into marketing and business.
It’s a challenge, though, so I know I’m going to have to really put the work in for this one.
By the time the lecture ends I’m starving, so I head to MDX House for lunch.
It’s my favourite spot on campus, always buzzing with people catching up, eating, or just hanging out.
I grab my usual naked burrito bowl from Tortilla (because why mess with a good thing?) and find a spot to sit.
There’s something cosy about being inside, warm, and surrounded by people, especially when it’s freezing outside.
Lunch is my reset time whether I’m chatting with friends or just people-watching, a nice breather before the afternoon grind.
After lunch, it’s library time.
The Sheppard Library has basically become my second home on campus.
It’s huge, and has the perfect vibe for getting stuff done.
I usually grab a spot by the windows (natural light makes such a difference when you’re staring at notes for hours).
I spend a good chunk of time reviewing today’s lecture notes for Financial Performance Management.
It’s a lot of reading and wrapping my head around the basics, but I’m taking it slow and trying not to get overwhelmed.
Once I’m done with that, I prepare myself for my second lesson of the day: Data and Digital Technologies.
This one’s right up my alley, it’s all about social media analytics, tracking engagement, and measuring campaign success.
It’s actually so interesting, and I can already see how this will be super useful when I start working on real projects.
By 6pm, I’m done for the day.
I pack up my stuff and head home.
The train ride back is my time to decompress, either by scrolling through Instagram for inspiration or just zoning out with music.
When I finally step off the train in south-west London, the freezing air hits me, and I’m just like: Ahhhh, what a day.
I can’t help but laugh at the thought of the Harvey Price “What a day” meme – such a random moment, but it sums up my day perfectly.
Once I’m home, it’s dinner and Netflix time to fully switch off.
Later, I might do some prep for tomorrow or catch up on reading, but I try not to overdo it.
It feels like I’m making progress and getting closer to where I want to be.
A lot of work is ahead, but I’m ready for it.
Gaby seems to have perfected the work-life balance.
Find out more about how marketing courses at MDX help you reach your goals.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/course-fees-and-costs-for-international-students/course-payment-methods-for-international-students:
Before starting your course there will be a number of payments that you will need to make to the university, including your tuition deposit, tuition fees, and accommodation fees.
There are a number of ways that you can make a payment, including our applicant portal, Convera, or an alternative payment method that is specific to your country.
As an international student, you can pay by credit or debit card through the online Applicant Portal .
If you pay in this way, then:
You may be advised by your bank that your tuition fee payment exceeds your current credit facility or that your card is not authorised for International transfers.
We would advise in such instances that you ensure that your card is approved for International payments and request an increase in your credit limit with your bank.
To ensure that you do not breach your credit limit you can split your payment into smaller amounts to ensure that you remain within your credit limit.
Middlesex University has partnered with Convera to provide you with a quick and easy way to pay your fees.
Convera GlobalPay for Students allows you to pay student fees in the currency of your choice and then provides you with a simple and secure way to initiate payment.
Using Convera GlobalPay reduces lost payments and gives you get peace of mind that your full payment is received by us.
This service allows you to see the exact cost of your payment in your local currency and the quote given will be honoured for 72 hours.
You can then contact your bank to arrange payment or carry out the transfer online.
This is easier and cheaper than ordering a banker's draft from your bank and the payment will reach your University account more quickly.
You can also track your payment .
Telephone: 01733 871 871
Submit a ticket: https://students.convera.com/#!/contacts
There is customer support service to help you at every step.
Service is between 9am to 5pm (UK time) and Monday to Friday only.
To send an international payment to Middlesex use TransferMate to pay in your local currency by bank transfer or APM such as Alipay or Trustly where available.
Convera offers alternative payment methods as a secure way for you to pay your tuition fees.
eWallet payment methods provide a secure place where you can store funds to be used online and Convera offers the following eWallet and online payment options solutions:
At Middlesex University, we strive to provide flexible payment options for all our students.
However, we understand that external factors such as international sanctions may sometimes pose challenges to certain students who wish to pay via Convera.
Therefore, we remind affected students that they can still pay their tuition fees using a debit or credit card via our convenient and secure applicant portal or automated telephone payment service line: +44(0) 208 411 6400.
To find out more about our payment methods, please visit our Payment methods page.
Your tuition deposit will be deducted from the total amount of your tuition fees.
For example, if your tuition fees are £14,500, and you pay a tuition deposit of £7,500, you will only need to pay £7,000.
The remaining amount needs to be paid either in full at or before enrolment or by the appropriate available instalment dates.
You will need to have paid your tuition fees in full or by available instalments either before or at enrolment.
You may pay tuition fees in instalments.
Further information on available instalment plans.
Your deposit is only refundable in the following circumstances:
Important things to note:
We can only refund money to the account from which payment was made originally.
It cannot be transferred to another individual.
If you have begun your studies, any refunds will then fall in line with normal University withdrawal policies.
We have lots of scholarships available for international students.
Find out more about which scholarships you might be eligible for.
To work out the total cost of studying abroad at Middlesex, you need to consider the following:
For specific information to support North and South American students, including the MYCEST scholarship and FAFSA information, please visit our dedicated International offices webpage.
We’ll ask you to make an advance rent payment of £300 when you accept an offer of accommodation.
If you need to cancel the room before the start of term, and there’s enough time for the student to take it, then we’ll refund any money you’ve paid.
Find out more about accommodation fees .
If you need more support, contact us, Monday-Friday, 9am to 5pm on +44 (0)20 8411 5555 or via chat with a team member who will be able to offer you more information.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/course-fees-and-costs-for-international-students/scholarship-information-for-international-students:
Scholarships, bursaries, and awards can reduce your tuition fees or help pay your living expenses, and you won’t be expected to pay this money back.
Find out which awards you might be eligible for by reading the information below.
You can apply for as many scholarship awards that you are eligible for.
However, you can only be awarded a maximum of one scholarship.
Amount of Scholarship: Course fees reduction for the first year of study
Eligibility : Talented students who have demonstrated high levels of academic excellence in their previous studies
How to apply: Contact your International Office
Amount of Scholarship: Full Postgraduate tuition fees
Eligibility:
How to apply: Apply directly through Chevening
Amount of Scholarship: Full tuition fee payment, accommodation costs and a monthly living allowance.
Eligibility :
How to apply:
For more information and to apply for a scholarship, visit the MESCyT website .
Amount of Scholarship: The scholarship will fund tuition fees and living expenses in London for the duration of the course.
Eligibility: High achieving student who is a permanent resident in China and Hong Kong to study full time for a one-year masters course, in an Art and Design discipline at Middlesex University.
The student will be assessed on their design skills and ability by our academic staff in London and our Asia Pacific Regional Hub.
How to apply: Contact the Asia Pacific Regional Hub for more details.
How to apply: More information and the application form
In order to continue our support for European students, we are offering a bursary to offer holders who start their studies in January and September 2026.
European Academic Awards
Please note that EU/EEA citizens with pre-settled or settled status are not eligible for the award.
Many governments also offer funding to help their students to study abroad.
Check your country's Ministry of Education to see if there is any assistance available to you, visit your country information page , or contact your nearest International office.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/international-students---arrival-and-enrolment-:
We can’t wait to welcome you to our London campus!
There are lots of ways you can prepare to start your studies and get settled in the UK.
Catch-up with our webinar recordings to find out more about how to prepare yourself for coming to the UK, and everything you need to know about enrolment.
My name is Gabriella.
Thank you for joining us today.
I hope everyone is having a good time right now we're just going to talk a little bit about Middlesex University and the process of arriving at Middlesex.
As I said, my name is Gabrielle and I'm the regional officer for the Americas and Caribbean regional office.
I am also joined by Zee and Artisa who are student ambassadors and they will tell us a bit about their experience too.
We will be talking about the different stages, some things to keep in mind before and after you arrive in the UK and also share a little bit of the international orientation program and that stuff.
And after they speak, I'll do a little Q&A section.
So if you have questions, start putting them on the chat, start preparing for them, because we will have some time to answer those.
So without further ado, let's get started.
So let some things in mind before you arrive in the UK.
So as you prepare for your new life as a Londoner, these are some essential recommendations.
So taking on travel insurance in case of any mishaps during your trip, such as the leave on the flight or a loss of a suitcase, for example, those are things to keep in mind.
For those of you who've already applied to your student visa, you'll know that at the end of the application, it was paid a visa application fee plus a health surcharge.
And that fee is determined by the length of time that you will be in the UK.
This will cover your health care during the time in UK, but you can also opt to take out private medical insurance if you wish.
Another common question that we get during this stage is about packing, especially if your transportation company only allows a limited amount of suitcases.
So, think of this, you'll need clothes for all types of weather.
Honestly, those of you who live in the UK will attest to this.
But all type of the weather, most importantly for the winter as that's the fastest approaching after your arrival in January.
So be mindful of that.
And it's also important to note that the UK has strict importation rules.
So, be very careful about packing food items, which you can also very likely find in the UK anyway.
So finally, the most important thing you should remember from this slide is they carry all important documents, including your transcripts, scripts, your English language test if it was part of your application.
Anything that's on your CAD should be on hand luggage because this will be requested at border control.
So be very mindful of that.
We have partnered with a company called Movido and they can give you a discount which is the promo code is MDX2021.
You can find them at go-movido.com And basically, this company just provides support for international students who are getting settled in the UK.
You get something sent over to your house currently, or to accommodation in London.
And they just really help out with all the support, especially in a virtual environment, as we have So, another most, probably the second most important thing that you should know, or probably the first, is to be aware of the travel advice for your country.
You know as many of you in the UK is constantly updating their travel rules due to COVID and experience.
So I advise everyone to keep close attention to that by constantly checking www .gov .uk before their travels.
Two months before your travel, a month before travel days before you travel.
This is constantly being updated and we don't want you to miss out on any important information.
So please keep an eye on that.
And if you're unsure about this, please firstly check the government's website and then contact your regional office because that's what we're here to do.
We're to help.
For example, if coming from a red lip country and it's like a quarantine hotel package before you arrive in the UK.
And you can see currently as of yesterday, the nine, eight, 10 countries that are currently on the red list.
This can be updated tonight, this can updated tomorrow, this change very quickly, so please be mindful of that.
And we also need to take a negative COVID -19 test result.
No more than three days before your flight departs, and then complete a passenger locator form.
This is regardless of vaccination status.
All right, so what to do when you arrive in the UK.
So assuming that you're fully vaccinated, you must still quarantine at home or at the place that your staying until you get the results of your day two COVID test.
If it's negative, then you can leave quarantine, obviously.
We also ask that contact us before arriving in UK so we know how to best support you.
If you're a January starter and you haven't already, then you'll get enrolment details and open up a UniHub account.
Please make sure that you give us the right mobile number and email addresses that will have available in the UK so we know how to contact you.
As a reminder, COVID-19 vaccines are free in UK and if you have not gotten it in your home country, you are still more than welcome to get after your quarantine period ends.
So at the airport, if your a short-term student, please make sure that you get a stamp at the border.
You may be tempted to go through the e -gave, but please do not simply get that stamp.
Basically, an immigration officer will look at your passport, check that your visa and any documents are in place and that any document that they may request.
They should also be satisfied of your English knowledge without the need of an interpreter.
So keep that in mind, be relaxed, speak your best English and communicate fluently.
So the immigration officer will put a stamp on your passport, and you should be good to go.
Some of the documents that you bring with you on the hand luggage are your offer letter from the university, any relevant transcripts, your CAS, any bank statements that this is required for your visa application.
Some countries are exempt, so if this isn't a requirement for a visa, you don't need to show bank statement.
And the accommodation in the UK, such as your hall of residence or wherever it is that you're staying.
Make sure to print this evidence and bring it with you.
Please don't rely on electronic devices because we don t know when they just turn off or lose battery.
So please bring them with us in physical.
Xool.
So after you go through the border control, grab your luggage, you must go to customs, if you have anything to declare, you should go though the red channel.
If you're coming from the EU, then you should join the blue line.
And if yo have nothing to declare, then you can walk through the green line, although keep in mind that an officer can still pull you for extra screening, whichever line you take.
Just be mindful of that.
Alright, so in the UK, yo you can easily find a location we're trying to, you can easily find the location where you're trying to go by simply typing the postcode into any app like Google Maps, Citymapper works really well, and the TfL Journey Planner.
So our campus is located in a neighbourhood called Hendon, which is on the Northern Line in North London.
The nearest tube is the nearest to station is Hendon Central.
And if you're coming from an amber or basically, if you are coming from a green list country, you can make your way to campus on the tube.
Middlesex is partnered with Movido, a company that basically helps international students get settled in the UK.
So it can also include travel from airports.
So you can register using the Middlesex student code, which is MDX 2021, and get your starter pack sent to your current home address before you travel to the UK.
You can also book Addison Lee taxis which offer decent rates and they can even, when you book them online, they can monitor your flight in case if there are any delays.
So it's very convenient and a lot more affordable than the black cap.
All right, so after you settle in, make sure to attend our orientation program, which we'll talk about in just a bit.
Register with your general practitioner or GP, which is your assigned doctor in the UK.
Their surgery or office will likely be closest to where you live.
Also register with the police if and only if this is a requirement.
So if your visa vignette or the sticker on your passport says police registration or register with a police in seven days upon entry or however many days on entry, then you should register with the police.
It costs 34 pounds to register, and you can find more information, including what to bring by searching UK visas and registering with police on www.gov.uk.
The other things to do during your first few weeks from arriving is collecting your BRP card, which is going to be your ID, your national ID in the UK, and opening a bank account.
So you must collect your BRP card within 10 days of arrival in the UK from any post office branch, or the university, depending on where you selected this to go.
When you were applying to your visa.
Please remember to bring your passport and offer letter when you go collect it.
These are very important so you can receive your VRP.
Please note that also to open a bank account you'll need your passport, you will need a bank application form, and the student status letter which you have access to request on UniHUB after you receive the login details.
So please note this might take a while, so it would be a good idea to travel with enough cash and credit or debit cards to go through your first few weeks, I would say even through first month because it may just take a little while to get a UK bank account.
All right, so some of the student support that we give at Middlesex.
Honestly, Middlesex is known for its excellent student supports.
So if you have any questions, we can ask the international students advice team at INT Advice.
That's INTAdvice@mdx.ac.uk.
We also have a Chinese student liaison who helps the university's Chinese community and your regional office can put you in touch with them.
Please reach out to your regional officer.
I'm the Regional Officer for Americas and the Caribbean so if you live in North and South America and The Caribbean by all means feel free to contact me but if you're from another region please contact your Regional Office and they'll be able to tell you more information.
So let's see what we have about the international orientation.
So we will be hosting a hybrid model to January's international student orientation.
So on the 10th and the 11th of January will host various online events, which we invite you to join and on the 27th, we'll host an in-person event to make sure that everybody can join us.
The early arrivals, the later arrivals can all join on us on 27.
So we can make this great event with our big happy family.
You can find more details and register on UniHub.
So please, whenever we have access, go on UniHub, register for the event.
All you need is your name, email address and student ID.
So if you have these three things and you're planning to join us in January, go ahead, go on UniHub and join up for these events.
All right, so that is the end of my presentation, but I will now invite Artisa and Bee to join.
Whoops, none of you can see my slides yet, can you?
Perfect, now you should.
All right, so I'll introduce you to Vi, she's a student ambassador at Middlesex University and Vi wanted to tell us a little bit more about yourself.
Well, hello everyone.
Well my name is Vi and I'm your international student master.
And I will continue the webinar with a bit of self -introduction by myself and share you guys some live experience I have when I arrive to UK and also give you some tips along the way.
So let's get to it then.
So I'm from Vietnam.
Yes, I am Vietnamese and we welcome you guys to come to my country anytime.
Of course, with the coronavirus it's kind of difficult to travel, but still it's worth to visit once in a while so welcome you all to my country and that's it.
It's a little bit brief about myself and now we'll go to my experience about arriving to UK for the first time.
So far I've been UK for nearly four years now and I still remember the first I came to the UK it was a very long queue.
I don't know why it can get that long but maybe people coming at that time they get a little bit excited so but bear in mind that you might have to stand for a queue for about 40 minutes max or 45 minutes but although it's a long queue you should keep yourself hydrating and everything because you will need to get the top of it when you get to the border officer who will assist you with the document and password and everything.
So at the time he was really kind and gentle to me and I feel very welcome when he greet me with a smile and everything so yeah everything went smoothly but the only problem was I I don't know where was my luggage yeah it was horrible like in my country the airport was quite more and then I come to UK is enormous so it's hard to find my luggage I have to ask here oh excuse me so where's my luggage and he help me to help so find help when you can so that was my experience when I drove to KK airport for the first time and the the thing first for when when you come to UK is based on my experience.
The top tip is remember always to forget, sorry, always forget.
Always to collect your BRP first.
That would be your identity to do everything else the following weeks.
So whenever you can, the earliest thing you're gonna do is go to university, sign in and then collect the BRB.
And then you start open your bank account and also register with the Oyster card.
The Oyster card is a travel card that you can use to travel and transport London throughout zone one and zone six.
So I think it's a great offer for you to use the oyster card also to remember to register with your GP near your area as well.
So it helps you with medical problems or if you want to have your vaccine, they also help you with that too.
So that I think is a good thing to do when you have the first free time in your week, although I thought you might be a little bit exhausted in the first week but yeah, that's the thing that you need to want to be aware of when you first come to the UK.
That's enough of the experience when I first arrived to UK, The next one I will talk about my student life as MDX.
So are you aware, I always, sorry, I already as a member of MDx team and my, my degree is BSc Economics and with Foundation Year.
So I have been with MD X for two years, nearly three years now.
So, I, always like to study as Schaffert Library where you can have a lot of area to study and group up with friends and meet up with books.
If you like books like me, then it's a perfect place for you to study.
And you can have some time in joy with a friend in the court.
There's the picture there when you have a big heart with Leonid.
That is the first impression I have when I first come to MBX.
The Christmas tree, if you come a time like this, you see that we also put up the Christmas and some Carol over there to celebrate Christmas.
We have tons of events that you can also take part in as well.
So like international Oriental event and a lot of work opportunity.
You can learn a new language if you register with an LCE exchange scheme where you learn French, Portuguese, Chinese and Spanish.
if you have any interest.
So currently I'm having some Chinese lesson with this scheme and it's going perfectly fine.
So yeah, that's some of my experience that I want to share with you guys as a current student at MDX.
If you haven't a question, just pop me the chat here and then I will answer them.
Thank You.
Thank your V, thank you so much for sharing your experience with us.
So now I'd like to introduce you to Artisa.
He's also a student ambassador and he's going to tell us about himself and about his experience at Middlesex University.
How are you, Artis?
Hello, Gabriel.
Thank you very much for your time and presentation.
Hello everyone.
So my name is Arti, as you can see, and my journey with Middlesec started way long back in 2011 when I was doing my bachelor's.
So I complete my undergrad in 2014, then I completed my master's because I never wanted to leave Middlesex.
So, I truly love Middleses and they even got me a scholarship to do my Master's course.
So i stayed in there, did my Masters, finishing in 2015.
Then I worked for a couple of years, moved to France and I recently, well not recently with the pandemic, I started my PhD in the beginning of the year 2020 and right now I am actually in the library in The Shepherd Library as my my fellow ambassador we was mentioning the Shepherd library.
This is where I'm sitting right now on the first floor.
So any questions during this presentation and webinar feel free to write in their chat box and we'll be happy to assess further.
I'll going through my experience of how life in general is as a MDX student and what to expect about my experiences when I first arrived in the UK.
It was my first international country travel to any other country apart from my home country which is Pakistan.
So I'm a Pakistani, I come from Pakistan, I don't know if you've ever been there, beautiful country especially the North side.
Good food, spicy food.
We love spicy food not as expensive as London so you can buy cheap clothes and you can literally go on a shopping spree if you go to Pakistan especially my city which is Karachi.
So if you have the next slide please.
Right, so my journey with Middlesex has been of complete aspirations and inspiration.
It has given me a lot of personal and professional development skills studying an undergrad course.
There were a lots of conferences that give me their skills to go out there and attract employees.
Because at the end of your degree, that's the most important thing, that you have transferables because of what you've studied at university.
And then you can go out and when you work for an employee, whether or not you'll be able to, you know, use your academic knowledge to work in the practical world.
So here, as my colleague mentioned, we have got Learning Cultural Exchange, where I polished my friend's skills, because when I went to a work with, in France, this language cultural exchange really helped me because it's absolutely free.
You get to meet a lot of students from different part of the world having their own language and that really helped me a little.
Especially and then also when I moved to other conferences and other parts of Europe, my academic modules were drafted in a way that I have to participate in those conferences.
All these international experiences really help me develop my professional skills.
If you have the next slide, and then.
Yeah, so the state of God learning facilities and you know, from the, from as a student that you've got student learning support we have got brilliant faculty members I'm from, I am studying criminology so I from this school of law.
And there is one thing that I can tell you that here at Middlesex, the faculty members are extremely supportive, they're extremely helpful.
I remember in my first year, I was like quite nervous because it was my first ever travel to a different country and then a completely different way of learning, way teaching.
And I was really nervous about when I was coming towards the end of the deadline for submitting my my assessments.
And then I just sent an email to my professor.
And so why don't you come down to my office and during my working out, during my hours hours, and I went there and and they really helped me out with explaining everything and all all the problems that I had.
It was like literally gone.
And so this is like kind of a support that you get from members of the staff here.
Plus the well -being support is still there.
It's still amazing.
It is outstanding.
We have got Students Union here at MDX that really caters for students' needs here as well.
If you can have the next slide.
Yeah, so as I was saying that my course and the academic curriculum is my academic curriculum was drafted in a way that I have to travel different parts of the European Union countries where I was participating in conferences.
So, as you can see, the picture on the right -hand side of this screen is of Greece, where i was part participating, in there in a conference where all different students from different part of the concert that used to come.
And on the left-hand side the screen.
This is me working at one of the open days on campus this year.
As you can see, this is a red, old red shirt wearing student ambassadors and I'm in the middle.
So time has gone past now and we literally have our open day last couple of weeks ago, I think.
It was really nice after the pandemic.
So yeah, this is something you, I mean, I've made connections, personal, professional connections all over the world.
I have met people which I probably wouldn't be able to have such long lasting and professional connections if I had been to any other country or if have been staying at my country.
So this the part that I really love about London and standing in London that you make connections from all over the world.
People from Far East, with them is our friends from Thailand, from Malaysia and then European.
So if you come and the culture there, it's such a vibrant culture here at campus that, you made lots of friends and it it such lovely atmosphere at the campus.
So, if we have the next slide.
Oh yes, it's a once -in -a -lifetime student experience, that's for sure.
When you're studying in London, you have the world of opportunities at your doorstep, it is just a matter of opening up that door.
We have got a huge application market, internships market.
Now with the life is becoming normal slowly and gradually, hopefully we don't have another spike in the cases, fingers crossed.
But the job market here in London is booming.
And even the government is giving more and more incentives to international students.
So I think it's a brilliant time to come here.
The nightlife is amazing here in a London and literally the campus, as my colleague mentioned, the campuses is located in neighborhood Hendon, which is literally 25 minutes by public transport to central London.
So we are not that far and we're not right in the heart of central London, so it's about at a fair distance of 25 minutes from campus to Marble Arch Circus.
You are banging there 25 minutes and then you are there.
And here I would like to touch upon my colleague we mentioned about the student orchestra.
It's fairly simple application process.
All you have to do is Google TFL Transport for London, create an account over there.
And then your, your oyster card will be delivered on campus to the Students' Union.
You come to campus, go to Students Union, show them the email and they'll send, they will give you the student oysters card.
It gives you 30% off on your travel throughout your student journey, which is, which trust me, makes a lot of difference.
Transport is expensive in London but if you do get that student oyster card, that gives you 30% off.
That's a blessing for me.
I mean, I literally pay like 50, 60 pounds a month and that gets unlimited travel for a week if I make the best travel pass.
So that's one thing.
Also, i would like to touch upon the bank account thing, it's really important, you know, these two things are really important especially, actually three.
The first one is bank accounts, the second one student always to guard on the third one is registering with the doctor registering with a GP.
The same way you go and Google NHS or the National Health Service, you put in your postcard, and then it will tell you how which is the closest surgery or which is a closest closest GP in your area, click on there, and then register yourself gone with your passport and that's it's important with the pandemic, it is important that you register with GP.
And with regards to the bank account, I mean I am personally using Barclays.
It's one of the high street banks here in London.
All you need is a student status letter, which you can easily get from the uni help in the library.
You need a passport with at least three months visa on there and a biometric residence permit that you will also receive here at the campus.
So that's three most important things that I would say when you do arrive here, that's the three most important thing that in my opinion, it's good.
So if you can have the next slide, please.
That's it.
All right.
And that pretty much it, so any questions, feel free to talk in the chat box and thank you very much for being here.
Yeah, we can wait for you to become part of Team Thank you.
Especially for reassuring the importance of getting your bank accounts registering with the GP picking up your BRP.
I keep telling students this all the time we can't even.
I can even explain how many times I say this and then after their students they email me back or call me because they're like, How do I do this, how do i do that and I'm like I told you a million times.
Because you know it's important.
I also understand that there's a lot of students playing, traveling, doing all these.
But this is why we do webinars like these, and this why each region has a regional office because we speak your language, we understand your situations, we want to give you the best support that we can, even before you become a student at Middlesex University during your time as a students and even after.
Because after you graduate, You still have access to the Employability Center, which helps students find jobs, stay connected with the industry.
You can check your CV, update it to mock interviews, and all of that.
So with all that, we just want to encourage you to become part of Team MDX.
And if you have any questions, this would be a great time to write them on the chat.
I have a question that came directly to me.
I don't know if you guys have any question, beer, or tea, that you can read out loud.
One of the questions that I have is, can we quarantine at our college accommodation, or should we quarantined in a hotel?
This will depend from which country you are coming from.
So once again, I would say, after this webinar, go on www .gov .uk and see what travel restrictions are in place for people coming in from your country.
This is especially if you've spent 10 days in the country prior to where you from traveling in UK.
For example, you can be a U .S.
citizen, but if are in Pakistan, the rules may vary.
So it's not so much about what passport you have, where are you coming from 10 -days prior, where you've spent 10 days prior to your arrival in London.
So to give you an example, if you're coming from the United States and you are completely vaccinated, then you do not need to, you just need basically quarantine until you take the day two test.
And if it's negative, you can leave quarantine and live happily ever after.
But if your coming from another country, for example Zimbabwe, then that is considered a redless country.
you will need to book a quarantine hotel before your arrival and stay at the hotel during your time of quarantine.
So it really varies, it depends.
If you have any doubts, please contact your regional office and they will be able to send you the right links and give you the most relevant and most updated information.
Any other questions?
I don't know if you If you have any questions on your end that have been sent directly to you, no?
Well, if we don't have anymore questions, I just want to say thank you to everyone for spending this half hour with us.
I hope it has been useful.
Again, If You Have Any Questions, please contact us, it's our job and it is our pleasure.
I have another question saying, is GRP only for students with a visa?
Yeah, no worries.
I just wanted to make sure if it was GP that you were mentioning or BRP.
So BRP is only for students with a visa.
It's basically your ID or your national identity card in the UK during your time as a student or during the period of your student visa, because it may be your identity.
The student visa may run for a little bit longer than your studies, so I just wanted to clarify that for the purpose of the accuracy.
So if your visa is four years long, then your BRP should be four year long.
And yes, it is only for students with a visa.
Oh, I'm going to add something on this.
So BRB literally stands for biometric residence permit.
So what what that means is that when you do apply for a student visa in your home country, you give your biometrics to give your fingerprint and thumb impressions.
And then when you come and you land at Heathrow at the end, when you are giving your passport to the border officer, and he stamps at you, he again asks you to do your biometrics, your thumb impression and your finger impression.
So that literally goes onto your BRP.
So I mean, that's the most important document.
I would highly recommend you to keep that safe, because if that gets lost, I don't know, it has to be reported to the police and a lot of other places.
You won't be able to open an account, you won t be ready to say with the GP, you don t want to do anything if you lose that piece of document, so it's really important and that you keep hold of that biometric residence permit.
Yes, I agree with their teaser.
So you say, I only stay five months so I won't have a visa is that a problem?
If I don't a BRP, that's a complicated query.
I would say as long as- I have the answer for it.
Oh, you have that answer.
Go ahead.
So if assuming, if you see that your only staying for five month, I'm assuming that, you're a short term student in which case you don't need a student visa because you will have, I'm assuming that you're from the U .S., for example, and you have the ability to stay in the UK for a short term.
If that is the case, then you won't have given your biometrics and won t have a BRP.
Will it be a problem?
It won t be problem.
You just need to travel with your UFID or wherever you re coming from, and maybe a photo of your passport or any documents that show your identity.
But it's not a problem if you don't have your BRP because you never got one.
I have another question and this is a good one, I think it is common doubt.
If you travel, since the Oyster Card is for traveling with public transportation, how do we travel before we get the oyster card with the student discounts and two responses number one you can purchase an oyster card without a student discount and number two if you have a contactless method of payment such as a creditor debit card with a contractless sign or your phone you can use those methods of payments for swiping or for capping in and out of the tube or in with a friend, they don't need to purchase an Oyster card specifically.
If they don t want to, they can just tap in and out with their alternate methods of payment, such as a creditor debit card.
And it's a good question, actually, because sometimes we emphasize so much about the importance of having student Oysters cards that we forget some of the basics that sometimes students, you know, and in some cases, they won't get one immediately before.
And thank you V4 for the link on the student oyster photo card.
It's also I think a nice souvenir after you leave the UK as a student to get that oysters photo card with how you looked like back then when you were a student.
This is my case.
You have three.
We have 3 great souvenirs.
Yeah, I've got two as well.
I just have one.
I have just one, okay.
I feel left out.
Well, thank you everyone.
I know that all of us are busy and at least do, but we're very, very grateful for your time.
Thank you for sharing your experience with us.
Also, if you are not yet participating in this Facebook group, please go ahead.
We've just sent out a link.
A student ambassador will be there to answer your questions.
So please engage on the Facebook group.
Please engage with your regional office.
Let us know when you're coming so we know that you are ready and have everything you need.
And thank you once again for joining us.
Have a great rest of your day.
Okay, I think we're good to go then.
Hi everyone, thank you very much for joining us today for this webinar.
We're going to be talking today about the topic of enrolment, online enrolment for you students, and then just getting you set up and started for the best way possible for your time at Middlesex.
So my name is David Galani, I'm the Head of Student Engagement and Advocacy here at Middlesex University.
And then I'm also joined by two of our brilliant student ambassadors.
So we're joined today by first of all, Masha.
Hi, I'm Masha.
I'm a master's student from Iran.
I'm currently doing my dissertation in biomedical sciences, specialising in medical micro.
Nice to meet you all.
Fantastic.
Thanks, Masha.
And also my name is Nicole.
I'm doing master's in law.
I'm also writing a dissertation on diplomacy.
So I'll later I'll tell you more about myself.
Brilliant.
Thanks very much both.
So the webinar in whole will last for about 60 minutes.
We'll do a quick presentation just to kind of talk through some of the information.
And then we'll have plenty of time after that for a Q &A.
So you can ask any questions that you've got, and we'll do our best to answer them.
If you'd like to ask a question, you can just type them into the chat along the side of the call.
And then we'll come back to those questions at the end of the session.
This webinar is being recorded so that we can share the recording and presentation slides with you in a follow -up email in the next day or two.
So that's everything to get started.
Let's kick off with the presentation.
So first of all, just to give a bit of context.
So as I said, I have the student engagement and advocacy team.
What that means is we have this wonderful team at Middlesex, which is entirely dedicated to helping our students get the right information through our communications channels.
We run lots of wonderful and colourful events and engagement programs.
And ultimately we're here to try to make sure that you can make the most of your experience with us as part of what we call Team MDX.
So helping you to feel part of the community and just get the most out of your time at university.
There are a few things I'm gonna run through today.
So I'm gonna kind of just start going through bits of information.
And as I said, we'll then be able to cover any questions you've got about at the end of the presentation.
So first of all, I wanted to talk through some of the stuff you just need to check off your checklist to get started as a new student at MDX.
So here's some of the key things that we need you to do before you actually arrive at the university.
First of all, there is this thing called enrolment.
Every university does it.
It's essentially an online form where you put in all of your details and just confirmed actually being a student at university.
It's kind of like signing the final contract where you...
by a car or something which kind of just gives you all the details around what's expected of you as a student and what you're committing to.
That opens on Wednesday the 1st of September and you can do it all online.
Before then you will have received login details via email of how you actually log in and complete it.
So you'll be given an IT user ID and also a password which allows you to log into your Middlesex account and I'll show you a bit later in the presentation how exactly you can do that and I think Masha and Nicole are also going to kind of share from their experience like what the process was like for them.
As part of enrolment kind of a thing which goes alongside that is your ID check.
This now can also happen online and it's a form you fill out where you upload your documentation which confirms who you are.
You know obviously need to know that it's you who's confirming themselves as a student at the university.
So you need to do both of those things before you get started.
The third bullet point here is around you setting your password.
So you're going to get an email which gives you your password for your account at Middlesex and it's going to be a very long password with lots of different characters in it.
What we recommend is that you change it to a password that you'll remember yourself and is unique to you.
That's just a way to make sure that your account is more secure because it means that it's a password that only you know because you've chosen it.
In the email that we send you about your password we give you lots of good bits of advice about how to keep your password safe and it's a lot of basic things and they're like you know not sharing it with friends, not writing it down anywhere obvious or kind of writing it in a note stock on your phone that isn't saved or locked or whatever.
So that's an important thing to do.
Also before you actually arrive it's good to plan ahead for when you're going to need to be attending your program induction events.
So I'll go into this in a bit more detail a little bit later but once you've got your login details you can find your full welcome schedule either within what we call my UniHub which is the student portal online for all students to use or within MDX app, which is the mobile app dedicated for current students at the university.
As part of enrolment, you will also kind of have to pay any fees that are due.
So kind of for your course, all that information will be provided for you.
And enrolment is then kind of when you commit to paying the fees relevant for your course.
And finally, I'll talk about this a little bit more later on as well, but once you've done that, you'll then have access to your own university email account.
It's really useful to have that because there are lots of different discount schemes or websites or groups across the whole world that you'll now have access to because you're a member of a university, which is a really good perk, which I think a lot of students don't recognize as much.
So just by having an email address that ends in .ac .uk, which is what all university email addresses end in in the UK, means you'll have access to them.
Your email is also really important to access regularly because it's how your lecturers and other university staff will be communicating with you.
So it's important that you check it regularly, so you don't miss out on anything important.
When it comes to your welcome week and your program induction itself, most of them are gonna take place between the week of Monday the 20th to Friday the 24th of September.
It will be in the week before that, if you're a student who's on a education or a healthcare program, but for most of the subjects, it's within this one main week.
It's really, really important that you go along to the online sessions as part of your program induction, because this is your chance to meet the tutors who are part of your course.
And they'll be telling you basically how all of your program is gonna run.
So they'll give you information about your kind of structure of your different modules.
They'll give you information about the handbook that has all of the assessments and exams and coursework that you'll have to submit as part of the course.
And they'll also give you an opportunity to meet new friends as part of your course.
You'll meet all the other students who are on the same program as you, so you can start to make friends and find people that you can build your network with, go on socials with, kind of join student groups and societies, or just work with when you've got group work, project work, or someone to ask, if you don't understand something in a lecture, is that really helpful to have other students you know in your program that you can just check if they understood what was going on as well.
All of the details for your program induction schedule can be found within either the places I mentioned before.
So either the student portal or my UniHub, which I'll go into more detail around how you access that later, or the MDX app, the student mobile app.
So those are the big key things that we need you to do.
Next, I'm gonna go into a few extra things with more organizing, which we really encourage you to get involved with because they'll help you get more out of your time as a student at Middlesex.
So the first is what we call the Ready for Anything program.
It's this wonderful array of events, both online, and there are some on campus, but obviously you might not be able to attend them if you're still in your home country right now, and we're running them all the way through the summer.
So, we share this presentation with you afterwards, so you can get a link for it, and essentially on the main Uni Hub page, on the main student website page, there's a big right there, kind of access to the Ready for Anything program, and there are activities we're running where you can meet other new students before term starts, information about how we're going to support you and your wellbeing and your mental health, events and activities around learning study skills, so you know getting more confident with things like numeracy or maths or academic writing and you know how to write an essay, all of those things, we're running them now so that when term starts you're already feeling super confident and you've got everything that you need to get started, that's why we call it Ready for Anything, so we really encourage you to get involved in that.
The second thing is a program completely dedicated to all of the international students as part of the university, so that runs from the week of Monday the 13th of September through Friday the 17th.
And in that week, most of the activities are online at that point because we know that not every student is going to be able to go to the UK yet.
So we want to make sure it's accessible to everyone.
But then we're going to specifically run more in -person events, trips and activities and socials throughout the first term.
So looking onto the program now, it's a way to make sure you're told about all that information as it goes on all the way up to the Christmas break.
So it's basically a one -stop shop of a program for everything that we find international students ask us year after year about life in the UK.
You'll have other current students who are international students on that program volunteering and all working as part of the events to help guide you.
You'll have chances to meet other new international students from all over the world.
We run things like the British Tea Party, where you get a chance to kind of experience what a very kind of like upper class tea party looks like.
Everyone wears nice dresses or sandwiches and tea and everything, all fun stuff like that.
We also do some icebreakers so that you can find an easier way to get to know students who might think you have nothing in common with because they're from a whole different part of the world to you.
But actually you realize you've got stuff in common and lots of other stuff all there just to kind of like get you excited and meeting other new students.
So that's the second big thing that we recommend you get involved with.
And as I said, what we'll do is after we've done this presentation, I'll do a quick little almost like a tour of how you use the student website UniHub.
And I'll just show you where you go to find the information about, for example, international orientation.
It's all very easy to find.
And also within this presentation, I've hyperlinked the images.
So when we share this with you afterwards, you can just click on this to go right to the relevant page for you.
So what I'm going to talk about next, well, there's one more kind of advantage that I want to share.
This is something quite new, actually.
So it's the partnership that we've got between an external company called Movido with Middlesex University and then also the Students' Union at the University.
And it's essentially a company who provide what they call a UK starter pack.
And we've got to deal with them so they're giving discounted kind of packs for early Middlesex students.
As you can see from this slide, they offer a wide range of support based on the things that you might need.
So it might be that you're really needing advice on finding a place to live.
It might be that actually transport around London is something you need support with.
It might be your phone or getting to your halls of accommodation from the airport.
Whatever it is, you can just click on the things that you need from the service.
And then they'll be able to kind of show you what a little pack of support they can offer.
Note that there's a little promo code there in the bottom of this tab.
That's the one you use to get the discounts for Middlesex students.
That's something you can use just this minute.
Sorry, if you've just joined, can you pop yourself on mute so that you're not interrupting?
That would be fantastic.
There we go.
I think we've got that one there.
OK, so I'm going to keep running through more things to share with you.
So first of all, kind of there's a few things I wanted to talk about in terms of what it's like to actually be a middle sex student.
So here are some things that we expect from you, which we don't assume you're naturally going to know before you come to the UK or come to university.
Some of these things might be similar to what you had when you were a student in school, but some of them might be differently.
So I won't go through all of these in detail because we will share the presentation with you afterwards.
But I'll just pick out a few key ones.
So first of all, there is a lot more expectation on you at university to be what we call independent.
It's up to you to kind of decide how you're going to use your time and how you're going to study independently.
And that's why it's really important to start developing what we call time management skills so that you can build your schedule, work out when you want to be on campus for attending lectures, et cetera, how you're going to use the library in between those sessions to do your own study work and further reading, reading around the topic.
And overall, it's up to you how much effort you put in and how much you choose to engage.
The university is always going to be here to support you.
We have loads of fantastic ways that we try and help get the most out of you so that you can fulfill your potential.
But I always think that university is quite like a gym membership in that, you know, getting the membership itself does nothing for you.
You're not going to get ripped or get huge muscles if you just have a gym membership.
It's all about how much time you put into that membership, how often you go to the gym, how much you kind of make out of it, how smart you are about your training program.
It's exactly the same with university.
There's loads of resources, support and other opportunities that we've given to you.
But you're only going to get out of it how much you put in.
So that's like one big overall point.
Especially the other ones are just around courtesy, you know, when you're attending lectures, whether they be in person or online.
It's really important that you arrive before the class starts, so that you're not walking in and interrupting everyone else's learning.
It's also really important that when you're in the lecture, you don't talk with other students that are around you, you know, there are some big lecture theatres that we have on our amazing campus where you might have 150, 200 students in a room.
If all of them are having little conversations, no one's going to be doing any learning and that makes the whole thing pointless.
So it's really important that when you're in those learning spaces, you treat others with respect, you listen to the academic in front of the class who's teaching you and don't talk over them.
One of the final things I just took you on this slide here is the importance of understanding plagiarism.
So essentially, that means copying someone else's work and pretending that it's your own.
So that can come in a lot of different forms.
And the university has a great course online, which we have dedicated to academic integrity.
which you can complete in your own time to learn more about what this actually means.
But it is an important thing and it does get checked for when you're doing your assessments.
If you submit something where you've copied and pasted it from someone else or part of another student or a website and we have a system that will pick that up and then actually it means that you could fail that module because you've plagiarized that you've taken it from someone else.
So it's really important you learn about this.
It's a very important thing we have in the UK for universities and not all other countries necessarily approach in the same way.
So that's why it's just important to familiarize itself with it.
The other things in terms of expectations I wanted to share is around because of how we're kind of responding to the COVID -19 pandemic.
There are a lot of things that we're doing as a university to keep campus safe, to make sure that we can teach people in person and to make sure that all of our students, staff and people within the local community that we work with are looked after and can be healthy.
But because of that there are some things we need from you.
Things that we expect from you, things we expect you to do so that you can help keep our wider community safe.
All of those things are listed here and if you ever have any questions about them then please do get in touch because it's really important that you know how to look after yourself and those around you.
In the UK we strongly encourage all of our students and staff to get vaccinated and that is possible for international students to do as well if you haven't already been vaccinated in your home country.
And generally before you come to campus we recommend that you take a home COVID test you can complete really easily wherever you're living in halls in private rented accommodation etc and you can order these to get limited to you straight to your home in little packs of seven of them so you can complete them whenever you need to.
We recommend generally doing that twice a week before you come to campus just to make sure that you've tested negative before you come on to campus.
If you do have a test positive and there's also a team as part of the student website we can contact them and tell us so that we can get support out to you in whatever way that might be needed.
I won't go through everything else here, as again I said like the information is on the UniHub website for more detail, but I thought that was just important to share.
And we want all of you to feel safe to know that there's lots that we're doing at the university, make our campuses be a secure place where all students and staff can work and feel confident in doing so.
Okay, so now I'm going to go on to some of the digital resources that we have and where you go for information as a student.
So I'm going to talk through a couple of our big platforms that we have that I've already referenced earlier in this presentation.
So first of all is UniHub, which is your main student website.
Within that it has basically all the information you'll need as a student.
It lists the events that we're organizing, announcements on news for any updates, pages for new students, pages of our support services.
Everything is on there, everything that I've talked about so far in this presentation is on UniHub.
how I did core after we finished our presentation about the main pages so that you can see how you can find them.
Also within UniHub there is a place where you can log in with your student ID and password that I mentioned at the beginning of the presentation and it accesses what we call my UniHub which is essentially just the back end of UniHub where all of your personalised information is.
So that's where you can find your timetable, your student email, access to all of your learning resources, everything which basically you need to log in so that we can give it just to you as a student.
There's also this brilliant functionality we have on the website where you can on the little right hand side there's a button called chat with us and if you're ever not sure about something you don't know where to go to find information, if you're struggling, if you need some support, if you just like to try and make more of your time at the university you know and just develop yourself more.
You can click on that chat with this button and you come through to our team which we call UniHelp.
It's basically the one -stop shop of places to go if you've ever got questions as a student and then you can just type your questions straight into the live chat functionality and someone will help you with that.
The second of the digital resources that I want to talk about is the MDX app and this is a fantastic kind of everything in one place mobile app that you can download either for Android or iPhone or iOS and in there it's going to have your student email, your timetable, you can check into your classes within the app as well so you can log your attendance, it can all be done within there accessing a library account, basically everything that you need to do as a student you can get within the MDX app.
If you just search for Middlesex University or MDX app within either of the app stores you can find it and download it to your phone.
You'll need to log into the app again with your student's user id and your password which as I mentioned will have been kind of shown to you at the, kind of there will be able to before this point and once you've met all of your offer conditions which I think everyone here has.
I'm not exactly sure of that but yeah basically once you've met your offer conditions that's when you get sent your login details for my UniHub and MDX app.
So I think that's everything I wanted to show from my side.
So what I'm going to do now is pass over first of all to Masha who's going to talk a bit more about her experience as the student ambassador and Masha when you want me to go forward on the PowerPoint presentation just let me know.
Okay thank you.
Hi again everyone as I told you before.
Oh you're a little bit quiet Masha is there any way you can speak a bit louder perhaps.
Is it better now?
Yeah that's a bit better thank you.
Okay perfect.
As I told you before I'm an international master's student from Iran so my enrolment was completely online as yours would be and since I moved here in the middle of the pandemic, every other thing, even though my classes and lab sessions were online as well.
So David, could you please move to my next slide?
So first of all, I'm going to talk a little bit about the enrolment.
As David mentioned, you need your enrolment to access your timetables.
So that's the exact time of your classes and you need that to activate your email so that your program leader and lecturers can be in touch with you.
And you also can access your reading list on your library account.
That is basically your textbooks that your program leader and other lecturers have suggested for you.
So as I mentioned before, you have to do it online on My UniHub.
So this is the first page that you come across when you try to log into My UniHub.
What you do is your IT user ID and your student ID.
You already know your student ID starts with M and a few other numbers.
And your IT user is your initials followed by two or three other numbers.
You will get these through your emails.
But I remember I couldn't find my IT user ID, so I had to contact the admissions office and ask them for help.
But they are always responsive and don't worry about it.
You just get it.
And after that, there's a direct link when you log in.
It's big and clear.
You cannot miss it.
Don't worry.
And every other instruction is followed through that link.
Even the payment is online.
I guess it was through Western Union.
remember clearly.
You can attend your induction sessions without enrolment, but it is advised for you to enrol beforehand because honestly it will just make more sense to you because you will have an idea what your program leader is talking about.
And so yeah this link is a checklist for you that you can follow step by step and it just makes it easier.
One other thing is I remember that I was worried about my visa because my visa process took longer than usual due to COVID and I wasn't sure if I was even going to get a visa and I was a little bit worried to pay the tuition fee and pay fees for accommodations because I'm staying in a student accommodation and then not getting a visa.
But they, the team, the Middlesex team made sure that I'm comfortable and I know that if I don't get my visa, the fees will be either refundable or referable for the next term.
So that's it for my first slide.
Could you please move to the next.
So yeah, other things that you can do after your enrolment.
I mentioned the induction session before.
That's, of course, pretty important, but you have to complete your ID check as well.
That's all you have to upload a certain photo, the instructions are online and your visa after you get it, you have to upload that as well.
And your email will be activated after twenty four hours, I guess.
And the other thing is you can access my learning.
So my learning is the place that you have all the details about your modules and your assignment links Dropbox for your assignments will be there and you can explore around them before your term starts.
Another thing is that if you want to open in a student account in the UK, you can request the required letter from Middlesex through your UniHaul portal.
And yeah, I already mentioned the textbooks and you can see your financial status.
That is every payment that you have made for your accommodation and tuition.
And yeah, that's pretty much it.
I hope you have a great experience as I did.
That's bro.
Thanks very much, Masha.
And then up next, I think a few slides from Nicole, so I'll hand over to you to talk through your bit.
Hi everyone, thank you Maxia and David for the information.
I think I'll be repeating a few points but then I'll try to say it in a very easy way so that everyone understands the process of enroling.
So I'm actually from Russia and currently I'm getting my master's in law but previously I've been studying at Middlesex University for like five years now because I started with foundation program in the bar branch, then I did my bachelor's degree in law also in the bar branch and last year I moved to London and now I started my master's degree and unfortunately last year everything was online but hopefully this year for you guys they said it's going to be more mixed schedule so you get so hopefully your sessions the lectures will probably you'll still be online but Seminars, they might be on campus so you get to actually interact with each other.
So I made a small short checklist, a few points have been mentioned by Marcia and David, and also wanted to thank David for saying about the Movido starter pack, it seems very useful because when I arrived to the United Kingdom.
I didn't have much support regarding the airport pickup about SIM cards, I had no idea where to get my SIM card from.
So even house in searching support this is very great because I also struggled a bit with finding a suitable apartment, because I arrived to the United Kingdom with my mother, so we were not able to stay in the middle of sex accommodation we had to search for a house which would be suitable for two of us.
So I guess middle sex handles this as well now.
So my small checklist is always check your emails.
This is just my tip for throughout the year, because before the university starts during the university year, all the time you get important emails about everything so you shouldn't miss anything so just check it all the time.
That's just a very important tip from me.
Second, as it has already been mentioned, get enroled.
This is a very simple process, it actually takes about five minutes, all you have to do is just log in, check your details which states your name, your current address, your address in your home country, maybe a few other questions about yourself so basically takes five minutes just to get enroled, so nothing to worry about, it's a very, very simple process.
So once you get enroled, you get to explore the UniHAB page.
It's very interesting because you actually get to see your schedule for the first time, you get to see your modules, the ones you enroled for, you get to see some of the books, you can you can scroll through your books because they might be already online you can see the program you'll be studying throughout the year.
You get to explore the library online so it's very fun process especially if you're new to Middlesex University and you're excited about everything so this is a fun time to explore Middlesex page.
Then you get to switch from your personal from your personal email account to Middlesex account so all your future emails regarding university will always be sent to the Middlesex University email so whenever you are participating in any Middlesex events or if you are emailing your professors always use your Middlesex email account.
You can forget about your previous one the previous your old one your personal one stays for your personal for your personal stuff.
Then my fifth point is ID.
check.
It's also a very simple process.
Once you get your visa or once you get your British cards, the residence permission, you can just upload it to Middlesex and your photos.
So it takes a few minutes as well.
Paying your fees.
So usually always I used to pay with my credit card or I used to pay with my debit card.
This was always the simplest process for me because I'm used to paying with my credit card.
So you enter the details.
It's very simple.
And we all know how to pay with your credit cards online.
This is a simple process.
But a few months ago I had some issues with paying with my debit card.
I don't know why.
It wasn't displaying properly.
And I tried the second option, which Middlesex offers.
You can pay by phone.
So you have to dial the phone number, which is given on Middlesex page.
And then on the phone call, you answer a few questions about your debit card.
You tell your name.
You tell the sum that you're supposed to, the sum that you want to pay.
And it worked for me much better and even faster than entering everything online.
So just export the page.
So if you have some issues, maybe paying online, try paying by phone.
It works as well.
Attend the induction day.
Well, some of you have been asking whether it is actually necessary to attend the induction day.
But yes, I recommend doing it because it's actually fun.
That's the day when you get to meet everyone.
That's the day when you get to see the university, I believe.
Or that's the day when you get to get to know more about the university.
It's just a very fun day.
It's very interesting day because we're all excited about our new step in life.
So why not just do it?
It's very fun.
Eight is registering for your optional modules.
Not all of you have it, but or maybe Maybe you get it in the second term, but maybe you get it in the first term, sometimes you get a choice between a few modules and you have to register the one you prefer more.
But actually, I guess this usually comes in the second term of the year.
Yeah, creating a subgroup with your program mates, with your classmates.
This comes after you have met them, of course, after you have met your mentor, and you start interacting with each other.
And through WhatsApp, we actually get the most updated news about your classmates, about your program, about everything.
So do make sure that your program, your class starts.
Can you guys hear me because it's written that my connection is unstable?
We can.
So good, Nicole.
Yeah, my 10th point is to become a student voice leader.
I was a student voice leader of my class.
I still am the voice leader of my class.
It's actually fun and you get to collect your classmates' opinions about university, about what they expect from their studies, what they actually want to change, what they want to achieve.
And you get to tell and you get to take this information and send it to university leaders so that they can make the university better, so that they can also improve your studies or they can improve or they would listen to your opinions and they would make a change to something that you don't like and they will make it better.
So you become a student voice leader in a few first weeks.
Your class manager is going to ask whether you want to be a student voice leader.
There's nothing to worry about.
It's very easy.
You actually get to interact with people.
And if you want to become more confident, if you want to become more extroverted, you can just try doing it because you get to interact with more people.
And then apply for an Oyster card and other discounts.
So as David said, there's a mobile that I guess helps you applying for Oyster card or something like that.
But so Oyster card is a card which you use in London or in the United Kingdom to on bus or on the tube.
Well, to be honest, student Oyster card didn't help me much because actually it's it takes the same amount as a normal Oyster card.
So I didn't see the difference much between the student Oyster card and the normal Oyster card.
So basically all you have to do is either apply for the student cards online or you can just buy a normal Oyster card, I believe, in the tube.
So there's not much, no big difference.
But I guess it helps with you with those basic things, you don't have to worry about those things anymore.
And next slide please.
Just a few things to explore at MDX.
So once you get started once you enroled once university starts, please join me the middle sex sports teams because they're very fun and there's so many of them so there's a cricket team football team there's tennis team there's so much Chats.
If you're not that sporty there's everything, everything you can think of middle sex actually has it.
To be honest, I'm not sure about this year, but is there.
But I guess there will be sports this year because for me, I was a bit unlucky there wasn't sports teams that much last year.
But let's see how it goes.
Secondly, you can volunteer and work for a middle sex university, for example, like we are doing now because we are students as well.
And we are just helping out here.
We are giving tips to future students.
We are participating in different events and this is also a fun thing to do and also a thing to develop your inner confidence.
And there was other curricular courses like maybe you could join languages courses because this year we had Spanish.
We had Italian classes, so it's not only sports, it's lots of other varieties, things you could do with Middlesex, their dance team or for example, public speaking team.
So it's not only about sports, it's about any interest that you have.
Middlesex just supports everything you can do and so you get to explore lots of things.
Especially in the first days when I joined Middlesex, I saw the list of things you could do.
I wanted to join everything I can.
I didn't know, I just signed up for everything I could.
And try to attend networking events, for example, like this one.
Well, there's lots of other events, for example, there's icebreaking activities that David mentioned, where if you get actually to meet each other, you get to meet other students, you get to meet everything.
You can because you have a small speed meeting sessions, where we meet in small groups, even online, and we meet each other and we talk to each other.
So try to participate in everything you can because making friends, making connections is especially important while you can.
Okay, thank you guys.
This was one of my small tips for today.
And your questions, we'll be answering them now.
Let's use the chat box and we will try to reply to everything we can.
Thanks so much for all of those, Nicole.
I'm going to stop sharing my screen from the PowerPoint presentation.
I've seen lots more questions coming in the chat, which is fantastic.
What I'm going to do just to give kind of Masha and Nicole some time to answer some of those questions in the chat.
I'm going to share my screen again and I'm going to show you what the student website UniHub looks like and just navigate around to a few of the pages that we referenced.
So if you just bear with me for one second whilst I share my screen again and this time I'll be able to show you the UniHub website so that you can kind of see how it all looks.
So I think that can be seen by people again now I've shared this you can see kind of the student website and so this is what UniHub looks like.
It's very easy to remember URL it's just unihub .mdx .ac .uk and as I said this works like that all the core information that you'll need as part of your studies at the university.
So right here at the top here you can search for anything you want to look for and there's also a button right here which can take you to the welcome checklist that we talked about.
So this is the page that has all the information that can help new students.
about kind of where to go to enrol, all of those details, etc.
If I just go back, apologies, I just need to move from the screen a little bit so I can see the back tab thing.
And actually if I go to the next tab, I can go through just the main pages that you can access.
So also within the welcome section, here's the international orientation page that I mentioned.
So this has details about events and activities that are running for international students, details about kind of the user and stuff before you come to the UK.
And then down here at the bottom is the booking form so that you can book on for all of the different events that you want to attend.
As I said, there's lots of different online ones mainly happening in that week of the 13th of September, and then events which are happening throughout the rest of the term, and kind of around the UK.
Some of these we might move around a little bit in terms of dates, just because we want to make sure that as many students as possible can come to them, etc.
So that's the international orientation page, and that's just within the student life section.
And then if I go to the next tab, I've already got the welcome checklist.
Here's the ready for anything page.
Again, you can get to it from the main homepage of the website, and this is where you can book on for the activities that are taking place between now and the start of the term.
Really recommend you book onto those.
It might be that if you're still in your home country, then you can't come to the on -campus events.
That's fine.
There's still lots more of those that will happen when the term starts, but there are lots of great online events that you can already start booking onto to meet other new students.
And again, you can just book onto them right from the start here using this form.
Book on for as many as you want.
And then the other thing I just want to show you is this is the Movido website we referenced.
So if you just go to the URL that we had in the presentation, it's go -movido, and then add in the MDX promo code, and that's how you can access that.
So the other thing, apologies, I just need to go back to the UniHub page, and then if I go back to the home page, let's go to show you at the top here, this is the button for my UniHub.
If you click on that, that's how you get onto my UniHub to log in for anything that you might need.
And then if I go back again, on the right -hand side of any page on the UniHub website, and actually if you go to support, here's how you can find UniHub.
So just under support and well -being and UniHub, that's where you can go to find and get in contact.
You can do live chats, or submit a query, or you can phone them.
Lots of different ways to get in touch that you can get support from the university.
So yeah, it's all here on the student website.
As I said, it's a really easy place to find everything.
And one, here's the button right on the home page about how to access the Ready for Anything program as well.
So yeah, hopefully you can all find it all there really easily.
and yeah here's the little green chat with this button that I referenced just this one here it brings up chat so you can type in your question and that'll go to one of our advisors.
So just thought I'd spend a minute showing you what that looks like.
I'll stop sharing my screen again and we'll start going to any questions which will come through on the chat that we haven't already covered.
So Masha or Nicole are there any that you've seen come through that we haven't responded to yet it would be good to answer.
I sent some to you directly.
Oh fantastic okay yeah so let me just go through the ones that you sent through to me and I'll answer them.
So let's see you sent through a question what time does enrolment open and so that opens on Wednesday the 1st of September so it's next Wednesday it'll open from any time in that day so if by that point you've been sent your login details you can go to the UniHub website and roll as we talked about there.
What day is the induction day so that will depend on your program of study so what you need to do is it'll usually be sometime in the week of the 20th of September for most programs that's the week it'll be in but what you need to do is need to log in to either my UniHub or MDX app with the login details that we've referenced already.
If you're having any issues logging in the fastest way to resolve it is just to message UniHub using the live chat function on the UniHub website and just say I can't log in I don't know my details and they'll be able to get them for you and kind of send them to you really quickly.
So once you've logged into my UniHub or MDX app in there you can see your full welcome schedule which tells you when your induction day or days because sometimes programs have the induction across multiple days so you can see the next year will be in the 20th of September a deadline or will we have extra days so most program inductions this year are going to take place online so even if you're not the UK yet by the 20th when your induction takes place, it's still really important that you attend wherever you are.
You will be able to get information from your program team if you miss your induction, but you'll miss out on the opportunity to kind of meet them properly face to face to be in the Zoom chat or whatever you kind of group online with other new students as well.
So we really recommend you attending your program induction.
Let's see, just looking through for any other further questions that you tagged me in Mascha.
Here we go.
Regarding UniHub, there were recurring issues related to changing the password.
It kept showing an error or something.
Could you elaborate on what we could do?
And so if you're having any issues with regards to changing your password or logging in, it's a technical system.
You know, unfortunately, sometimes there are IT issues, but luckily there is a whole team dedicated to solving any IT issues at the university.
So if you are having an issue changing your password or logging in, as I said, just get in contact with uni help.
The fastest way to do that is through the live chat functionality on the website.
Just tell them what you're struggling with and they'll either be able to sort it for you or reset the password.
And it will just happen much quicker than like submitting a ticket, which then goes away to them and they'll email you back.
You can do that if you want, but we recommend live chat to get the fastest result.
The next one I've been tagged in, Italy doesn't allow major online payments.
So is there a way to back bank transfer?
I'm not sure about that one myself actually.
So I'm not based on the finance side of things.
So maybe we can just take that question and we'll try and get another team member to provide an answer.
And then we can include that when we send over the PowerPoint.
So that's the question about how to do bank transfers if online payments are difficulty.
And I think that's all of the questions that I've been tagged in.
We've got all the same just, oh, sorry.
Do we have any more coming through, Mashira or Nicole?
I guess there are two new questions at the end of the chat from Sunny and Ali.
Oh, yes.
So Sunny asks, what about quarantine facilities?
So for most situations now in the UK, if you do unfortunately test positive for coronavirus for COVID -19, we recommend that you just stay at home and you quarantine there.
And then if you're feeling really unwell, that's when you then contact the NHS, you can then advise you on emergency or A &E support for health.
What the university does, it's really important if you do test positive to get in touch with the university and kind of let us know as soon as possible.
What I'm gonna just really quickly do is get from, at the top of every UniHub page, there is a little bar that says COVID -19 latest, frequently asked questions and information.
So you can find that from any page on the website.
website.
It's really important that you check that every now and again, just to see if there's been any updates or anything.
And what I'm going to do is I'm going to just grab from that page, the email address that you should use, actually it's a form that you should complete if you do contract coronavirus.
So I'll just share a link to that overall page into the chat so that you can see it.
And then within that page, there's a section of frequently asked questions, and there's one about what should I do if I develop COVID-19 symptoms, and there's one that gives you a link to a form you can for them to tell the university.
We'll then get in touch with support, etc, to help you in that circumstance.
Ali's question, can you show how to access your email?
We have access to it now.
So you need to enrol before you get access to your student email.
So you can log in to my UniHub and MDX app now, which is fantastic.
but you'll only actually get your university email itself once you've enrolled which as we said you can do from Wednesday the 1st of September that's next week.
So basically just try and enrol as quickly as you can as Masha and Nicole both wonderfully showed there are lots of benefits and advantages which you only get access to once you enrol so we just recommend that you do that as quickly as you can once it opens next Wednesday.
And then one last question which has come through from Rakesh.
Are there any routes through the university to book the mandatory COVID tests during the self -isolation period for students coming from ambulance countries and isolating in halls of residence?
So what I'll do is I'll just find a link that we do have on the university website that has details about that.
In fact you can see on that same link that I posted through just a second ago so on that link I said which is the UniHub link COVID -19 updates FAQ.
Near the very top of that page on the right hand side there's a whole section about PCR or hotel quarantine that you might need to do from some countries and how you can apply to get reimbursement for those.
So all the details are on that page and they'll be able to articulate it in more detail than I can right here so just click on that link and then check the details within that section on the right about PCR and hotel quarantine.
I did see one question earlier on about the university and whether we provide tests to you or whether you're expected to get them yourselves.
So obviously there's the tests which you're expected to do based on which country you're coming to the UK from and before and after you travel but then as I was saying earlier in the presentation we generally ask students to complete a home test which is called a rapid lateral flow test which is really well you know it's one you can do at home you know kind of just yourselves and you can order packs of those from the NHS website basically as soon as you've arrived in the UK or when you've got your new address that you're going to be moving to.
once you arrive in the UK.
If you just search on Google for NHS home test kit or rapid lateral flow test, it will pull up a link for how you can order them for yourself completely free.
You can get a pack of seven of those and then you can just use them every few days or so before you come to campus to check yourself and know that you're kind of okay.
Just seeing the last question in there from Muzamil about CAS letter, that very much depends on the admissions team.
So I can't answer that one just because I'm not an expert in that area.
But if you do get in touch with admissions about your own situation, that's probably the best way to work out how long kind of the CAS letter will take for you.
I think we've answered all the questions that have come through.
So I'll say a big, big thank you.
Yeah, sorry Victoria, I'm just going to go on there.
So, for any questions about CAS or VISA etc, it's best you get in touch with the admissions team that kind of already handling your own personal situation with regards to the application.
I'm afraid I can't answer anything because I'm not sure from from my team's perspective.
We only look after supporting students kind of from the enrolment process onwards.
Yeah, I've been in contact with them but I've been struggling a little bit.
But yeah, yeah, may I, may I say something.
So, when I was applying for middle sex last year, I was struggling with my cash letter as well.
And because it was the very, it was the time when the COVID was the most spreading.
It took me, I don't know why but it actually took me two months to get my cash letter.
But I guess this year it's a bit more calm and I guess they will issue them much faster.
But what I did and what I would recommend is just keep emailing them every 10 days reminding of yourself that you're waiting for this cash letter.
So, so maybe you feel calmer when they say yes.
So when they apply you saying yes, we will issue it in, in a week or in 10 days you at least you will know that they don't forget about you and that you're getting your cash letter soon.
Okay, personally I have my cash letter today I was working on my online application but I've encountered a few problems I mean, on the website is described in a certain way and then when I went on the UK government.
It's not called tier four anymore it's just student visa they asked me different questions, and I'm not getting a clear reply so like I was looking for someone with a bit of experience to talk to, you know, also because I'm Italian is for me is just weird now to apply for a visa to the UK because I never needed one.
So, yeah, that makes sense Victoria, maybe if you.
If you privately share just if I'm not sure if we're able to if you're probably able to message us to email.
address then we can kind of like check with the team to get kind of back to you who can support you on it.
Yeah I've emailed every team possible and accessed the chat and the what's up number like everything.
I'm just waiting for a clear reply from somebody that knows something.
I'm not sure if you have the functionality to privately message us your email address but then we can kind of just.
Oh yeah I can absolutely.
Brilliant yeah if you do that then that means there we go yeah I finally just said if you can message your email then we can put you straight in touch with a relevant team member who can hopefully get back to you faster than the kind of way you've been contacted so far.
Thank you for asking that and hopefully we can get that sorted.
No worries at all.
Thank you very much everyone else for all of your wonderful questions and joining us today.
We're going to pop a quick poll in a minute, which would be really great if you could take a minute to answer that.
And if we missed anything, then please do get in touch with us.
Pretty much everything you need will be available for you to buy in the UK.
But watch our video to hear Ashna from Nepal talk you through some important items to pack in your hand luggage and carry on.
Pre-order bedding and kitchen equipment with UniKitOut and have it delivered to your new accommodation.
Use code MDX10 to get 10% off your order.
Read our suggested packing list
Hi everyone, my name is Ashna.
I am a first-year student doing my undergraduate degree in international business.
I come from Nepal and I am also an international student ambassador for Middlesex.
So today I'm going to be showing you what you need to be packing if you're coming to the UK for your further studies.
So without any further delay, let's get started with the video.
So firstly, I'm going to be showing you what you need to pack in your carry -on.
So it contains all of your essential items like your electronics, your charger, and also the most important thing you'll have here are your documents.
So make sure you keep them safe in a file.
Make sure you keep your university offer letter, gas letter, your passport tickets, and all other financial and health reports that are required from your country while you enter the UK.
Also packing my educational transcripts.
Don't forget to carry some cash and coin because it always comes in handy and make sure it's according to the limit of the airport.
Then you can pack your travel size essential items which is usually under 100ml for most flights.
And your carry-on is all set to go.
Now it's time for the check -in luggage.
So make sure you pack a lot of cardigans, sweaters, and warm clothes because UK can get pretty chilly.
So I'm packing some of my sweaters, cardigans, and also a good quality windproof jacket.
I am also packing some formals and then a scarf, a cap, and some earmuffs to keep myself warm.
Also pack good quality trousers and jeans.
And then you also need some loungewear.
Also pack some small handbags and tote bags.
Here's my makeup and all other essential toiletries.
It is essential that you don't overpack because most of the items you can buy when you get here.
Also pack a good quality umbrella and some travel at home.
A nd extra cables if you need them.
You will also be needing good quality shoes if you're coming to the UK because you will be walking around quite a bit so make sure you pack some comfortable trainers, rain boots and all other shoes which are of good quality.
Packing warm buffer jackets is always a good idea and make sure you don't bring a lot of utensils with you because you can get them here for very cheap.
We hope the video was informative and if you'd like to see more helpful videos from us make sure you leave the ideas in the comment box below and we are looking forward to welcoming all of you here at Middlesex University.
There are many different ways you can travel from major airports to the campus, including by bus, train, tube, and taxi.
Find out how to get to campus
You can use the TFL or Citymapper app to help you plan your journey before and during your travel.
We have a Meet and Greet service available at Heathrow Airport only, from 15 - 19 September, between 8am and 8pm.
Our team and student ambassadors will be there to welcome you, answer any questions, and help direct you to public transport so you can get to campus easily.
Book your spot
More on

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/interviews-portfolios-and-auditions/creative-portfolios-interviews-and-auditions:
Explore tips from our creative students to help you best showcase your abilities and potential when you apply for a creative degree at Middlesex
Make sure your students' portfolios are in the best shape possible by joining us for this session on Wednesday 5 November.
We'll explore what makes an effective portfolio, including advice on selecting and presenting work, demonstrating creative thinking, and tailoring content to specific contexts.
This event is for tutors to book on - please speak to your tutor if you'd like to attend.
A portfolio is an important part of your application for an art and design course.
It is a collection of your work to give the tutors an idea of what you can do and assess if you are suitable for the course.
We've put together some helpful tips to make the most of your portfolio.
Afterwards, MDX students Jad and Sahar tell you about preparing your portfolio and how to do your best at your visual arts interview.
Find out what they enjoyed about their experience and why you will too.
You can also watch a recording of our Facebook Live webinar on creating your portfolio .
Students Aaliyah and Corey share their experiences of doing an audition and interview for their course and what they enjoyed about it.
Get their advice on how to prepare before you come and how to do your best on the day.
Euan explains what happens at your interview and audition for a music course and why you don't need to worry.
Hear his advice on how to make the most of this opportunity to meet your tutors and come to campus.
Ask our friendly student ambassadors for their advice

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/short-courses-and-cpd/in-house-english-test:
Take the free Middlesex online English test as an alternative to the IELTS or other approved tests.
You can apply through one of our regional offices depending on your location.
The exam is entirely free of charge for students.
No, but you do need a conditional offer to take the exam.
Yes, you can sit the exam from anywhere provided you have a stable internet connection and there are no restrictions that prevent you from accessing the test from within the country where you wish to take it.
You will need:
You cannot re-sit the exam immediately.
The time recommended before resitting will depend on the score you receive and we can advise about that.
The minimum time before resitting is 3 months.
We can also advise regarding pre-sessional courses if you do not receive the result you need.
The exam tests all four skills (listening, speaking, writing and reading) but there are differences in the format of the exam, and it is taken wholly online.
We offer testing dates throughout the year.
Please contact your regional office for further information.
You will receive a practice reading/ writing exam before the test.
There is no special preparation required for the listening/ speaking test.
The exam is taken on two separate days.
The Reading & Writing test is taken in one session on an online proctored platform.
This part of the test takes about two hours plus time to set up.
You will need to download an app and set up webcam, mobile camera and screen share.
If you pass the Reading & Writing test, then you will proceed to the Listening & Speaking test.
This is taken on zoom, one-to-one with an examiner and takes about 20 minutes.
Results are usually issued no later than two weeks after the test date.
Please consult your regional office for further information.
'The test has a numerical grading system from 1-6.
Undergraduates normally need to achieve an overall score of at least 3.
Postgraduates normally need to achieve an overall score of at least 3.5.
You also need to achieve minimum scores in each component.
Some courses have different requirements, and we can advise as necessary.
As well as academic qualifications, you also need to make sure that you meet our English language requirements.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/student-visas/your-application:
You must apply using an online application form (unless you are applying from North Korea).
You must choose between the application form for applicants outside the UK and the application form for applicants already within the UK.
Both application forms can be found on the UK Visas and Immigration website.
You can apply for your visa up to six months before your course starts.
Do not apply before this date, as your application will be refused.
You must apply for your visa at least two weeks before your course starts (or if you have the option of starting your studies online, at least two weeks before you plan to travel to the UK).
If you cannot apply for your visa by this deadline, you may have to defer your studies and start your course at a later date.
Make sure you allow enough time for the visa to be processed before your course starts or you plan to travel.
It can take several weeks for your visa application to be processed and average processing times vary in each country.
Lots of visa applications are made in June, July, and August so it can take longer to get your visa at these times because of the high demand.
If you think you will miss the start of your course because your visa has not been issued, you should let us know immediately.
You may need to start your studies online or defer your studies to the next intake.
Any problems with your visa?
Contact your local International offices or email our International Advice team to let us know.
Click here to watch our video to find out more.
It will give you a step-by-step guide to applying for an overseas Student route visa.
You need to pay a fee to make a Student route visa application.
These costs are paid directly to your local Visa Application Centre or online.
You will be advised on how to pay when you apply.
From April 2025*, the cost of a Student route visa is:
£524 if you are applying from outside the UK
£524 if you are applying from within the UK
In addition to the cost of your application, you will also need to demonstrate that you can cover living costs while your in the UK.
This means you will need to show  that you have £1,483 per month for 9 months (£13,347) in your bank account, unless your course is shorter than 9 months*.
More information can be found Your Documents .
There are additional fees if you are applying for dependant visas or if you chose a priority service.
*These charges are accurate as of April 2025.
They are subject to change and you should check the visa application fees before you apply.
This video will help you prepare for your visa credibility interview by reviewing some of the most common questions.
If your postgraduate course starts on or after 1 January 2024 you can only bring dependents to the UK if you are studying either:
If you have or are applying for, leave under the Graduate route, please see the Graduate route information.
For more information on regulations and definitions, please visit the Dependents page on the UKCISA website.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/student-visas/your-interview:
You may be interviewed as part of the visa application process.
An interview can take place at the visa application centre when you submit your application or any time between then and you receiving your visa (by phone or face-to-face).
There is no way of knowing whether you will be selected for an interview.
There is no need to be worried about the interview.
Use our guidance to prepare and make sure you think about what you want to say in advance.
The questions in your interview will help your caseworker decide if you are a 'genuine' student and if you are planning to come to the UK in order to study the course you have been offered.
The interviewer will ask you questions to check that:
Always tell the truth.
You should never lie at any point during your visa application.
If you don't understand a question, you can ask the interviewer to repeat it.
They understand that English might not be your first language and won't mind repeating the question.
Most importantly, try to remain calm and answer the questions clearly and slowly.
Don't panic, as this makes it harder for you to speak clearly.
The interview will probably last 10 to 20 minutes and can be done by video conference with an interviewer in the UK, by telephone or face-to-face at a visa application centre, a High Commission, or an Embassy
The interview is not recorded, but your answers are written down.
The transcript is attached to your file and sent to the caseworker with the rest of your documents
No decision is made at the time of the interview.
The transcripts are assessed at a later stage by the caseworker.
We strongly recommend that, when the interview is over, you ask for a copy of this transcript and check that it is an accurate record of the interview.
If you feel the transcript is inaccurate or leaves out something important, please contact our international student advice team for more information.
It is unlikely you will be asked back for a second interview.
If you are, this is probably because the interviewer is concerned about something you said during your first interview.
You must contact us immediately to let us know.
We can supply additional support and guidance.
A second interview is your last chance to convince the interviewer that you are a genuine student.
Make sure you prepare well and can answer the questions fully.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/student-visas/after-your-application:
Now that you’re an offer holder there are lots of things to look forward to.
Find out more about paying your tuition fees, applying for a student visa, booking your accommodation and more.
If your visa application is unsuccessful then email our team immediately.
We will advise you of your options and help you decide what to do.
If you have already studied in the UK then you may want to apply to take another course at the same level.
However, you must show that there is a good reason for this.
This is called 'academic progress' and there are the following requirements:
Academic progress only applies to courses that have been taken in the UK.
If your previous study was overseas, this does not apply to you.
If you have just graduated from a college or undergraduate course, you may want to continue to study and progress onto a master's or PhD course .
You may be able to extend your Student route visa to do another course, if you have not had a student visa for more than five years and meet additional criteria.
More information and be found on the UK Council for International Student Affairs ( UKCISA) website.
You must extend your visa before you start your new programme.
As long as there is not a gap of more than 28 days between your visa end date and your course start date, you can extend your visa from within the UK, so you don't have to return home.
When you extend your visa, you must meet the requirements in place at the time you apply.
These might have changed from when you applied for your original visa.
You can have a Student route visa for a maximum of five years.
You cannot extend your visa beyond this, unless:
Some courses are exempt from the five-year limit.
If you have previously taken a course that falls into any of these categories, you should let us know when you apply:
Your Student Route visa will be valid for the duration of your course, plus a short amount of time afterwards.
The amount of time your visa is valid for after graduation depends on the length or type of your course:
If you are already in the UK, working or studying or as a dependent (but not as a visitor)  you may be able to apply for a Student Route visa to study at Middlesex University.
We have free advice and support to help you with your application and visa.
After your course is finished, you can also search for a job with an employer who can offer you a Tier 2 (General) visa.
The UK visas and immigration website has more information about work visas.
You can work while you are in the UK with some restrictions on the number of hours and on the type of work you can do.
For example, you cannot be self-employed.
More information about work restrictions can be found on the UK Council for International Student Affairs website.
A placement is an excellent choice for many students.
At Middlesex, many of our undergraduate courses have the option of a placement year to help increase your employability.
We have excellent industry links to help you find a placement that's right for you.
After your course is finished, you can work during the additional period specified above.
You can also search for a job with an employer who can offer you a Tier 2 (General) visa.
The UK Visas and Immigration website has more information about work visas.
If you are graduating in the summer of 2021 and were a student in the UK on a Student Route (or Tier 4) visa by the 5 April 2021, or if you started a programme at degree level or above after this date and which you then successfully complete, you will be eligible for a Graduate Route Visa.
This allows you to stay in the UK to work or look for work for up to two years.
Our advisors are here to offer support to all applicants.
We particularly recommend you contact us if you are not being supported by a professional advisor such as an agent or international office , if you are resuming your education after a gap or are changing direction if you have had a previous visa refusal or if you have been asked to attend a second visa interview as part of your visa application.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/apply-for-short-term-study-visas:
If you are studying at Middlesex on a course that is six months or less, then you can apply for a short-term study visa.
A short-term study visa is a temporary visa that allows you to come to the UK for a maximum of six months.
It is normally used for short English Language or summer school courses.
A short-term study visa is not normally recommended for Pre-sessional English courses as you cannot extend the visa within the UK.
If your course is longer than six months then you must apply for a Student route visa .
We have a team of advisors on hand to answer your questions or concerns.
If you have any questions about visas and immigration, book an appointment with Student Advice .
for CEO and business leaders in the UK - Hitachi Capital Finance 2023
UK University for employability - UniCompare Rankings 2025
You only need to apply for a short-term study visa in advance if you are a visa national.
Check if this applies to you through the UK Government website .
f you are not a visa national, you can get the short-term study visa stamp when you arrive in the UK.
However, you might still want to apply in advance to make things quicker and easier at the airport.
A short-term study visa is always issued for a six-month period however you should leave the UK once your course is completed.
You cannot renew or extend your visa.
If your visa is granted on or after 11 January 2018 then you should leave the UK not more than 30 days after your course completion date (and sooner than this if the visa expires less than 30 days after the course ended).
You will need to provide evidence that:
This evidence includes an offer letter from your institution, documents showing your previous qualifications, and evidence of your English ability.
Find more information about documents you must provide for your visa.
Visit the UK Visas and Immigration website to apply for your visa in advance.
Explore more

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/albania:
We are thrilled that you are considering studying with us.
Studying abroad is a big decision which is why we have created this page to help you find out more about our courses, how to apply, and what student life is like in London.
We’re here to help you in becoming an international student at Middlesex university.
Use the information on this page to identify your next steps.
Find out more about fees and funding .
We are pleased to offer a range of international scholarships and merit awards to international students.
Visit our scholarships page for a list of all Middlesex scholarships you may be eligible for.
We offer a European Academic Award to individuals who have demonstrated academic excellence and ambition in their previous studies.
The scholarship is available to excellent applicants from the EU/EEA 1.
https://app.geckoform.com/public/#/modern/21FO00g4rozmi800bwt5wrejxb 1 Please note that EU/EEA citizens with pre-settled or settled status are not eligible for the award.
You can also apply for the British Government's Chevening Scholarships , and a variety of private agencies and charities for scholarships, bursaries and grants to study in the UK.
For more information visit the British Council website or the UK Council for International Student Affairs website.
The following requirements must be met in order for your visa application to be successful:
Successful applicants will receive an Entry Clearance vignette in their passport and will be able to collect their Biometric Residence permit in the UK.
At Middlesex, you’ll join a truly global community with students from 122 nationalities and campuses in London, Dubai and Mauritius.
We don’t think there is anywhere better to be an international student than Middlesex University but don’t take our word for it and hear from some of our international students about their experience at Middlesex.
Quick links
Applying to Middlesex is a quick and easy process, and we’re here to help you each step of the way.
Depending on which level of study you are applying for there are a number of ways to submit your application.
If you have already made an application, check the status on  our online Applicant Portal.
Find your course

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/argentina:
You will need to have completed one of the following:
A Titulo/Grado de Licenciado/a with a Promedio of 6.0 out of 10 will meet the general admission requirements for entrance into most postgraduate courses at Middlesex University.
You must also meet our standard English Language Requirements .
If you don't meet these or one of our other accepted tests, we offer a Pre-sessional English course.
Find out more about fees and funding.
Visit our scholarships page for a list of all scholarships that international students may be eligible for.
Students are only eligible to receive one scholarship award.
The awards are for full undergraduate or postgraduate degree courses.
Students must have applied to Middlesex and received an offer before they can apply for any of these scholarship awards.
To apply, please use our online application form .
For more information visit the British Council websit e or the UK Council for International Student Affairs website .
All the information you need to apply to Middlesex University is at your fingertips.
Just contact our friendly and experienced Americas and Caribbean Regional Team who will support you at every stage of your application and answer all your questions about studying in the UK.
Email: americas@mdx.ac.uk Phone: +1(917)7481028
We work with a number of Agents in your country who can help you with your application process.
Please note that you should never have to pay for an Agent service.
Our trusted partners in Argentina can also advise you on applying to Middlesex and support you through the application process.
Email: argentina@studiesplanet.com Phone: +54 9 11 2894 7425
How you apply will depend on your level of study.
If you have already made an application, check the status on our Applicant Portal .
Please contact our regional offices for support with your application.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/australia:
You must have completed a high school certificate *with an overall minimum grade of 70%, depending on the programme you apply for.
High School Qualifications are -  Australia Capital Territory Year 12 Certificate, New South Wales: Higher School Certificate (HSC), Northern Territory: Northern Territory Certificate of Education (NTCE), Queensland: Queensland Senior Certificate, South Australia: South Australian Certificate of Education (SACE), Tasmania: Tasmanian Certificate of Education (TCE), Victoria: Victorian Certificate of Education (VCE), Western Australia: Western Australia Certificate of Education (WACE)) with appropriate ATAR score or Overall Position (Queensland)
For entry to International Foundation Program, you must have completed a Year 11 with min.
65% and completion of Year 12 with min.
55%.
You will need to provide a letter of reference from an academic source and a personal statement.
Diploma and Advanced Diploma qualifications will also be considered at Advanced Standing level.
We accept the equivalent of the below qualifications from a recognised overseas qualification.
Postgraduate entry for 2:1
Postgraduate entry for 2:2
If you're a talented student, you may be eligible for either our Regional or International Merit Award, which rewards students with up to £2,000 towards course fees for all taught undergraduate and postgraduate courses.
We also have a limited number of £5,000 Academic Excellence Scholarship Awards available to North and South American students who have demonstrated high levels of academic excellence in their previous studies.
Visit our scholarships page for a list of all other Middlesex scholarships you may be eligible for.
For more information visit the British Council website or the UK Council for International Student Affairs website .
You can now earn £200 by referring friends or family who successfully enroll with us.
Complete our Referral Form.
Our teams can provide all the information you need to apply.
We’re happy to advise you through the entire application process, including offering advice on courses, accommodation, visas and more.
Email: admissionsea@mdxu.org

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/austria:
You must have completed a/the Matura with an overall minimum grade of 2.6 - 2.0, depending on the programme you apply for.
Successfully passed at least one year's higher studies in a relevant subject area.
We require 60 ECTS for entry to year two, and 120 ECTS for entry to year three.
Acceptance is based on a curriculum match between your prior study and the syllabus at Middlesex.
You must hold a good first degree, or four years of higher study in an academic institution, as part of a five-year master's degree course.
We accept a Bachelor degree, Diplomstudium / Magister,  minimum 3 years total study bestanden (pass).You will need to provide two letters of reference from academic sources and a personal statement.
The scholarship is available to excellent applicants from the EU/EEA 1 .Applicants need to apply to Middlesex University first and receive a study offer to be eligible.
As an international student you might need a Student visa to study in the UK.
You can check if you need a visa on the UKVI website.
If you do require a visa it is important that you meet the following criteria: EU nationals WITH Settled or Pre-Settled status - Under the EU Settlement Scheme, you do not require a visa to live, work or study in the UK EU nationals WITHOUT Settled or Pre-Settled status - You will be able to study on a course that lasts 6 months or less without a visa.
If your course is longer than 6 months, you will need to meet the requirements below to obtain a visa:
Applicants who verified their identity through the UK Immigration: ID Check app will receive an e-visa and will be able to evidence their immigration status to others by generating a share code on the UKVI View and Prove Service
Applicants who attended a visa application centre will receive an entry clearance vignette in their passport and should collect their BRP once in the UK.
EU nationals who have made a student route visa application should not travel to the UK until they have received confirmation that their visa has been granted.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/azerbaijan:
If you have any questions about entry requirements and the suitability of your qualifications, please contact your regional team.
For entry to most undergraduate courses, you must have completed the Orta Ixtisas Məktəbləri (Technical/Vocational College Diploma) with an overall minimum grade of 3.5 or  3 for our Foundation Year courses.
For the International Foundation Programme we accept the Certificate of Secondary Education (Attestat) - minimum average grade 3.0 on a 5-point scale.
You must also meet our standard English Language Requirements.
If you have successfully passed at least one year's higher studies in a relevant subject area you may able to enter directly onto the second or third year of one of our undergraduate degrees as a transfer student.
You must also meet our standard English Language Requirements, and as part of the application process you will need to provide a letter of reference from an academic source and a personal statement.
For most postgraduate courses you must hold a Diplomu (Specialist Diploma) or Bakalavr Diplomu (Bachelor degree) with a min of ‘Good’.
Some courses will have prerequisites, such as prior study in a specific subject, work-experience or the submission of a portfolio.
Full details can be found within the specific course information page.
If you don't meet our English language requirements, we offer a Pre-sessional English course.
As part of the application process you will need to provide two letters of reference from academic sources and a personal statement.
We accept Matura with grade 2 in English when both written and oral exams have been taken.
If you don't meet these or one of our other accepted tests, we offer a Pre-sessional English course .
Azeri Student Address: 8 November PR 15, Azure Business Center 20th Floor, Office 135 Baku, Azerbaijan, AZ1025 Phone: +994502917999 Email: info@azeristudent.az Website: www.azeristudent.az

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/bahrain:
You must have completed either: - An Associate Degree from Bahrain in a relevant subject (if you have excellent grades in relevant subjects you may also be eligible for some exemptions) OR - The Tawjahiya with good grades and a recognised one-year foundation programme If you have only completed the Tawjahiya you may be considered for our one-year International Foundation Programme.
If you have successfully passed a Diploma from the College of Health Sciences in Bahrain or other higher studies in a relevant subject area you may able eligible for a credit transfer to one of our undergraduate degrees as a transfer student.
For most postgraduate courses, you must have completed a four-year bachelor degree or equivalent with a minimum grade of 2.4/4 from a recognised university such as the University of Bahrain, Arabian Gulf University or College of Health Sciences.
A lower-second-class degree from a recognised university is a minimum requirement.
This applies to all postgraduate courses (MSc, MA, MPhil), with the exception of the MBA.
For the MBA, all candidates must satisfy strict criteria, which include, a minimum lower-second-class degree from a recognised university, and a minimum of two years of work experience at middle management after undergraduate study.
If you don't meet these we offer a Pre-sessional English course .
Our Regional Office located in Dubai offers a personalised service to students from Saudi Arabia, supporting you in your application to Middlesex, and answering any questions you have about our courses, entry requirements, moving to London and much more.
Phone: +971 4 396 6617 Email: middle-east@mdx.ac.uk Office address: Suite 307, The Business Centre, Khalid Bin Waleed Road, Dubai, UAE Postal address: PO Box 111075, Dubai, UAE

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/bangladesh:
Must have achieved a pass or above in Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) / Intermediate Certificate and 2 years Bachelor’s Degree or Diploma (from the Bangladesh Technical Education Board).
Bachelor degree from BUET - Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology or Master's degree when following a three or four-year Bachelor degree minimum GPA 3.0 Overall or Bangladesh MBBS minimum 3.5.
As part of the current Student route (formerly tier 4) visa regime, prospective students face robust questions about their destination, limits on their ability to work and tighter rules on their English-language capability.
Due to these constraints, we are currently not accepting applicants from Bangladesh to our Pre-Sessional and International Foundation courses until further notice.
Our regional office in Delhi has years of experience supporting students from Bangladesh throughout the application process.
The team provide a personalised, local service and can advise on all aspects of studying at Middlesex University - from courses and the application process; to accommodation, student life and more.
Tel: (91-11) 4606 6014 and 4606 6015 Email: delhi@mdx.ac.uk Address: M58, First Floor, M Block Market, Greater Kailash Part II, New Delhi-110 048, India

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/barbados:
Must have achieved one of the following:
For general admission into most postgraduate programs, applicants will normally need to have completed an honours degree at Barbados Community College or The University of the West Indies, Cave Hill.
Most courses will need a lower second classification or overseas equivalent – however, the entry requirements vary by course.
To find out about entry requirements for a specific degree course, please check the course you're interested in or contact the Americas and Caribbean Regional Team.
Our dedicated Regional Team provides tailored support to students from Barbados.
The team can advise on course applications, scholarships, visa applications and much more.
Book a call: fill out this form to get a call back from the regional team at a selected time and date.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/belgium:
You must also meet our standard English Language Requirements , and as part of the application process you will need to provide a letter of reference from an academic source and a personal statement.
We are pleased to offer a range of international scholarships and merit awards to European and international students.
The scholarship is available to excellent applicants from the EU/EEA 1 .
Under the EU Settlement Scheme, you do not require a visa to live, work or study in the UK
You will be able to study on a course that lasts 6 months or less without a visa.
If your course is longer than 6 months, you will need to meet the requirements below to obtain a visa: Submit an online application through the UKVI website.
Our European regional team offers a personalised service to students from Belgium, supporting you in your application to Middlesex, and answering any questions you have about our courses, entry requirements, student life and more.
Study Experience Belgium 143 avenue Louis, 1050 Bruxelles (Belgium) Email: info@studyexperience.be Website: www.studyexperience.be

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/bermuda:
You'll need to have completed one of the following:
Students who have completed the 2-year course at Bermuda College and obtained high marks on their Diploma of Arts and Science may be able to transfer into Year 2 of a course.
For general admission into most postgraduate degree courses, applicants will normally need to have completed an honours degree or overseas equivalent.
Most courses will require a lower second classification or overseas equivalent.
However, the entry requirements vary by course.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/botswana:
Visit our scholarships pag e for a list of all Middlesex scholarships you may be eligible for.
You can also apply for the Regional Merit Award (£1,000) and the Academic Achievement Award (£3,000 for undergraduate students, £2,000 for Postgraduate students and final-year top-up  undergrads) by contacting your regional office.
Our office in Kenya offers a personalised service to Botswana students, supporting you in your application to Middlesex, and answering any questions you have about our courses, entry requirements, moving to London and much more.
Tel: +254 20 2153497 Mobile: +254 710450118 or +254 736 080133 Email: A.kisala@mdx.ac.uk Address: 2nd Floor, Westlands Square Above Java / Tuskys Westlands Nairobi Kenya
When I graduate, I'm going to work as a software engineer in London, and Middlesex has helped me apply for jobs and helped me with my CVs.
In general, Middlesex has helped me gain knowledge and skills that will help me fit into the workforce outside of my studies.
The university supports me as an international student primarily by creating a very diverse environment.
So when you walk around campus and you hear people speaking different languages, not necessarily English, from different parts of the world,
it helps to be reminded that you're not the only one who's left your country to try this new experience.
Meeting people from different backgrounds, I think that has been the greatest thing about London; I get all that exposure.
And in my final year, I get to work part-time, and the school has provided me with opportunities to volunteer.
Currently, I'm part of the African Caribbean society.
Um, we do have a group chat on WhatsApp, and we've also had, like, uh, we get together at parties as well.
Being an international student moving to a new country by myself, it's scary, but I currently live in Plaxtol.
I quickly made friends.
I got to meet a student who was doing my course, psychology, and she was my classmate.
And the campus is in one place; everything is situated in the same area.
Facilities as well, like the StoneX Stadium.
I love having my classes next to the stadium.
It's fun looking out to see the green grass and everything, so it really helps.
Also, if you want to get to know London, it's quite easy.
Uh, you can always take the tube or the bus anywhere in London.
As an international fan, for example, I always wanted to go to the Emirates Stadium.
At the time that I was applying to Middlesex, living mostly in Central and East Africa, I used the regional office in Nairobi.
They were really helpful in answering my questions and guiding me through the process.
I sat down with my lecturer, and she said to me, "Well, Primrose, why don't you consider the wellbeing services?" And it changed my life.
It was great.
So I think it was just a wonderful experience knowing that the school not only cares for my grades but they also really care about my wellbeing.
They care about that, and they want to make sure that you're doing well.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/brazil:
You may be considered for advanced entry to undergraduate degree courses if you have completed a period of study at university.
Please contact the Regional Team for more details.
You'll be expected to hold a good Bacharel/Licenciado/Professional Title – of at least four years – from a recognised institution in a subject relevant to your proposed postgraduate study.
We would generally expect you to have achieved a minimum grade of 6.5.
Each course will have specific grade requirements and prerequisites.
You can find full details within the specific course information page.
The Chevening Scholarship scheme offers financial support to study for a Master's degree in the UK in the following fields:
Our dedicated Regional Team provides tailored support to students from Brazil.
The team can advise on course applications, scholarships, visa applications, English language courses and much more.
Language Partners - Study in the UK Email: info@languagepartners.co.uk Phone: +55 (11) 5083 4653 / Whatsapp +44 7788 620213 Address: Rua Tenente Gomes Ribeiro, 182 - cj.
74, V.
Mariana - São Paulo - SP - 04038-040 Website: http://www.languagepartners.co.uk/br/
Love Edu Email: contato@loveedu.com.br Phone: +55 11930637967 Address: Rua General Jardim 618, 2 andar, conj.
21, São Paulo, 01223-010
OK Student Brasil Email: info@okstudent.com.br Phone: +55 11 32301338 / 930637967 Address: Avenida Queiroz Filho 1560, Condominio Vista Verde Office, Torre Sabiá, sala 119, São Paulo
Studies Planet Email: brasil@studiesplanet.com Phone: +55 11 96623 9696 Address: Rua Joaquim Floriano, 72 - 8º andar - CONJ.87 - Itaim Bibi- São Paulo
loveEDU Assessoria Email: contato@loveedu.com.br Phone: +55 11930637967 Address: Rua General Jardim, 618, conj.
21, Vila Buarque, São Paulo-SP, 01223-904, Brasil Website: https://loveedu.com.br/ WhatsApp: +55 11 93063 7967

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/brunei:
Our regional office in Malaysia has years of experience supporting students from Indonesia throughout the application process.
Email: admissionsea@mdxu.org Telephone: +603 5631 1588 or +603 5631 8588 (Monday - Friday, 10am - 6pm) Address: B-09-23A Empire SOHO Empire Subang Jalan SS16/1 Subang Jaya 47500 Selangor Malaysia

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/bulgaria:
You must have completed Diploma za Sredno Spetsialno Obrazovanie when awarded after four years of study, with a minimum grade of 4.2 - 4.8, depending on the course you are applying for.
For most postgraduate courses, you must have completed a good Bachelor degree post 2002 with minimum 4-5 overall, equivalent to a British second-class Honours Degree.
Integral Evlogi Georgiev 99 Sofia Bulgaria Tel: +359/28050600 Email: integral@integral.bg

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/cameroon:
General Certificate of Education Advanced Level or Diplôme de Technicien / Ordinary Technical Diploma or Diplôme Universitaire de Technologie with grade 13.
Maitrise - Honourable, or Diplome d'Ingenieur , Diplome Superieures de Commerce with grade 14.
If you don't meet these, we offer a Pre-sessional English course .
You can also apply for the Regional Merit Award (£1,000) and the Academic Achievement Award (£3,000 for undergraduate students or £2,000 for Postgraduate students and final year top-up undergrads) by contacting your regional office.
Our network of regional offices across Nigeria have years of experience supporting students throughout the application process.
They also attend a number of events and fairs in Nigeria each year.
Email: nigeria@mdx.ac.uk Tel: +234 8062372058, +234 8126669299, +234 8126669985 Address: 1st Floor, Silverbird Galleria Plot 133 Ahmadu Bello Way Victoria Island Lagos
Email: nigeria@mdx.ac.uk Tel: +234 81 6007 1824 or +234 81 8624 5694 Address: 3rd Floor, APTECH Centre 24 Aminu Kanu Crescent Beside Sharif Plaza Wuse II Abuja, Nigeria

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/canada:
Undergraduate applicants from Canada will need to have completed one of the following:
Students who have completed the two-year Associate degree may be eligible for advanced standing onto the second year of an undergraduate degree course.
For general admission onto most postgraduate courses applicants will need to have completed a bachelor's degree from an accredited university or college with a Grade Point Average of 3.0 or higher.
Canadian Student Grants and Loans
As a Canadian citizen or permanent resident, you can apply for a provincial student loan through the National Student Loans Service Centre (NSLSC) to help cover your fees and living costs.
If you are an applicant, you can send your provincial form to usloans@mdx.ac.uk .
Federal and Provincial Student Loans In some instances, it is possible to use Canada Federal Student Loans and Provincial Student Loans for study in the UK.
In order to qualify for Canadian loans, you must demonstrate your financial need.
Federal loans are handled through a lender called the National Student Loans Service Centre and Provincial loans are handled through the provincial governments and student aid branches.
You can find detailed information on the financial aid process from the Campus Access website.
Your loans will not be processed by Middlesex University.
However, we are able to verify your student status and/or confirm your acceptance onto a course if required for your financial aid disbursement.
If you need us to do so, please email our Student Loans Manager, Sue Day .
Our dedicated Regional Team provides tailored support to students from Canada.
The team can advise on course applications, credit transfers, scholarships and loans, visa applications and much more.
Our trusted partners in Canada can also advise you on applying to Middlesex and support you through the application process.
Across the Pond Tel: +1 (905) 315 1190 Email: info@studyacrossthepond.com Website: Study across the pond Students Solution Educational Services Limited Address: Suite 1901, 5000 Yonge Street, Toronto, ON, M2N 7E9 Tel: + (416) 628-3815 Email: headoffice@studentssolution.co.uk Study in UK (SI-UK) Address: 333 Bay Street, 14th Floor, M5H 2R2 Tel: +1 416-998-8532 E-mail: toronto@studyin-uk.com Website: Study in UK Address: 1055 W Georgia St, Unit 2136, Vancouver, BC, Canada V6E 3N9 Tel: +1 778-955-2545 E-mail: vancouver@studyin-uk.com Website: Study in UK
Address: 10 Floor Bankers Hall West, 888, 3rd Street.
South West, Suite 1000, Calgary, Alberta, T2P 5C5, Canada Tel: +1 (403) 244 - 3809 E-mail: alberta@studyin-uk.com Website: Study in UK

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/chile:
For entry to most of our undergraduate courses, we require successful completion of the High School Diploma (Grado de Bachiller) with a minimum grade average of 5.5 out of 7.0, depending on the course you are applying for.
You may be considered for advanced entry to the second year of some undergraduate courses if you have completed a Técnico Superior or a Técnico Universitario.
Please contact the Americas & Caribbean Regional Team for more details.
For entry to most of our postgraduate courses, we require successful completion of a Titulo de Grado with a minimum grade average of 5.2 or above, depending on the course you are applying for.
Finally, we also have a limited number of £5,000 Santander Academic Excellence Awards available towards course fees for the first year of study for Latin American students who have demonstrated academic excellence.
Please note: Students are only eligible to receive one scholarship award.
Trusted educational consultants in Chile Our trusted partners in Chile can also advise you on applying to Middlesex and support you through the application process.
Studies Planet Phone: +56 2 2979 8409 Email: chile@studiesplanet.com Website: Studies Planet
MAS Education Phone: +56 9 5513 5420 Email: information@maseducation.org Website: MAS Education

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/china:
For entry to most of our undergraduate courses, we require successful completion of College Entrance Examination with 60% or China High School Graduation Certificate with a minimum average of 75.
To find out more about our entry requirements for China, please read our guide.
Pre-sessional English and ongoing English language support.
For students who would like to study at Middlesex, but don't meet our English language requirements we offer a range of pre-sessional English courses.
By the end of the course you will have the academic English and confidence to study on a Middlesex degree.
You can find the start dates and fees for our Pre-sessional English courses on the Pre-sessional course page .
We also provide English language support throughout your degree programme.
We run free workshops and one-to-one tutorials in academic writing, English language, and communication so you can continue to improve your English skills while you study with us.
We are pleased to offer a range of international scholarships and merit awards to undergraduate and postgraduate international students.
This gold standard scholarship allows a high achieving student who is a permanent resident in China the opportunity to study full time for a one-year masters programme, in an Art and Design discipline at Middlesex University.
The scholarship will fund tuition fees and living expenses in London for the duration of the programme.
Please contact the Asia Pacific Regional Hub for more details.
We offer scholarships for our partner institutions namely SQA centers in China.
A range of scholarships are available:
Our network of regional offices across China have years of experience supporting students throughout the application process.
Asia Pacific Regional Hub - Hong Kong
Unit D,  28th Floor, CNT Tower, 338 Hennessy Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong
Asia Pacific Regional Hub - Shanghai
798 Zhao Jia Bang Road Shanghai, 200030 PR CHINA 上海市肇嘉浜路 798 号坤阳国际广场 1404 室 200030
Tel: +86-21-6448 0038 WeChat: MiddlesexSH Email: shanghai@mdxu.org Asia Pacific Regional Hub - Beijing
Room 1906, East Ocean Centre 24A Jian Guo Men Wai Street Chaoyang District Beijing, 100004 PR CHINA 北京市朝阳区建国门外大街甲 24 号东海中心 1906 室 100004
Tel: +86-10-6515 6179 WeChat: MiddlesexBeijing Email: beijing@mdxu.org Asia Pacific Regional Hub - Shenzhen
No.4008 Jiefang Road College Of Continuing Education Shenzhen University Luohu District Shenzhen City Guangdong Province
WeChat: mdxuchina Email: shenzhen@mdxu.org Tel: +86 755 2598 4452

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/colombia:
Post Graduate Applicants will be expected to hold a good licenciado/bachelor degree from a recognised institution.
Our dedicated Regional Team provides tailored support to students from Colombia.
Our trusted partners in Colombia can also advise you on applying to Middlesex and support you through the application process.
D&I Global Tel: (+44)7897289910 E-mail: info@diglobal-ltd.com MAS Education Tel: +57 314 215 2727 Email: information@maseducation.org Website: MAS Education Address: Calle 26 #59-51 Torre A Oficina 311 Centro Empresarial Sarmiento Angulo Bogota Colombia
STM Education Tel: + 57 457 4820 E-mail: info@stmeducation.co Website: STM Education Studies Planet Tel: +57 311 475 3505 / +57 324 283 5641 Email: colombia1@studiesplanet.com Website: Studies Planet SI-UK Colombia Tel: +57 318 3499429 / +57 1 7186226 Email: bogota@studyin-uk.com Website: SI-UK

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/croatia:
For entry to most undergraduate courses, you must have completed Svjedodžba o Maturi with a minimum grade of 3.4 - 4, depending on the course you are applying for.
As part of the application process you will need to provide a letter of reference from an academic source and a personal statement.
For most postgraduate courses, you must have completed a Baccalaureus with a minimum grade of 2.5 or 3.0, depending on the course you are applying for.
As part of the application process, you will need to provide two letters of reference from academic sources and a personal statement.
Who can apply:
When to apply:
How to apply
Travelling to the UK
Our European Regional Team offers a personalised service to students from Croatia, supporting you in your application to Middlesex, and answering any questions you have about our courses, entry requirements, student life and more.
Our representative in Croatia can provide local support and advise you through the application process.
BHV Education Address: Martićeva 1310000 Zagreb, Croatia Phone: +385 1 4812 200 Email: education@bhvedu.com Website: BHV Education

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/cyprus:
For entry to most undergraduate courses, you must have completed either:
If you have only completed Devlet Lise Diplomasi you may be considered for our one-year International Foundation Programme.
Students who successfully complete the one-year International Foundation at Middlesex will automatically progress onto a Middlesex degree.
Each course will have specific grade requirements and some will have prerequisites, such as prior study in a specific subject or submission of a portfolio.
Full details can be found within the specific course information page .
We accept the Apolyterion in English with a final average of 18/20.
If you don't meet these, we offer a Pre-sessional English course.
As part of the application process, you will need to provide a letter of reference from an academic source and a personal statement.
For most postgraduate courses, you must have completed a bachelor degree (Ptychio) from Open University of Cyprus or University of Cyprus or Cyprus University of Technology with a minimum of 6.5 GPA overall and for all other private Universities an overall grade of 2.5 is required depending on the course.
If you don't meet our English language requirements, we offer a Pre-sessional English course .
Our MBA courses require at least two years of post-graduation work experience at management level, and in some cases a GMAT score of over 550 will also be required.
Our Cyprus-based European Regional Team offers a personalised service to students from Cyprus, supporting you in your application to Middlesex, and answering any questions you have about our courses, entry requirements, student life and more.
Our representatives in Cyprus can provide local support and advise you through the application process.
Global Education Services Address: 22a Sina Street Block B Office 003 2406 Engomi
Nicosia Phone: +35722780250 Email: marianna@globaleducationcy.com

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/czech-republic:
Most courses require successful completion of the Vysvědčení o maturitní zkoušce (Secondary School Leaving Certificate) with a grade average of at least 2.75 - 2.0, depending on the course you are applying for.
Most courses require successful completion of a good Bachelor degree / Bakalar if studied after 2001 with a grade average of at least 2.5.
You will need to provide two letters of reference from academic sources and a personal statement.
We accept a range of English tests, taken within two years of the start of your course.
The most commonly accepted is:
You can find a full list of acceptable English language qualifications here .
If you don't meet any of these, we offer a Pre-sessional English course .
Our European Regional Team offers a personalised service to students from Czech Republic, supporting you in your application to Middlesex, and answering any questions you have about our courses, entry requirements, student life and more.
We often visit schools, colleges and education fairs in Czech Republic.
All upcoming visits in the region are listed on our international fairs page.
Our representative in Czech Republic can provide local support and advise you through the application process.
UNILINK Address: Korunní Dvur A2, Korunni 104 101 00 Praha 10 - Vinohrady Czech Republic Tel: +420 734 693 278 Email: info@unlink.cz Website: UNILINK

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/denmark:
For entry to most undergraduate courses, you must have completed the Studentereksamen, Højere Forberedelseseksamen, Højere Handelseksamen or Højere Teknisk Eksamen.
We require a minimum grade of 4 or 7 depending on the course you are applying for.
You must also meet our standard English Language Requirements Stundentereksamen: Grade 7 in English.
For most postgraduate courses, you must have completed a good Bachelor Degree (Candidatus Philosophiae) with an overall grade minimum of 8-10, depending on the course you are applying for.
You must also meet our standard English Language Requirements Stundentereksamen: Grade 10 in English.
Our European Regional Team offers a personalised service to students from Denmark, supporting you in your application to Middlesex, and answering any questions you have about our courses, entry requirements, student life and more.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/dominican-republic:
You will need one of the following:
You may be considered for advanced entry to undergraduate courses if you have completed a period of study at university.
For most postgraduate courses we require a good Licenciatura, of at least four years, from a recognised institution in a subject relevant to your proposed postgraduate study.
We generally expect a minimum grade of 80 out of 100 or 3.2 out of 4.0 GPA.
You must also satisfy our standard English language requirements .
Middlesex has an agreement with the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology (MESCyT) to provide scholarships to students from the Dominican Republic at Postgraduate level.
You can apply directly on the MESCyT website through their application portal .

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/ecuador:
We require one of the following for entry to most of our undergraduate courses:
Students who only have the Bachillerato can apply for our one-year International Foundation Programme – if you complete this successfully, you'll automatically progress to a Middlesex University degree course.
You must also satisfy our standard English language requirements.
You may be considered for entry to years two or three of our undergraduate courses if you have completed a period of study at university.
We usually require a good Licenciado/bachelor's degree (four years or more) from a recognised institution in a subject relevant to your proposed postgraduate study.
We generally expect you to have achieved at least 3.5 out of 5.0 or 7 where graded out of 10.
At Middlesex, we want to recognize your heritage.
Students from North and South America who have dual citizenship from an EU country are eligible for the EU Heritage Scholarship.
This award allows students to pay EU fees rather than international fees for the full duration of the programme.
Ecuador's Ministry of Science and Innovation (SENESCYT) offers up to US $250,000 in scholarships for flights, the course of study and living costs in return for working in Ecuador for two years for every one year abroad.
The Chevening Scholarship scheme offers financial support to study for a masters degree in the UK in the following fields: Human Rights, Governance and Democracy, Media and journalism, Security, International Trade and Investment related areas, International Relations and Diplomacy, Sustainable Development and Climate Change.
A scholarship includes: a monthly stipend, travel to and from your country via an approved route, an arrival and excess baggage allowance, a thesis or dissertation grant, the cost of an entry clearance visa and tuition fees to a limit of £12,000.
Fundacion Beca can assist Latin American postgraduate students with obtaining loans to study in the UK.
Our trusted partner in Ecuador can also advise you on applying to Middlesex and support you through the application process.
MAS Education Email: simonterrington@maseducation.org Phone: +57 (0)320 4945977 Website: MAS Education

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/egypt:
For most undergraduate courses, you must have completed a 2 year diploma from a recognized institute after General Secondary School from Egypt along with IELTS 6.0 with min 5.5 in each component.
For most postgraduate courses, you must have completed a 4 years Bachelors from a recognized university with min 65% good Bachelor degree, equivalent to a British second class honours degree.
If you do require a visa it is important that you meet the following criteria:
Our Middle East, Africa and Pakistan Regional Office located in Dubai offers a personalised service to students from Egypt, supporting you in your application to Middlesex, and answering any questions you have about our courses, entry requirements, moving to London and much more.
Phone: +971 4 396 6617 Email: middle-east@mdx.ac.uk Office address: Suite 307 The Business Centre Khalid Bin Waleed Road Dubai UAE Postal address: PO Box 111075, Dubai, UAE

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/estonia:
For entry to most undergraduate courses, you must have completed a Gumnaasumi Lõputunnistus.
We require minimum overall grade of 3.5-4.0 with at least a 55-70% in the state exams, depending on the course you are applying for.
For most postgraduate courses, you must have completed a good Bachelor Degree (Bakalaurusekraad) with a minimum grade 3-4, depending on the course you are applying for.
Students must also meet our standard English Language Requirements .
We accept a pass in the English State Exam at level B2 in the Gumnaasumi Lõputunnistus, as evidence of your English language ability for most undergraduate courses.
Our European Regional Team offers a personalised service to students from Estonia, supporting you in your application to Middlesex, and answering any questions you have about our courses, entry requirements, student life and more.
Bellnor Address: Tuukri põik 10 - 16, Tallinn Phone: +372 6609 606 Email: info@bellnor.ee

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/finland:
For entry to most undergraduate courses, you must have completed Ylioppilastutkinto with a minimum grade of Cum laude approbatur or 4 - Magna cum laude approbatur or 5, depending on the course you are applying for.
For most postgraduate courses, you must have completed a good Bachelor Degree (Kandidat) with a minimum grade 3-4, depending on the course you are applying for.
We accept a minimum grade 5 in English in the Ylioppilastutkinto as evidence of your English language ability for most undergraduate courses.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/france:
Most courses require successful completion of the Baccalauréat with a minimum grade of 12-13.5, depending on the course you are applying for.
For most postgraduate courses, you must have completed a good Bachelor Degree (License) with a grade Assez Bien or Bien, depending on the course you are applying for.
Students must also meet our standard English Language Requirement s.
We accept a minimum score of 14 in English in the Baccalauréat, as evidence of your English language ability for most undergraduate courses.
If you don't meet these or one of our other accepted qualifications, we offer a Pre-sessional English course .
Our European Regional Team offers a personalised service to students from France, supporting you in your application to Middlesex, and answering any questions you have about our courses, entry requirements, student life and more.
Our representative in France can provide local support and advise you through the application process.
Study Experience Email: info@studyexperience.fr Website: Study Experience Address: 66 rue Condorcet, 75009 Paris Tel: +33 1 71 60 03 06 Studies UP Email: contact@studiesup.com Website: Studies UP Address: 104 rue d'Aguesseau, 92100 Boulogne-Billancourt Tel: +33 7 60 96 68 39

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/germany:
For entry to most undergraduate courses, you must have completed Zeugnis der Allgemeinen Hochschulreife / Abitur or a Fachhochschulreife with an overall minimum grade of 2.0 - 2.6, depending on the programme you apply for.
For most postgraduate courses you must hold a good Bachelor degree or Magister or Diplom with a minimum grade of 2.7-2.3, depending on the course you are applying for.
We accept: Zeugnis der Allgemeinen Hochschulreife / Abitur minimum 11 (gut) in English when taken as an achievement/main/intensive course Fachhochschulreife minimum 2 (Gut) in English DAAD minimum C1.
Our European Regional Team offers a personalised service to students from Germany, supporting you in your application to Middlesex, and answering any questions you have about our courses, entry requirements, student life and more.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/ghana:
If you have only completed the SSCE you may be considered for our one-year International Foundation Programme.
For most postgraduate courses, you must have completed a good Bachelor Degree, equivalent to a British second class honours degree.
For the scholarships - Regional Merit Award (£1,000) and Academic Achievement Award (£3,000 for undergraduate students and £2,000 for Postgraduate students and final year top-up undergrads.
Ghana Education Trust Fund, Ministry of Energy, Petroleum Commission, Tullow Oil, Bank of Ghana, Ministry of Education, Chevening Scholarships, Commonwealth Scholarship, Ghana Scholarship Secretariat, Ghana National Petroleum Corporation, Ghana National Petroleum Corporation Learning Foundation.
Please contact you regional office .
Email: nigeria@mdx.ac.uk Tel: +234 81 6007 1824 or +234 81 8624 5694 Address: 3rd Floor, APTECH Centre 24 Aminu Kanu Crescent Beside Sharif Plaza Wuse II Abuja Nigeria

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/greece:
For entry to most undergraduate courses, you must have completed Apolytirio of Lykeio (Apolytirion) with a minimum grade of 16.5-17.5, depending on the programme you are applying for.
Results obtained in the general entrance examination may also be taken into account, and we can also accept a combination of both Apolytirion and A-level.
For most postgraduate courses, you must have completed a good Bachelor Degree, equivalent to a British second-class Honours Degree.
Our representative in Greece can provide local support and advise you through the application process.
BRIVE - Study Abroad Phone: +30 215 215 9858 Email: is@brive.com and info@brive.com Address: 217 Alexandras Avenue 115 23 Athens Website: BRIVE - Study Abroad NETWORK Educational Group - Athens Phone: +30 210 7488 131 Email: admissions@network.gr Address: 84 Vasilissis Sofias Avenue Ampelokipi Athens 115 28 Website: NETWORK Educational Group NETWORK Educational Services - Thessaloniki Phone: +30 2310 240 394 Email: salonica@network.gr Address: 18 Pavlou Mela Street Thessaloniki 546 22 Website: NETWORK Educational Services UniBridge Direct Study Abroad - Athens Phone: +30 210 010 8645 and +30 210 010 8646 Email: info@unibridgedirect.com Address: 64 Louizis Riankour Street “Apollon” Tower B’ Panormou Athens 115 23 Website: UniBridge Direct

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/hong-kong:
The Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education is acceptable and the University will award tariff points up to a maximum of six subjects taken as part of the Diploma.
We accept the full International Baccalaureate diploma.
In some cases, applicants will also need to have studied certain subjects at Standard or Higher Level.
Students completing Higher Diplomas and Associate Degrees at recognised institutions will be eligible for direct entry to the second or third year of relevant Middlesex University degree courses.
We require successful completion of a Bachelors degree equivalent to a UK second class honours degree (2:2).
Students with Grade 4 in English A1 (Standard or Higher), Grade 4 in English B (Higher) or Grade 5 in English B (Standard) will meet our English language requirements.
See other accepted English language qualifications.
Graduates of Hong Kong based universities may be exempt from English language requirements .
Holders of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Passports need to meet the same requirements as other Chinese Citizens.
Holders of British National (Overseas) passports wishing to study in the UK can do so on either a Student Route visa or a BN(O) visa.
If you apply for a study route visa , you must present all the usual documents, with the exception of financial records, which must be provided only if requested.
Our Asia Pacific Regional Hub is located in Hong Kong, and offers specialist support to students on a variety of matters, from course applications and visa applications to English language courses and much more.
They have years of experience supporting students from Hong Kong and will also be able to suggest the most appropriate course of study for you, depending on your experience and academic ability.
Email: admissionhk@mdxu.org Tel: +852 2503 0111 Fax: +852 2503 0525

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/india:
Due to these constraints, we are currently not accepting applicants from India to our Pre-Sessional and International Foundation courses until further notice.
Minimum 50% or above from a Local Board Examination or its equivalent.
A good first degree from a recognised university or equivalent with minimum 50% or above.
For our MBA courses, we require a second-class honours degree or above, or an overseas equivalent qualification.
Candidates should also have a minimum of two years' managerial or professional experience in a full-time position following graduation.
Candidates without an honours degree need to demonstrate a significantly successful managerial experience and may be required to complete a GMAT test with a minimum score of 550.
Students must satisfy our standard English language requirements .
Our network of regional offices across India has years of experience supporting students throughout the application process.
The team provide personalised, local service and can advise on all aspects of studying at Middlesex University - from courses and the application process; to accommodation, student life and more.
Delhi Mobile: +91 93112 35511 and +91 80762 62114 Email: delhi@mdx.ac.uk Address: Flat No.
714, 7th Floor, Ashoka Estate 24, Barakhamba Road New Delhi, Delhi, 110001 India
Chennai Tel: (91-44) 2836 2965 and 2836 2975 Email: chennai@mdx.ac.uk Address: No.
1, 2nd Floor Salzburg Square 107 Harrington Road Chetpet Chennai-600 031

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/indonesia:
You should have successfully completed one of the following qualifications:
If you don't have one of the above, you can apply to the International Foundation Programme at Middlesex, successful completion of which guarantees admission onto a degree programme.
For entry to International Foundation Program , you must have completed:
As part of the application process, you will need to provide a letter of reference from an academic source, a personal statement and attend and pass Credibility Interview.
Most courses do not require work experience, with the exception of the Masters in Business Administration (MBA) where applicants must have at least three years' work experience at management level.
CGPAs of 2.5 and above may also be considered.
Please note that you must also meet our standard English language requirements .
You can now earn £200 by referring friends or family who successfully enrol with us.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/iran:
You must have a minimum pre-university certificate (Peeshdaneshgahe) with min marks 12-14 depending on the entry requirements of the course you are interested in.
If you have achieved a Foundation Degree, CertHE, DipHE, HNC, HND or a number of modules of an undergraduate degree course at another university, you may be able to enter directly into the second or third year of one of our undergraduate degree courses as a transfer student.
You must have completed a good Bachelor(Karshenasi) from recognized institute – 13/20 required.
Our Middle East, Africa and Pakistan Regional Office located in Dubai offers a personalised service to students from Iran, supporting you in your application to Middlesex, and answering any questions you have about our courses, entry requirements, moving to London and much more.
Phone: +971 4 396 6617 Email: middle-east@mdx.ac.uk Office address: Suite 307, The Business Centre Khalid Bin Waleed Road Dubai UAE Postal address: PO Box 111075, Dubai, UAE

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/iraq:
Applicants should have 2 years Technical Diploma (60-70%) - depending on the entry requirements of the course you are interested in studying.
Applicants should have a Higher Diploma/PG Diploma 70% from a recognized institute(We do not accept Bachelors degree from Iraq for entry onto Masters at Middlesex.
Higher Diploma is a 2 years PG Diploma).
Our Middle East, Africa and Pakistan Regional Office located in Dubai offers a personalised service to students from Iraq, supporting you in your application to Middlesex, and answering any questions you have about our courses, entry requirements, moving to London and much more.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/ireland:
For entry to most undergraduate courses, you must have completed Leaving Certificate passed at Higher / Honours level with a minimum H3 H3 H3 H3, depending on the course you are applying for.
Irish nationals are not subject to immigration controls and do not require a visa to:
Our European Regional Team offers a personalised service to students from Ireland, supporting you in your application to Middlesex, and answering any questions you have about our courses, entry requirements, student life and more.
Our representative in Dublin can provide local support and advise you through the application process.
Education Resources Tel: 01 492 9469 Email: hpjobrien@gmail.com Address: 4th Floor 31 Lower Leeson Street Dublin 2

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/israel:
For entry to most undergraduate courses, you must have graduated high school with good Bagrut grades.
For most postgraduate courses, you must have completed a good Bachelor degree, equivalent to a British second class honours degree.
Our Regional Office located in Dubai offers a personalised service to students from Israel, supporting you in your application to Middlesex, and answering any questions you have about our courses, entry requirements, moving to London and much more.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/italy:
For entry to most undergraduate courses, you must have completed the Esame di Stato with a minimum grade of 6.5 - 8.
For most postgraduate courses, you must have completed a bachelor degree (Laurea) from a recognised institution, with a grade of 95-105, depending on the course you are applying for.
Our European Regional Team offers a personalised service to students from Italy, supporting you in your application to Middlesex, and answering any questions you have about our courses, entry requirements, student life and more.
Our local representative in Italy can provide local support and advise you through the application process.
WEP Address: Via Statuto 18 20121 Milano Phone: +39 02 659 8510 Website: WEP

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/jamaica:
For general admission onto most postgraduate degree courses, applicants will normally need to have completed an honours degree accredited by the University Council of Jamaica, or when awarded by the Council of Community Colleges of Jamaica, or overseas equivalent.
How to apply Students are only eligible to receive one scholarship award.
At Middlesex, we want to recognise your heritage.
Successful applicants will receive an Entry Clearance vignette in their passport and will be able to collect their Biometric Residence permit in the UK
Our dedicated Regional Team provides tailored support to students from Jamaica.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/japan:
Students who have completed High School (Year 12) may apply to our Bachelor Degree with Integrated Foundation Year (4-year course).
Students may be considered for advanced entry to undergraduate courses if they have completed a period of study at university.
Students who have completed year one of University in Japan, may be able to enter on to year one entry of an undergraduate degree at Middlesex.
Students completing Associate Degrees and Diplomas at recognised institutions will be eligible for direct entry to the second or third year of relevant Middlesex University degree courses.
Students must have completed a Bachelor Degree with minimum of 70% from a recognised university in Japan.
If you don't meet our English language requirements you may be able to undertake a pre-sessional English course before you begin your studies.
Our Asia Pacific Regional Hub offers specialist support to students on a variety of matters, from course applications and visa applications to English language courses and much more.
They have years of experience supporting students from Japan and will also be able to suggest the most appropriate course of study for you, depending on your experience and academic ability.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/jordan:
You must have completed either:
Students from Jordan normally follow a four-year undergraduate course at Middlesex University, with the first year on the International Foundation Programme (IFP).
For entry onto our International Foundation Programme you will need to have graduated from high school (year 12) with good grades and have a minimum of IELTS of 5.5, or equivalent recognised English language test.
For most postgraduate courses, you must have completed a good Bachelor degree from a recognised university, equivalent to a British second class honours degree.
Once you have completed the above items successfully, a CAS will be issued.
Our Middle East, Africa and Pakistan Regional Office located in Dubai offers a personalised service to students from Jordan, supporting you in your application to Middlesex, and answering any questions you have about our courses, entry requirements, moving to London and much more.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/kenya:
For entry to most undergraduate courses you must have completed the Diploma / Ordinary Diploma with C grade.
We will also consider applicants who have completed various stages of their studies from other institutions and awarding bodies including ACCA, Aptech, Association of Computer Professionals (ACP), Association of Business Executives (ABE), BTEC, CIM, IMIS, Informatics, Intel Computers Nairobi, National Institute of Information Technology (NIIT), NCC and other pre-university foundation courses.
If you don't meet the minimum requirements you may be considered for our one-year International Foundation Programme.
We recognise qualifications from a range of awarding bodies including NCC, Aptech , ABE and Edexcel (BTEC/Pearson).
For most postgraduate courses, you must have completed a good Bachelor degree, equivalent to a British second class honours degree, from a recognised university.
For scholarships such as Regional Merit Award (£1,000), and Academic Achievement Award (£3,000 for undergraduate students and £2,000 for Postgraduate students and final year top-up undergrads) contact your regional office.
Our Kenyan Regional Office have years of experience supporting students throughout the application process.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/kuwait:
Students from Kuwait normally follow a four-year undergraduate course at Middlesex University, with the first year on the International Foundation Programme (IFP).
For entry onto our International Foundation Programme you will need to have graduated from the Shahadat-al-thanawia-al-a'ama (General Secondary School Certificate) with good grades and have a minimum of IELTS of 5.5, or equivalent recognised English language test.
We welcome students from both the science and the social studies streams.
Applicants should have a Diploma/Certificate from PAEET College.
Students currently studying at the University of Kuwait may apply to transfer to one of our degree courses in the UK.
Applications will be considered on a case-by-case basis, and acceptance granted to students with good results.
We will consider degrees in the following subject areas:
Applicants are required to have a bachelor degree (4 years) from a recognized university with GPA 2.4/4.
Our Middle East, Africa and Pakistan Regional Office located in Dubai offers a personalised service to students from Kuwait, supporting you in your application to Middlesex, and answering any questions you have about our courses, entry requirements, moving to London and much more.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/latvia:
For entry to most undergraduate courses, you must have completed Atestats par visparejo videjo izglitibu and have a good result in five final examinations.
You will need a minimum score of 6-8, depending on the course you are applying for.
For most postgraduate courses, you must have completed a good Bachelor Degree/Bakalaura Diploma with a grade 6-7, depending on the course you are applying for.
Students must also meet our standard English Language Requirements.
We accept Grade 8 at Level A in English in your Atestats par visparejo videjo izglitibu, as evidence of your English language ability for most undergraduate courses.
Our European Regional Team offers a personalised service to students from Latvia, supporting you in your application to Middlesex, and answering any questions you have about our courses, entry requirements, student life and more.
Our representative in Latvia can provide local support and advise you through the application process.
Kalba.lv Address: 5 Valnu Street Riga LV-1050 Latvia Mobile: +371 25638009 E-mail: studies@kalba.lv Website: Kalba.
lv

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/lithuania:
For entry to most undergraduate courses, you must have completed the Brandos Atestatas with a minimum grade of 7.0 - 8.0, depending on the course you are applying for.
For most postgraduate courses, you must have completed a good Bachelor Degree/Bakalauro Diplomas with a grade 7-8, depending on the course you are applying for.
We accept Brandos Atestatas with a minimum grade 8 in English B2 Level, as evidence of your English language ability for most undergraduate courses.
Our European Regional Team offers a personalised service to students from Lithuania , supporting you in your application to Middlesex, and answering any questions you have about our courses, entry requirements, student life and more.
Our representative in Lithuania can provide local support and advise you through the application process.
Kalba.lt Phone: +3708 800 30030 Email: info@kalba.lt Address: Lvovo st.
25 Vilnius Lithuania LT-09320 Website: Kalba.lt

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/luxembourg:
For entry to most undergraduate courses, you must have completed Diplôme de Fin d'Etudes Secondaires with a minimum grade of 39-36 (Assez Bien) to 47-40 (Bien), depending on the course you are applying for.
You may be able to enter directly into the second year if you have successfully completed the Certificat d'Aptitude Technique et Professionnelle / Certificat d'Etudes Juridiques et Economiques / Certificat d'Etudes Littéraires et de Sciences Humaines / Certificat d'Etudes Scientifiques.
For most postgraduate courses, you must have completed a good Bachelor Degree with a minimum grade of 15-17, depending on the course you are applying for.
We accept 45 (Bien) in English in Diplôme de Fin d'Etudes Secondaires, as evidence of your English language ability for most undergraduate courses.
Our European Regional Team offers a personalised service to students from Luxembourg , supporting you in your application to Middlesex, and answering any questions you have about our courses, entry requirements, student life and more.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/malaysia:
We accept a UEC qualification directly into our undergraduate year 1 programme, provided the student has achieved a minimum score of B or above in 5 main subjects (excluding a language subject).
We also recognise a range of foundation course awarded by other bodies, eg, the Canadian International Matriculation Programme (CIMP) and the South Australian Matriculation (SAM).
Students who have obtained two STPM (the Malaysian equivalent of A Level) passes, A Levels or the Independent Chinese Schools' Unified Exam Certificate (UEC) will also be considered for entry into undergraduate degree courses.
Students applying to postgraduate courses are expected to have a second class honours degree with a GPA of 2.5 and above.
Most courses do not require work experience with the exception of the Masters in Business Administration (MBA) where applicants must have at least two years' work experience at professional/management level.
In addition, the University will consider graduates with at least a second class honours degree from one of the 3+0 courses, and GPA of 2.5 and above.
You must also meet our standard English language requirements .
Our Regional Office in Kuala Lumpur offers guidance, support and comprehensive information on application procedures, travel arrangements, visas, accommodation and more.
This tailored in-country advice and support will help you to make the most of your time with us here at Middlesex University.
Asia Pacific Regional Hub - Malaysia office Email: admissionsea@mdxu.org Telephone: +603 5631 1588 or +603 5631 8588 (Monday - Friday, 10am - 6pm) Address: B-09-23A Empire SOHO Empire Subang Jalan SS16/1 47500 Subang Jaya Selangor Malaysia

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/mauritius:
For entry to most undergraduate courses, you must have completed your Higher Secondary School Certificate (HSC or IB), and provide certificates of your SC results, HSC results and leaving certificate.
If you don't meet our entry criteria, you may be considered for our one-year International Foundation Programme .
Students who successfully complete a foundation course at Middlesex will automatically progress onto a Middlesex degree.
Students who wish to transfer from the Middlesex University Mauritius Branch campus to our campus in London should contact the student office at the university.
We recognise qualifications from a range of awarding bodies including Aptech , ABE and Edexcel .
For the scholarships - Regional Merit Award (£1,000), Academic Achievement Award (£3,000 for undergraduate students and £2,000 for Postgraduate students and final year top-up undergrads), International Excellence scholarship (£6,000 for undergraduate students and £4,000 for postgraduate students and final year top up undergrads, contact your regional office.
Our Regional Office located in Mauritius offers a local and personalised service to students, supporting you in your application to Middlesex, and answering any questions you have about our courses, global campuses, entry requirements and much more.
Phone: +230 403 6400 / +230 403 6405 Address: Middlesex University Mauritius Coastal Road Uniciti Flic-en-Flac Mauritius
Our representatives in Mauritius can provide local support and advise you through the application process.
PTC Campus Abroad OVEC

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/mexico:
Please contact the Americas and Caribbean Regional Team for more details.
You will need a Licenciado/Professional title granted after four or more years of study with a Promedio of 8 will meet the general admission requirements for entrance into most postgraduate courses at Middlesex University.
Middlesex University offers recipients of the FIDERH loan a 20% discount of the tuition fee of any on-campus, full-time master's degree.
More information: https://www.fiderh.org.mx/
Our dedicated Regional Team provides tailored support to students from Mexico.
The team can advise on course applications, scholarships, visa applications, moving to London and much more.
Our trusted partners in Mexico can also advise you on applying to Middlesex and support you through the application process.
loveUK Tel: +52 55 33 21 60 Email: info@loveuk.com.mx Skype: loveuk.mexico Address: Veracruz 69 – 201 Col Condesa Mexico City 06140 Mexico Website: loveUK Across the Pond (Mexico) Tel: +52-55-4141-8913 Email: lateam@studyacrossthepond.com Skype: acrossthepondmexico Website: Across the Pond (Mexico)
Study Planet
Address: Av.
Los Insurgentes Sur 1458, Ciudad de Mexico, Mexico Email: mexico@studiesplanet.com Telephone: +52 55 3562 7881

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/moldova:
For most undergraduate courses, Students must have completed the Moldovan high school leaving certificate (Diploma de Bacalaureat) with an overall minimum grade of 7.0 - 8.5, depending on the course applied for.
Students may be eligible for advanced entry to year two or three if they have successfully passed a minimum of one year's higher studies in a relevant subject area and gained 60 ECTS for entry to year two, or 120 ECTS for entry to year three.
Acceptance is based on a curriculum match between the Moldovan syllabus and the syllabus at Middlesex.
For most postgraduate courses, students must have completed the Moldovan university graduation certificate (Diploma de Licenta) with an overall minimum grade 6.5 - 7.5, depending on the course applied for.
Our MBA courses require at least two years of post-graduation work experience at management level; in some cases a GMAT score of over 550 will also be required.
N/A
Our Europe Regional Team offers a personalised service to students from Moldova, supporting you in your application to Middlesex, and answering any questions you have about our courses, entry requirements, student life and more.
Our representative in Moldova can provide local support to students and advise them through the application process.
Excel Email: info@excel.md Phone: +373 22 224 059

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/morocco:
For entry for most undergraduate courses you must have completed a Brevet de Technicien Supérieu or Diplôme de Technicien Spécialisé with an overall minimum grade of 12-13, depending on the programme you apply for.
Diplôme d'Ingénieur d'État, Licence / Licence d'Études Fondamentales / Licence Professionnelle, Diplôme d'Écoles Nationales de Commerce et de Gestion - Grade 12-14/20.
Our local representative in Morocco Our representative in Morocco can provide local support and advise you through the application process.
Gen-Z-Education Contact: Anas Benbouya Email: Anas.benbouya@gen-z-education.ma Tel: 00212 661 922 271 Address: Secteur 11, Blok B Rue Assaj Villa n° 6 Hay Riad Rabat Morocco Atava Education & Training Website: Atava Email: info@atava.co.uk Tel: +44 (0)20 3651 3265 Address: Kemp House 152-160 City Road London EC1V 2NX
Study Care Morocco Website: www.studycare.ma Email: info@studycare.ma Tel:  +212624101013 Address: Casablanca, Spaces Anfa Place West Entrance Tower, Level 1 Anfa Place, Corniche Boulevard, Ain Diab

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/myanmar:
Entry to foundation For entry to International Foundation Program, you must have completed a Basic Education High School Matriculation = 11 years.
Minimum of 50% achieved overall, including relevant subjects.
As part of the application process, you will need to provide a letter of reference from an academic source, a personal statemen and attend and pass Credibility Interview.
For entry to most undergraduate courses, you must have completed Associate degree / Diploma with an overall minimum grade of 40% - 50%, depending on the programme you apply for.
For advanced entry, you must have completed Diploma/Advanced Diploma/Higher Diploma with strong grades qualification from Pearson (EdExcel), ABE, NCC, other internationally recognised qualifications.
For most postgraduate courses you must hold Master Degree from local institution Myanmar with minimum grade 4/5 GPA 65% , depending on the programme you apply for.
Relevant UK or Australia degree certificate min GPA 2.5/4.0Some courses will have prerequisites, such as prior study in a specific subject, work-experience or the submission of a portfolio.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/nepal:
Due to these constraints, we are currently not accepting applicants from Nepal to our Pre-Sessional and International Foundation courses until further notice.
Applicants should have achieved a First Division (with a minimum 60% to be considered for Year 1 of an undergraduate programme, some courses may require a higher percentage pass mark) in Class XII or at least three credit passes at A Level.
Applicants should have achieved a minimum of Masters degree at 65% (following a three year Bachelor degree) equivalent to a Second class lower (2.2).
Our regional team located in New Delhi has years of experience in supporting students from Nepal apply to Middlesex University.
The friendly team can help answer any questions you have about studying in London; from entry requirements and accommodation to the application process.
Email: delhi@mdx.ac.uk Tel: +91 11 4606 6014 or +91 11 4606 6015 Address: M58, First Floor M Block Market Greater Kailash Part II New Delhi-110 048 India

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/netherlands:
For most undergraduate courses, you must have completed the VWO with a minimum grade of 7 – 8, depending on the course you are applying for.
For admission to most postgraduate courses, you must have completed a bachelors degree with a minimum grade of 7-8, depending on the course you are applying for.
We accept the VWO with a minimum grade of 7 (UG) and 8 (PG) in English as evidence of your English language ability for most undergraduate courses.
Our European Regional Team offers a personalised service to students from The Netherlands, supporting you in your application to Middlesex, and answering any questions you have about our courses, entry requirements, student life and more.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/new-zealand:
For entry to most undergraduate courses, you must have completed University Entrance or NCEA Level 3 with grade "Passed, Achieved".
For entry to International Foundation Program, you must have completed LEVEL 2 NCEA:
LEVEL 3 NCEA:
For advanced entry, If you have achieved a qualification such as a foundation degree or HND, or have gained credit at another university, you may be able to enter a Middlesex University course in year two or three.
For most postgraduate courses you must hold:
You will need to provide two letters of reference from academic sources and a personal statement

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/nigeria:
Due to these constraints we are currently not accepting applicants from Nigeria to our Pre-Sessional and International Foundation courses until further notice.
For entry to most undergraduate courses, you must have completed the WAEC plus a recognised university foundation year.
You will need to provide originals of your WAEC and foundation results.
If you have only completed WAEC you may be considered for our one-year International Foundation Programme.
For most postgraduate courses, you must have completed a good Bachelor degree, equivalent to a British second class honours degree from a recognised university.
Scholarships such as Regional Merit Award (£1,000), Academic Achievement Award (£3,000 for undergraduate students and £2,000 for Postgraduate students and final year top-up undergrads), Petroleum Technology Development Fund, Tertiary Education Trust Fund, Federal Capital Territory Scholarship board, Nigerian Universities Commission, National Information Technology Development Agency, Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation, Nigeria LNG, Chevening Scholarships and Commonwealth Scholarship - contact your regional office.
Email: nigeria@mdx.ac.uk Tel: +234 8062372058, +234 8126669299, +234 8126669985 Address: 1st Floor, Silverbird Galleria Plot 133 Ahmadu Bello Way, Victoria Island Lagos
Email: nigeria@mdx.ac.uk Tel: +234 81 6007 1824 or +234 81 8624 5694 Address: The Octagon 5 Kokoma Close off Buchanan Crescent Wuse 2 Abuja Nigeria
Local Representative Address: E U Foreign Education Solution LTD Suite 31 West Pavilion Tafawa Balewa Square Onikan Lagos Email: eddie.uloh@yahoo.com Tel: +234 8023145124 or +234 8055349536.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/norway:
For most entry to most undergraduate courses, you must have completed the Vitnemål fra den Videregående Skole with a minimum score of 3.0 - 3.5, depending on the course you are applying for.
For most postgraduate courses, you must have completed a good Bachelor Degree with grade C-B, depending on the course you are applying for.
We accept a minimum grade of 4 in English in the Vitnemål, as evidence of your English language ability for most undergraduate courses.
Our European Regional Team offers a personalised service to students from Norway, supporting you in your application to Middlesex, and answering any questions you have about our courses, entry requirements, student life and more.
Our representative in Norway can provide local support and advise you through the application process.
Across the Pond Email: info@studyacrossthepond.com Website: Across the pond

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/oman:
Students currently studying at university may apply to transfer to one of our degree courses in the UK.
Students who successfully complete the one-year International Foundation Programme (IFP) at Middlesex will automatically progress onto a Middlesex degree.
For entry onto our International Foundation Programme you will need to have graduated with a General Secondary School Certificate with good grades and have a minimum IELTS of 5.5, or equivalent recognised English language test.
For most postgraduate courses, you must have completed your bachelor degree equivalent to a British second class honours degree.
Our Middle East Regional Office located in Dubai offers a personalised service to students from Oman, supporting you in your application to Middlesex, and answering any questions you have about our courses, entry requirements, moving to London and much more.
Phone: +971 4 396 6617 Email: enquiries@mdxgulf.com Office address: Suite 307, The Business Centre Khalid Bin Waleed Road Dubai UAE Postal address: PO Box 111075, Dubai, UAE

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/pakistan:
Successful completion of minimum one year's bachelor's from a recognised university with a minimum 65%.
For the MBA, all candidates must satisfy stringent criteria, which include a minimum of two years years' work experience at middle management level after undergraduate study and demonstration of an ability to undertake the demanding course.
An Edexcel level 7 diploma may also lead to a Middlesex postgraduate degree.
We offer a £1,000 Regional Award to nationals of Pakistan.
Visit our scholarships page for a full list of all Middlesex scholarships you may be eligible for.
Our regional office can provide personalised advice on all aspects of studying at Middlesex University: from courses and student life; to the application process.
Email: middle-east@mdx.ac.uk Tel: +971 4 396 6617

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/panama:
You must have successfully completed either:
If you don't meet our entry criteria, you may be considered for our one-year International Foundation Programme or Foundation Year courses .
The entry requirement for these courses is a High School Graduation Diploma with GPA of 3.0.
For most postgraduate courses, you must have completed a good Bachelor degree from a recognised institution equivalent to a British second-class honours degree, preferably with a second class (2.8+ GPA).
APPLY HERE Students are only eligible to receive one scholarship award.
Our friendly and experienced Americas and Caribbean Regional Team offers a personalised service to students from Panama.
They will support you at every stage of your application and answer all your questions about studying in the UK.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/papua-new-guinea:
Applicants with the International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma or A-Levels will be considered for admission to our Bachelor degree courses.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/paraguay:
Students with just the Bachillerato or Bachillerato Especializado can be considered for the one-year International Foundation Programme .
Students who take the International Foundation Year at Middlesex University will automatically progress onto a Middlesex degree course upon successful completion of the course.
You may be considered for entry to undergraduate degree course if you have completed a period of study at university.
For most postgraduate courses, you must have completed a licenciado/bachelor degree from a recognised university equivalent to a UK second-class honours degree (generally at least 75% or higher).
Our dedicated Regional Team provides tailored support to students from Paraguay.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/peru:
Most courses require successful completion of a Titulo Profesional or Licenciado of at least four years with a minimum grade of 15/20, depending on the course you are applying for.
Our trusted partners in Peru can also advise you on applying to Middlesex and support you through the application process.
Email: peru@studiesplanet.com Phone: (+51) 926 877 306 Address: Av.
Pardo 434 Piso 16.
Miraflores, Lima.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/philippines:
To enter the first year of an undergraduate degree, we require a Thames Diploma or one-year's study at a college in the Philippines.
Applicants with A Levels or an International Baccalaureate will also be considered.
Year 12 school leavers are required to undertake one year of foundation studies before continuing to an undergraduate course.
You can apply to the International Foundation Programme at Middlesex, successful completion of which guarantees admission onto a degree programme.
We also recognise a range of foundation courses awarded by other bodies, e.g.
the Canadian International Matriculation Programme (CIMP) and the South Australian Matriculation (SAM).
Applications to the second or third year of an undergraduate degree will be considered on an individual basis.
For our masters courses we require a BA degree from a First Grade College with a GPA of 2.5 or above.
We may also consider students with a BA degree from a Second Grade College with above-average grades or work experience, or a GPA of 2.5 or above.
If you're applying for a research degree, you need to have a masters degree from a recognised institution.
Visit our scholarships page scholarships that international students may be eligible for.
Our regional office in Malaysia has years of experience supporting students from the Philippines throughout the application process.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/poland:
For entry to most undergraduate courses, you must have completed the Swiadectwo Dojrzalosci / Matura, with an overall score of 60% and above from Matura.
We accept the New Matura as evidence of your English language ability with minimum grades of Oral - 65% and Written - 75% (basic) or 60% (extended) required for most undergraduate courses.
https://app.geckoform.com/public/#/modern/21FO00g4rozmi800bwt5wrejxb
Our Europe Regional Team offers a personalised service to students from Poland, answering any questions you have about our courses, entry requirements, student life and more.
Our official representative for applicants from Poland is Dr Marta Wlodarczyk of Episteme Educational Placement Services.
Dr Marta Wlodarczyk can answer any questions you have about studying at Middlesex University and support you throughout the application process.
Episteme bezpłatnie organizuje studia na Middlesex University London, pomaga w staraniach o pożyczkę na czesne oraz wszystkich innych kwestiach związanych ze studiami na Middlesex.
Episteme Edukacyjny Serwis Rekrutacyjny Contact: Dr Marta Włodarczyk Tel/fax: +48 12 6590 536  (Kraków, Poland) Tel/fax: 0044 20 8870 3030 (London, England) E-mail: info@intservice.org

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/portugal:
For most entry to most undergraduate courses, you must have completed the Certificado de fim de Estudos Secundários (previously Certidão do Décimo Segundo Ano) with a minimum grade of 13 - 15, depending on the course you are applying for.
For most postgraduate courses, you must have completed Diploma de Estudos Superiores Especializados.
We require a minimum grade of DESE 14/20 for most subjects, and a minimum grade of DESE 16/20 for some specialist subjects.
Besides IELTS and other English requirements we now accept a minimum grade 16 or above in English at Certificado de fim de Estudos Secundários.
There are some exceptions to this for the following courses which require a minimum grade 18 at Certificado de fim de Estudos Secundários:
Our Europe Regional Team offers a personalised service to students from Portugal, supporting you in your application to Middlesex, and answering any questions you have about our courses, entry requirements, student life and more.
Our representative in Portugal can provide local support and advise you through the application process.
Email: info@okestudante.pt
Rua Alexandre Herculano, n°2 – 1ºDto 1150-006 Lisboa t.
+351 218 289 204
Email: support@ucademics.com
Lisbon Office: Avenida de Berna, 11, 3º Andar 1050-030 Lisboa t.
+351 211 319 469

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/qatar:
Our Middle East Regional Office located in Dubai offers a personalised service to students from Qatar, supporting you in your application to Middlesex, and answering any questions you have about our courses, entry requirements, moving to London and much more.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/romania:
For most entry to most undergraduate courses, you must have completed the Diploma de Bacalaureat with a minimum grade point average of 7.0 - 7.5, depending on the specific course you are applying for.
As part of the application process you will need to provide a letter of reference from academic sources and a personal statement.
We accept the Baccalaureat in English with a final average of 8/10 as evidence of your English language ability for most undergraduate courses.
1 Please note that EU/EEA citizens with pre-settled or settled status are not eligible for the award.
Our Europe Regional Team offers a personalised service to students from Romania, supporting you in your application to Middlesex, and answering any questions you have about our courses, entry requirements, student life and more.
Our representatives in Romania can provide local support and advise you through the application process.
Website: www.education-abroad.ro Phone: 0751.010.482 Email: saac.romania@gmail.com Address: Str Caimatei Nr 20 Etaj 2 Sector 2, Bucharest
Website: www.worlduniversities.ro Contact: Ana Maria Papp Phone: +40213110572 Email: anamaria@integraledu.ro
Office Addresses: Bucharest: Bd.
General Gh.
Magheru Nr.
41, Et.1, Ap.1, Sector 1 Timisoara: Str.
Eugeniu de Savoya, nr.
13, Et.1 Iasi: Str.
Sfântul Lazăr, nr.
27, ET.1 Galati: Str.
Brăilei, 171A, Et.
2 Craiova: Str.
Stirbei Voda, nr.
7A, Et.
2 Constanta: Bd.
Alexandru Lapusneanu nr.
107, bl.
LV40, Sc.
A
Website: www.edmundo.ro Phone: 0318142920 Email: edmundo@educativa.ro
Office Addresses: Bucharest: Str Coltei, Nr.
8, et.
2, Sector 3, cod postal 030246 Timisoara: Piata Victoriei, Nr.
1, Et.
1, Ap.
9, Timisoara, Cod Postal 300030 Iasi: Strada Pacurari nr.
110 et.
3, Cod Poștal 700514, Iasi

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/russia:
If you have only completed high school you may be considered for our one-year International Foundation Programme.
If you are an Aptech graduate, see our information page or contact our regional team to see if you can enter year two or three of a Middlesex degree.
For most postgraduate courses, you must have completed a good Bachelor degree, Specialist Diploma with minimum grade 4-5 equivalent to a British second-class Honours Degree.
We offer a Regional Academic Award of £1000 - £7000 to individuals who have demonstrated academic excellence in their final grades.
Applications for the scholarship are open until 31 August for European citizens and residents 1 .
Applicants will need to hold a Middlesex University offer.
Students finishing their first/second year with at least 2:2, will be considered for a continuation scholarship.
Final qualifications will be required to apply for this scholarship.
To be considered for the scholarship, apply via the link below, and please email EU-enquiries@mdx.ac.uk a 500 word statement explaining why you think you should be awarded the scholarship.
You can include information about your personality, values, how you contribute to society, and anything else you think is relevant.
UKVI Requirements
Our Europe Regional Team offers a personalised service to students from Russia, supporting you in your application to Middlesex, and answering any questions you have about our courses, entry requirements, student life and more.
Our representative in Russia can provide local support and advise you through the application process.
Academconsult Tel: +7 812 333 3200 Email: Irina.sledyeva@academconsult.ru Contact: Irina Sledyeva Address: 47-49 Marata st.
office C405, St Petersburg, 191002, Russia
Direct Talk - The Bureau for International Education Programs Tel: +7 (495) 995 95 14 E-mail: info@directtalk.ru or directtalk.uk@gmail.com Address: 11A Seleznevskata St., Building 2, Office 511, Moscow 127473 Russia

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/saudi-arabia:
If you have an IELTS score that is less than the above-mentioned requirements, you may apply for our Pre-sessional English course to improve your English language level before starting the course.
Phone: +971 4 396 6617 Email: middle-east@mdx.ac.uk Office address: Suite 307, The Business Centre Khalid Bin Waleed Road Dubai UAE
Postal address: PO Box 111075, Dubai, UAE

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/serbia:
You must have completed Diploma o stecenom srednjem obrazovanju (Diploma of Completed Secondary Education) with overall grade of 4.
For most postgraduate courses, you must have completed Diplomirani (Bachelor degree) 8/10 or 7/10.
Our European regional team offers a personalised service to students from Serbia, supporting you in your application to Middlesex, and answering any questions you have about our courses, entry requirements, student life and more.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/singapore:
To join year one, you will need two Singapore/Cambridge Advanced Level Certificate of Education (GCE A Level).
Students with diplomas, advanced diplomas and other vocational qualifications may be able to transfer credits and join in years two or three.
We normally require a bachelors degree from a recognised university equivalent to a UK second-class honours degree or above, or a CGPA of 2.5 or above.
Our regional office in Malaysia has years of experience advising students from Singapore and supporting them through the application process.
Email: admissionsea@mdxu.org Telephone: +603 5631 1588 or +603 5631 8588 (Monday - Friday, 10am - 6pm) Address: B-09-23A Empire SOHO Empire Subang Jalan SS 16/1 Subang Jaya 47500 Selangor Malaysia

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/slovakia:
For most entry to most undergraduate courses, you must have completed either Maturitná skúška / Maturita or a Vysvedcenie o Maturitnej Skúške (School Leaving Certificate with Maturita from a SOU or SOŠ) with an overall grade of at least 2.75 - 2.0, depending on the course you have applied for.
Each candidate's qualification will be judged on its individual merit.
For most postgraduate courses, you must have completed a good Bakalár (Bachelor degree) post 2004 with minimum 2.5-2.0 overall.
Our Europe Regional Team offers a personalised service to students from Slovakia, supporting you in your application to Middlesex, and answering any questions you have about our courses, entry requirements, student life and more.
Our representative in Slovakia can provide local support and advise you through the application process.
Address: Grösslingova 45, 811 09 Bratislava, Slovakia Hviezdoslavova 7, 040 01  Kosice, Slovakia Tel.: +421 2 5262 2611, +421 902 991 102 Contact: Simona Janecekova
Email: info@interstudy.sk Website: www.interstudy.sk
UNILINK - Poradenské Centrum Pre Vysokoškolské Štúdium V Zahraniĉí Study Abroad Advising Centre Tel: +421 903 696 676 Email: info@unilink.sk Contact: Lubica Hughes Address: Karpatská 6, 811 05 Bratislava
Website: www.unilink.sk

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/south-africa:
We usually require A Levels or the International Baccalaureate Diplomas for direct entry onto an undergraduate course.
For students without have these qualifications, there is a range of access, foundation or vocational courses for further higher education.
We will also consider AVCE (GNVQ), A/AS level, BTEC National, Access and equivalent overseas qualifications.
For most postgraduate courses, you must have completed a good Bachelor degree, equivalent to a British second class honours degree from a recognised institution.
For scholarships Regional Merit Award (£1,000), Academic Achievement Award (£3,000 for undergraduate students and £2,000 for Postgraduate students and final year top-up undergrads), International Excellence scholarship (£6,000 for undergraduate students and £4,000 for postgraduate students and final year top up undergrads) contact your regional office.
Our office in Kenya offers a personalised service to South African students, supporting you in your application to Middlesex, and answering any questions you have about our courses, entry requirements, moving to London and much more.
Email: A.kisala@mdx.ac.uk Tel: +254 20 2153497 Fax: +254 710 450118/+254 736 080133 Office address: 2nd Floor, Westlands Square, Above Java / Tuskys, Westlands, Nairobi, Kenya Post address: P.O.
Box 48109-00100, Nairobi, Kenya

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/south-korea:
Students who have completed year one of University in Korea, may be able to enter on to year one of an undergraduate degree at Middlesex.
Students must have completed a Bachelor Degree with GPA 3 / 4.5 from a recognised university in Korea.
They have years of experience supporting students from Korea and will also be able to suggest the most appropriate course of study for you, depending on your experience and academic ability.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/spain:
For most entry to most undergraduate courses, you must have completed either the Título de Bachillerato with a minimum average grade 6.0 - 7.0, depending on the programme you are applying for.
For most postgraduate courses, you must have completed a good bachelor degree (titulo de licenciado/grado) with an overall grade of 6-7, depending on the course you apply for.
Our European Regional Team offers a personalised service to students from Switzerland, supporting you in your application to Middlesex, and answering any questions you have about our courses, entry requirements, student life and more.
Our representative in Spain can provide local support to students and advise them through the application process.
Email: estudiantes@klensein.com
Utopicus Gran Vía, 4 28013 Madrid
Portal A - 4 Planta H 41018 Sevilla

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/sri-lanka:
Due to these constraints we are currently not accepting applicants from Sri Lanka to our Pre-Sessional and International Foundation courses until further notice.
We require at least 3C grade in A Levels.
Applications for Year three can be considered for those who have a Merit in EDEXEL HND in Computing.
We require a good degree from a recognised university or equivalent with minimum 55%.
Our network of regional offices across India have years of experience supporting students throughout the application process.
Tel: (91-11) 4606 6014 and 4606 6015 Email: delhi@mdx.ac.uk Address: M58, First Floor M Block Market Greater Kailash Part II New Delhi-110 048
Tel: (91-44) 2836 2965 and 2836 2975 Email: chennai@mdx.ac.uk Address: No.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/sweden:
For entry to most undergraduate courses, you must have completed Avgångsbetyg / Slutbetyg från Gymnasium with a minimum grade of G or 12.5 or D or VG or 15 or C, depending on the course you apply for.
If you have successfully completed the Högskoleexamen you may be able to enter into the third year of a related undergraduate degree course.
For most postgraduate courses, you must have completed a bachelors degree from a recognised university with an overall grade G-VG, depending on the course you apply for.
We accept the Slutbetyg från Gymnasium/Avgångsbetyg with VG in English.
Our European Regional Team offers a personalised service to students from Sweden, supporting you in your application to Middlesex, and answering any questions you have about our courses, entry requirements, student life and more.
Our representative in Sweden can provide local support and advise you through the application process.
STUDIN - Study International Email: info@studin.se Website: STUDIN Phone: +46 31 13 80 85 Address: Storgatan 25 411 24 Göteborg Sweden

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/switzerland:
For entry to most undergraduate courses, you must have completed Maturita exam with an overall minimum grade of 4 out of 6, depending on the programme you apply for.
For most postgraduate courses you must hold a good first degree, or four years of higher study in an academic institution, as part of a five-year master's degree course.
Ideally you will need a Licence, Diplôme d'État, Diplôme, Staatsdiplom, Lizentiat, Diplom, Diploma di Stato, Licenza, Diploma – minimum 4-5/6, 6-8/10, 2-3/5 (grading system depends on county).
If you are a Swiss/EEA national, you may be eligible to pay UK home fees if you meet the necessary requirements and send evidence of the required categories.
Please note that all international and Non UK/EU students are assessed as overseas payers.
Any applications and eligibility to pay home fees are subject to review by our admissions team.
To be considered as a Home fee payer you will need to meet the following criteria specified by the UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA)
In order to qualify for 'home' fees under this category , you must meet all of the following criteria:
On the first day of an academic year of your course you must be:
and
In order to qualify for 'home' fees under this category, you must meet all of the following criteria:
Note: If you become the child of a Swiss national part-way through your course, you might become entitled to pay 'home' fees - you can seek advice on this from an adviser at your institution, your Students' Union or telephone our  UKCISA students' advice line.
For more information on the required categories please visit the UKCISA website

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/taiwan:
Students who have completed year one of University in Taiwan, may be able to enter on to year one of an undergraduate degree at Middlesex.
Students must have completed a Bachelor Degree with minimum of 65% or GPA 2.5/4 from a recognised university in Taiwan.
Asia Pacific Regional Hub
Our Asia Pacific Regional Hub Team have years of experience supporting students from Thailand through the application process.
The team can advise on all aspects of studying at Middlesex University - from courses and the application process; to accommodation, student life and more.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/tanzania:
For entry to most undergraduate courses you must have completed the minimum NECTA or A-levels exams with a minimum grade of Division 3, or ACSE with grade C/3.
We will also consider applicants who have completed various stages of their studies from other institutions and awarding bodies including ACCA, Aptech, Association of Computer Professionals (ACP), Association of Business Executives (ABE), BTEC, CIM, IMIS, Informatics, National Institute of Information Technology (NIIT), NCC and other pre-university foundation courses.
If you don't meet the minimum requirements you may be considered for our one-year International Foundation Programme .
Our East Africa office based in Kenya offers a personalised service to Tanzanian students.
Email: A.kisala@mdx.ac.uk Tel: +254 20 2153497 Fax: +254 710 450118/+254 736 080133 Office address: Nakumatt Ukay 2nd Floor Westlands Nairobi Kenya Post address: P.O.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/thailand:
Students with a Mathayom 6 are required to undertake a one-year foundation course before progressing onto an undergraduate course.
You can apply to our International Foundation Programme, successful completion of which guarantees a student admission onto a degree course.
We also recognises a range of foundation courses awarded by other bodies, including the Canadian International Matriculation Programme (CIMP) and the South Australian Matriculation (SAM).
We will consider students with A Levels or the International Baccalaureate for entry to the first year of undergraduate course.
Students must also meet our standard English language requirements.
We normally require a good first bachelors degree from a recognised university.
Most courses do not require work experience, with the exception of the Masters in Business Administration (MBA), which requires at least two years' work experience at professional/management level.
CGPAs of 2.5 and above may also be considered by the University.
Students must also meet our standard English language requirements .
Our Learner Development Unit runs free workshops and one-to-one tutorials in academic writing, English language, and communication so you can continue to improve your English skills while you study with us.
Telephone: +603 5631 1588 or +603 5631 8588 (Monday - Friday, 10am - 6pm) Email: admissionsea@mdxu.org B-09-23A Empire SOHO, Empire Subang Jalan SS 16/1 ,Subang Jaya 47500 Selangor, Malaysia

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/trinidad-and-tobago:
We require one of the following:
We normally require an honours degree or overseas equivalent.
Most courses require a lower-second classification or overseas equivalent.
However, the exact entry requirements vary by course.
Please see our course pages or contact the Americas and Caribbean Regional Team .

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/turkey:
For most undergraduate courses, you must have completed either:
If you have only completed Devlet Lise Diplomasi you may be considered for our one-year International Foundation Programme .
For most postgraduate courses, you must have completed a good bachelor's degree, equivalent to a British second class honours degree.
To be considered for the scholarship, apply via the application form , and upload a 500 word statement explaining why you think you should be awarded the scholarship.
Our European Regional Team offers a personalised service to students from Turkey, supporting you in your application to Middlesex, and answering any questions you have about our courses, entry requirements, student life and more.
Our representatives in Turkey can provide local support to students and advise them through the application process.
Tel: +90 216 301 13 23 (Istanbul) or +90 232 425 25 56 (Izmir)
Istanbul office: Bağdat Cad.
Çatalçeşme Oramiral Celal Eyicioğlu Sok.
No.5 Urcun Palas B Blok K.2 D.5 Kadıköy / İstanbul
Izmir office:  Aksoy Plaza Kıbrıs Şehitleri Cad.
No.152 Daire B-02 Alsancak / Konak İzmir TURKEY
Email BEBC Istanbul office, Ankara office or Izmir office Tel: +90 212 2444 000 (Istanbul),+90 312 258 63 23 (Ankara) or +90 232 323 10 10 (Izmir) Email: turkeyist@britisheducation.com.tr Istanbul office: İstiklal Caddesi Kallavi Sokak No:1 Leon Apartmanı Kat 3-4 Beyoğlu /İstanbul 34430 Ankara office: Ufuk Üniversitesi Caddesi, The Paragon, No:3 Kat:23 Çukurambar /Ankara Izmir office: Manas Bulvari.
Adalet Mah.
Folkart Towers.
B Kule Kat:34 D:3408 , Bayrakli / Izmir
Email ATEC Istanbul office or Ankara office Tel: +90 216 550 1213 (Istanbul) or +90 312 4262683 (Ankara) Istanbul office: Caferaga Mah., Sakiz Gulu Sok, Beyaz Saray Apt.
No.30B K.5/10, 34710 Kadikoy, Istanbul Ankara office: Tunali Hilmi Cad, Gumussoy Is Hani No.79 K.3/11, Kavaklidere, 06700 Gaziosmanpasa, Ankara
Tel: +90 212 995 07 08/ M: +90 543 529 32 91 (Istanbul); 444 3 660 - 0 (232) 905 54 51 (Izmir);  444 3 660 - 0 (850) 265 02 67 (Denizili) Email: istanbul@studyin-uk.com Istanbul office: Cemal Sahir Sok.
No: 26-28 Profilo Plaza A Blok K:1 Mecidiyekoy 34394 Şişli / Istanbul Ankara office: Kızılırmak Mahallesi Ufuk Üniversitesi Caddesi Next Level Loft Office 4 / 72 - 76 A Floor:27 Söğütözü/ Ankara Izmir office: Folkart Towers A tower Adalet Mh.
Find Manas.
No:47/B Floor: 35 Flat: 3509 Bayraklı
Denizli office: Camlaralti Mah.
6014 St.
No:6 D:2 Kınıklı / Denizli
Address : Alsancak, Kultur Mah.
Dr.
Mustafa Enver Bey Cad.
Ayse Apt, No:16 Kat:1 Daire:2 Konak Telephone number : +90 232 422 05 56 E-mail: izmir@edukas.com.tr
Address : Lotus Nisantasi, Workinton, Halaskargazi Cd.
No:38-66 SisliİSTANBUL Telephone number : +90 212 401 41 90 E-mail : istanbul@edukas.com.tr
Address: Suadiye Mahallesi Bagdat Caddesi No:359 Kat:3 Daire:7 Kadıkoy Telephone number : +90 216 408 22 20 E-mail : istanbul@edukas.com.tr
Address : Remzi Oguz Arık Mah.
Bestekar Sokak Üniversite Apt.
No:61 Kat:2 Daire:3 Orta Blok Cankaya Telephone number : +90 312 465 04 64 E-mail : ankara@edukas.com.tr
Academix Study Abroad Services
Istanbul - Taksim Office
Address: Harbiye Mah.
Cumhuriyet Cad.
Pak Apt.
No:30 D:4 34367 Sisli / Istanbul
Phone: +90 212 249 94 89
Email: taksim@academix.com.tr
Web: www.academix.com.tr
Istanbul - Besiktas Office
Address: Yildiz Mahallesi Ciragan Caddesi No:15 Kat:1 34349 Besiktas / Istanbul
Phone:  +90 212 259 00 99
Email: besiktas@academix.com.tr
Istanbul - Kadikoy Office
Address: Osmanaga Mah.
Sogutlucesme Cad.
No:71/3 34714 Kadikoy / Istanbul
Phone:  +90 216 345 06 05
Email: kadikoy@academix.com.tr
Istanbul - Bagdat Caddesi Office
Address: Bostanci Mh.
Turab Sk.
Omer Ugur Ata Apt.
No:6 K:4 D:4 34744 Kadikoy / Istanbul
Phone:  +90 216 232 40 15
Email: cadde@academix.com.tr
Istanbul - Atasehir Office
Address: Ataturk Mh.
Atasehir Bulvari Ata Plaza 3/3 K:4 D:41 34758 Atasehir / Istanbul
Phone: +90 216 580 81 81
Email: atasehir@academix.com.tr
Istanbul - Maslak Office
Address: Beybi Giz Plaza, Meydan Sokak No:1 Kat:26 34396 Maslak / Istanbul
Phone: +90 507 564 45 26
Email: maslak@academix.com.tr
Istanbul - Bakirkoy Office
Address: Zeytinlik Mh.
Ray Sok.
Efem Apt.
No:41/3 34140 Bakirkoy / Istanbul
Phone: +90 212 660 70 14
Email: bakirkoy@academix.com.tr
Ankara Office
Address: Bestekar Sok.
No:61 B Blok D:5 06680 Cankaya / Ankara
Phone:  +90 312 465 08 01
Email: ankara@academix.com.tr
Izmir Office
Address: Alsancak Mah.
Kibris Sehitleri Caddesi No:152 Aksoy Plaza Daire:107 35220 Alsancak / Izmir
Phone: +90 232 464 60 70
Email: izmir@academix.com.tr
Izmit (Kocaeli) Office
Address: Korfez Mah.
Berk Sok.
No:10 Baris Is Merkezi Kat:5 D:57 41040 Izmit / Kocaeli
Phone: +90 262 502 03 54
Email: kocaeli@academix.com.tr
Corlu (Tekirdag) Office
Address: Gold Business Center Kemalettin Mh.
Salih Omurtak Cad.
No:152/2 Ofis No:51 59850 Corlu / Tekirdag
Phone: +90 282 652 12 00
Email: corlu@academix.com.tr
Bursa Office
Address: Cumhuriyet Mah.
Fatih Sultan Mehmet Bulvarı Mersa Sitesi B Blok K:2 D:4 16130 Nilufer / Bursa
Phone: +90 (544) 153 34 30
Email: bursa@academix.com.tr
Antalya Office
Address: Fener Mah.
Tekelioglu Cad.
Astur Manolya Sitesi No:94 D Blok A16 Kat:2 Daire:3 07160 Muratpasa / Antalya
Phone: +90 212 249 86 11
Email: antalya@academix.com.tr
Adana Office
Address: Turgut Ozal Bulvari Toros Mah.
78178 Sok.
No: 6 Yener Apt.
Asma Kat 01170 Cukurova/Adana
Phone: +90 322 247 02 99
Email: adana@academix.com.tr
Kayseri Office
Address: Yildirim Beyazit Mah.
Kilic Sok.
No: 16/B Org.
Hulusi Akar Bul.
Uzeri 38140 Melikgazi / Kayseri
Phone: +90 352 333 23 32
Email: kayseri@academix.com.tr
Gaziantep Office
Address: Ibrahimli Mah.
Naci Topcuoglu Blv.
No: 18-B 27560 Sehitkamil / Gaziantep
Phone: +90 342 215 4588
Email: gaziantep@academix.com.tr
Manisa Office
Address: Muradiye Mh.
Manolya Sk.
Rainbow Life Avm B Blok No:228/2 4.
Kat D:39 45140 Yunusemre / Manisa
Phone: +90 236 503 14 51
Email: manisa@academix.com.tr
Bodrum (Mugla) Office
Address: Midtown Alisveris Merkezi-Cosmo Office Musgebi Mah, Kongre Sk.
No:11, 48420 Ortakent/Bodrum/Mugla
Phone: +90 552 691 22 31
Email: bodrum@academix.com.tr

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/uganda:
Uganda Advanced Certificate of Education (UACE) OR Cambridge Overseas Higher School Certificate (COHSC) with C grade
Bachelor degree - Upper Second Class Honours
Tel: +254 20 2153497 Mobile: +254 710450118 or +254 736 080133 Email: A.kisala@mdx.ac.uk Address: 2nd Floor Westlands Squar Above Java / Tuskys Westlands Nairobi Kenya

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/ukraine:
For entry to most undergraduate courses, you must have completed one year of a Dyplom Bakalavr (Bachelor Degree) or Specialist Diploma depending on the programme you apply for.
If you have only completed a Ukrainian high school diploma you may be considered for our one-year International Foundation Programme .
If you have successfully passed at least one year's higher studies in a relevant subject area you may be able to enter directly onto the second or third year of one of our undergraduate degrees as a transfer student.
For most postgraduate courses you must hold Диплом бакалавра (Bachelor degree) after 2007, Диплом спеціаліста (Specialist Diploma) - 3 or 4 out of 5.
If you don't meet one of our other accepted tests, we offer a Pre-sessional English course .
PLEASE NOTE that we are offering FREE pre-sessional courses to students from Ukraine.
The UK Government is supporting Ukrainian students by offering full Student Finance funding (loans for fees and livings costs) to students from Ukraine who are studying eligible courses in England or Wales in 2022/23.
An overview of the funding available can be found at the following links:
Undergraduate: New Full Time Students
Masters: Postgraduate Masters Funding
PhD: PHD loan
This support is available to those who are granted permission to stay in the UK under one of the three schemes for Ukrainians.
This is for students who are already on a Higher Education course, and for students who will be new in 2022/23.
There are strict eligibility requirements: To have been granted permission to enter or remain in the UK under one of the three schemes for Ukrainians by 1 September 2022; and
To have been ordinarily resident in the UK and Islands since being granted that permission; and To be/have been ordinarily resident in the UK on the first day of the first academic year of the course (this means 1 September if you start a course in September, rather than the actual first day of the course).
For further information on eligibly please see the details from UKCISA below:
On the first day of the academic year you are paying fees for, you must be a person with any one of these five types of leave:
(b) you must have been ordinarily resident in the UK and Islands since you were granted such leave; and
(c) you must be ordinarily resident in the UK on the first day of the first academic year of the course.
Find some helpful government guidance here .
The scholarship is available to excellent applicants from the EU/EEA 3 .
3 Please note that EU/EEA citizens with pre-settled or settled status are not eligible for the award.
Find information on how to apply for a Ukraine Family Scheme visa here .
Our European regional team offers a personalised service to students from Ukraine, supporting you in your application to Middlesex, and answering any questions you have about our courses, entry requirements, student life and more.
DEC education
Email: partners@dec.ua Phone: +38 044 390 76 24 Address: Profesora Pidvysotskoho str.16 01014 Kyiv, Ukraine Website: DEC Education

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/united-arab-emirates:
Students who wish to transfer from the Middlesex University Dubai campus to our campus in London should contact the student office at the university.
We recognise qualifications from a range of awarding bodies including Aptech, ABE and Edexcel.
For most postgraduate courses, you must have completed a good 4 year Bachelor degree from a recognised university with GPA 2.4/4
We accept grade C or above in O Level or GCSE English Language, as evidence of your English language ability for most undergraduate courses.
Our regional office based in Dubai was first established in 2003.
Our team has years of experience providing students with local, friendly advice on all aspects of studying at and applying to Middlesex University.
Regional Office - Dubai
Email: enquiries@mdxgulf.com
Tel: +971 4 396 6617 Fax: +971 4 396 4449
Office address: Suite 307 The Business Centre Khalid Bin Waleed Road Dubai UAE

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/united-kingdom-international-students:
You can find the standard entry requirements for each course on the course information page .
We welcome international students with a wide range of equivalent qualifications from around the world.
We also recognise international foundation courses from a number of institutions within the UK, including INTO , Bell and many more.
If you have previously studied in another country, you may check the relevant country support page to see the commonly accepted qualifications from that country.
If you don't meet the entry requirements for our undergraduate degrees you may be able to apply for our one-year International Foundation Programme (IFP) or our foundation year courses to help you gain entry to one of our undergraduate degrees.
If you have achieved a Foundation Degree, CertHE,DipHE, HNC, HND or a number of modules of an undergraduate degree course at another university, you may be able to enter directly into the second or third year of one of our undergraduate degree courses as a transfer student.
We have agreements that recognise qualifications from a range of awarding bodies including Aptech , ABE , Edexcel and many more.
You can find the standard entry requirements for each course on the course information page.
To make the most of your time at Middlesex, you will need an excellent command of the English language.
If you are not a national of a majority English-speaking country and haven't completed a degree in English, you will need to provide evidence of your English language ability to study with us.
Read more about our English language requirements for undergraduate and postgraduate courses.
Undergraduate students from the EU may be eligible to apply to Student Finance England (SFE) for a student loan to cover the cost of their fees, and may also be eligible for a loan to cover living costs.
Our friendly admissions enquiries team is happy to answer all of your questions about Middlesex and can support you throughout the admissions process.
Phone: +44 (0) 20 8411 5440
Discover what studying at Middlesex is really like by visiting our campus and meeting those who learn, teach, and research here.
We often attend education fairs, institutions and agent events for international students around the UK.
These are a chance for you to chat to our staff and ask any questions you have about studying at Middlesex, entry requirements, the application process and more.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/usa:
GPA Requirement 3.2+ Test optional / not required, unless the programme carries a specific subject requirement, which can be met with 2 AP exams in the subject area.
2.8 - 3.1 *SAT of 550 on each part, OR **ACT composite score of 23, OR 2 AP exams with 3+
2.7 or below Can be considered for a Foundation Year.
Must provide SAT of 550 on each part, OR ACT composite score of 23, OR 2 AP exams with 3+ Middlesex University's *SAT code is 3985 and **ACT code is 5277.
International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma
One year of college/university level study with a minimum GPA of 2.8
Middlesex has a long history in supporting transfer students, read the US Community College Transfer Guide 2018 for all the information you need for transferring here.
For general admission onto most postgraduate courses, applicants need to have completed a bachelors degree from an accredited university or college with a Grade Point Average of 3.0 or higher.
If you are interested in a research degree, or would like to apply to a school that does not allow online applications, please contact us for the appropriate postgraduate application form.
Middlesex is licensed to administer and certify loan applications for the United States Department of Education (USDE) Direct Loan programme on behalf of eligible U.S.
students.
The Direct Loan (Stafford loan) and Direct Loan Plus are educational loans borrowed from the USDE, with interest rates and other terms set by the U.S.
federal government.
Students must meet all applicable eligibility requirements in order to participate.
You could be eligible to receive a US student loan.
Visit our US Loan page for more information.
Marshall Scholarships finance up to 50 young Americans each year to study at graduate level in the UK in any field of study.
Scholarships cover tuition fees, living expenses (including accommodation), airfare and other eligible allowances.
Applications are normally open from early June through late September.
The Fulbright U.S.
Student Program provides grants for individually designed study, research projects or for English Teaching Assistant Programs.
A candidate should submit a Statement of Grant Purpose defining activities to take place during one academic year in a participating country outside the U.S.
Recipients of the Gilman international scholarship receive up to $5,000 to apply toward study abroad or internship program.
Applicant must be applying to a program or internship abroad eligible for credit at the student's institution of higher education in the US.
GI Bill
The U.S.
Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) offers financial support to eligible veterans, their dependents, and survivors.
Programs like the GI Bill offer financial aid for tuition, books, and living expenses.
List of VA Approved programmes at Middlesex University
Our dedicated Regional Team provides tailored support to students from the USA.
Our US-based advisors can advise on course applications, college transfers, study abroad opportunities, scholarships and loans, visa applications and much more.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/vietnam:
For entry to an undergraduate degree, students must have completed Year 12 with a minimum of 6.5/10 and completed a one-year foundation studies programme.
Students who have completed Year 12 with a minimum of 6.5/10 may apply to our Bachelor Degree with Integrated Foundation Year (4-year course).
Students who have completed Year 1 of University in Vietnam, may be able to enter on to Year 1 entry of an undergraduate degree at Middlesex.
Students must have completed a University degree in Vietnam (4 years study).
MBA: Same requirements at MA/MSC plus minimum 3 years of working experience in a managerial role.
Our unique network of offices and representatives across the Asia Pacific region means that we can offer a personalised service to Vietnamese students, supporting you in your application to Middlesex University.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/support-in-your-country/zimbabwe:
Tel: +254 20 2153497 Mobile: +254 710450118 or +254 736 080133 Email: E.Chepkosgei@mdx.ac.uk Address: Nakumatt Ukay 2nd Floor Westlands P.O Box 103132 - 00101 Nairobi Kenya

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/middlesex-english-language-test:
When you receive a conditional offer to study at Middlesex, we might ask you to meet specific English language requirements.
If you haven’t taken a test, you can apply to take Middlesex's in-house English language test.
The test is free and open to students from any country.
You can apply through one of our International offices depending on your location.
No, but you will need a conditional offer from Middlesex University to take the test.
Yes, you can take the exam from anywhere as long as you have a reliable internet connection and there are no restrictions preventing you from accessing the test from within the country where you want to take it.
● A stable internet connection
● A PC or laptop with a webcam and an inbuilt microphone (headsets are not permitted)
● A mobile phone
● A quiet place where you can be alone to take the exam
You cannot take the test on a tablet or phone.
The exam tests all four skills (listening, speaking, writing, and reading), but incomparison to the IELTS test, there are differences in the format of the test, and it is taken entirely online.
Autumn 2024 Test dates
You will be given a practice reading/writing exam prior to the test.
No special preparation is required for the listening/speaking test.
● The Reading & Writing test is taken in one session on an online proctored platform.
You will need to download an app and set up a webcam, mobile camera and screen share.
● If you pass the Reading & Writing test, then you will proceed to the Listening & Speaking test.
This is conducted one-on-one with an examiner via Zoom and takes approximately 20 minutes.
The results will be sent to you from your International office in an email.
Check the table below to see when you can expect to receive your results.
The test has a numerical grading system from 1 – 6.
● Undergraduates need to achieve an overall score of at least 3.
● Postgraduates need to achieve an overall score of at least 3.5.
You cannot retake the exam immediately.
The time recommended before resitting will be determined by the score you receive, and we can advise you on this.
Three months is the minimum amount of time before resitting.
If you do not receive the desired results, we can advise you on taking a Pre-sessional English course .
Single Skill Testing is an option for candidates who have taken an accepted English language test and achieved the overall required score, but fall short in one specific component (e.g., reading, writing, speaking, or listening).
Instead of retaking the entire test, you can take our test focusing only on the component where you didn't meet the requirement.
This can be combined with your existing certificate to meet English Language requirements.
You're eligible for Single Skill Testing if:
If you think you qualify for Single Skill Testing, contact your regional office .
They will provide you with more information about availability and how to register.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/health-and-wellbeing:
From campus facilities to pioneering research efforts, we strive to create a fairer and healthier world for everyone.
We are creating a healthier world.
By carrying out research and providing education.
By reducing inequalities and increasing access to healthcare.
By promoting emotional, physical and social wellbeing for everyone, regardless of their age or background.
Students benefit from our active wellness community, as well as the wide range of initiatives supported by the UK Healthy Universities Network which we are members of.
Creating a healthier and fairer world is a complex problem.
Finding solutions depends on developing a holistic understanding of what it means to live a healthy and fulfilling life.
This means looking at issues from a variety of perspectives.
Our research centres address a wide range of physical and mental health challenges, from using nanoparticles for drug therapies to creating a safer online world for the next generation.
We work closely with policy, civic and industry leaders, academic partners and people with lived experience.
Together, we’re making breakthroughs that lead to change locally, nationally and globally.
We provide outstanding education across health and allied disciplines and boast brilliant industry partnerships.
Students also benefit from top facilities including our £24 million high-tech training centre in the West Stand at StoneX Stadium, home of Saracens Rugby.
And you’ll often find researchers and students working with academy and elite players and coaches in our sports science labs.
Our centre of excellence for simulation-based learning helps future nurses and midwives link classroom theory with professional skills.
Our Biophysics and Bioengineering Group has developed revolutionary wearable technology to provide early detection of respiratory problems in infants.
This technology and related innovations were adapted and tested for diagnostic and treatment purposes as part of our response to the COVID-19 pandemic and its longer-term effects.
“Every year around 15 million babies are born prematurely with many suffering respiratory failure due to the immaturity of their lungs.
This fantastic and low-cost technology that monitors infants’ breathing in real time has the potential to ensure serious respiratory problems are averted and that lives are saved."
Professor Richard Bayford, Middlesex University
Our work focuses on the use and understanding of gold nanoparticles for more effective and targeted therapies.
This has considerable importance for pharmaceutical research, with the potential to optimise medical intervention for diseases including cancer, dementia and COVID-19, as well as improve the delivery of new vaccines.
These ground-breaking therapies could significantly reduce the side effects associated with other treatments, like chemotherapies.
UK, USA and China.
Emergex, Proxima Concepts, Ascend Diagnostics, St Mary's Hospital, UCL, ASU, Imperial College London, King's College Hospital, Nanjing University of Science and Technology and other partners in China.
Juan Carlos Augusto, Professor of Computer Science at Middlesex, and his team take an inclusive and collaborative approach in their research into health and wellbeing.
Hear from Juan about how the team have worked collaboratively with people with Down's syndrome to co-design technology that make everyday tasks simpler for them.
There are concerns about the harmful impact of the internet on children’s wellbeing, including of viewing pornography.
Before our research however there was a lack of incontrovertible evidence about the effects of the internet on young people’s behaviour.
There were also gaps in policing practice and statutory requirements to protect them online.
Our research findings and recommendations relating to the digital experiences of children and young people across the UK have informed important legislative, policy, education and policing changes.
This included a new statutory requirement to teach relationships and sex education in all secondary schools and the Online Safety Bill 2022 which promises to give users more control over who can contact them and what they see online.
Our work also lead to changes in police practice and training for front line practitioners internationally.
Across the UK and Netherlands, Italy and Ireland.
Office of the Children’s Commission for England, NSPCC, Barnardos, Child Exploitation and Online Protection Command as part of UK's National Crime Agency, European Commission, Internet Watch Foundation.
We were commissioned to carry out this research by the suicide prevention charity Samaritans, on behalf of the rail industry, to better understand how to support people in crisis and prevent future suicide attempts.
The project contributed to suicide prevention activities including changes to industry practice and staff training and an award-winning public awareness campaign called ‘ Small Talk Saves Lives ’.
This led to a significant decrease in suicides on the London Underground and increase in life-saving interventions at railway locations by staff and members of the public.
Universities UK recognised project lead Dr Lisa Marzano as a “Nation's Lifesaver” for making a life-changing difference to UK health and wellbeing, and she received a ‘Lifesaver Award’ from Transport for London.
UK railways and coastal locations, roads and bridges, Germany, the Netherlands.
Samaritans , Rail Safety and Standards Board, Transport for London, Network Rail British Transport Police, ProRail Netherlands, Caritas Berlin.
Colleagues at the University of Westminster and Canterbury Christchurch University.
The Equity and Improvements in Health and Wellbeing theme links to 12 Sustainable Development Goals.
The goals were set by the United Nations General Assembly as a blueprint to achieve a better and more sustainable future for all.
No Poverty 2.
Zero Hunger 4.
Quality Education 6.
Clean Water and Sanitation 7.
Affordable and Clean Energy 9.
Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure 11.
Sustainable Cities and Communities 12.
Responsible Consumption and Production 13.
Climate Action 14.
Life below Water 15.
Life on Land 17.
Partnerships for the Goals
MDX staff produced nearly 70,000 protective visors for NHS employees, using the university's six laser cutters.
The visors were based on an open-source design, using which each visor takes just a few minutes to produce.
The laser cutters ran up to nine hours a day, seven days a week.
The visors were boxed up with a personal message from MDX and sent to a range of London hospitals.
Meanwhile, MDX Arts and Creative Industries staff cut out the material for hospital gowns and hundreds of sets of scrubs which were then sent to homeworkers to stitch together.
The material and half-finished garments were transported between locations by Hendon Fire Brigade and the NHS.
Around 500 MDX nursing and midwifery students have been working on the frontline of the Covid-19 crisis, in hospitals and other healthcare settings.
Second and third year students could elect whether to continue their placements, and could also choose to opt in to government's emergency register ready to be activated if the health service was struggling to cope.
In addition, apprentice trainee nursing associates continued their work in their Trusts as healthcare assistants and first year students could volunteer as healthcare assistants through the Capital Nurse programme.
3.
Economics lecturer Dr Valerio Capraro collaborated with Helene Barcelo of Berkeley Mathematical Science Research Institute on research surveying around 2,500 people in the US about their willingness to wear a face mask in public .
The research found American males less willing than females to wear a mask, but the gender difference was smaller in US counties were mask wearing had been made mandatory.
However, the degree to which more men than women thought wearing a mask "uncool" and a "sign of weakness" was the same in areas with mandatory and optional mask wearing.
The research was widely covered in a range of liberal and conservative-leaning media in the US, UK and around the world.
4.
Senior Lecturer in Law Joelle Grogan coordinated the Covid-19 and States of Emergency Symposium , which showed that emergency powers implemented during the Covid-19 pandemic have impacted nearly 80% of the world’s population.
The Symposium, co-hosted by journalistic and academic forum Verfassungsblog and Democracy Reporting International, engaged more than 100 specialists and published reports from 74 countries over a seven week period at the height of world governments’ response to the pandemic.
5.
Professor of Biophysics and Engineering Richard Bayford worked to develop a rapid test for Covid-19 , alongside researchers from UCL, the universities of Bologna and Siena and four biomedical companies including UK start-up Vaxcine (UK) Ltd, which is providing one of the technologies.
The test was based on work Professor Bayford and colleagues have been doing on biosensors for a number of years, for example to detect early-stage Alzheimer’s Disease.
This matchbox-sized detection device could be connected to a mobile phone to display and record the results, would test for Covid-19 and seasonal flu simultaneously and would be easily adaptable for mutations of Covid-19.
6.
Senior Lecturer in Childhood Studies Dr Jacqueline Harding reviewed academic studies on play for a report in conjunction with toy manufacturers Fisher Price, which concluded that parents could reduce their stress levels during self-isolation by playing with their children , and that laughing with children during playtime is as good as a gym workout for the immune system.
“Sitting down and playing could not only be the best thing you do for your child, it could also be the best thing you do for yourself as a parent.”
7.
Professor of Environmental Science Lian Lundy, is co-ordinating a global network to develop an open-access database on the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) in sewage .
Results will feed into research on the use of sewage to provide an early warning of local outbreaks of COVID-19.
8.
Two MDX Psychology academics conducted research on how confinement during the lockdown affected couples' relationship with each other.
Participants kept a written or audio diary of their experiences over the course of a week.
Dr Deborah Bailey-Rodriguez's 10 tips to couples and other co-habitees to manage the strains of the situation were widely reported in UK and international media.
9.
Jeffrey DeMarco and Elena Martellozzo from the University’s Centre for Abuse and Trauma Studies (CATS ), who have extensively researched online child abuse, have urged parents to be vigilant about Apps such as Zoom, House Party and Tik Tok, downloaded everyday by millions of young people, and offered other advice about the best way to keep children safe during lockdown
10.
A study led by Professor Arie Nouwen is examining the psychological effects of social distancing on people with diabetes, amid concerns they are particularly vulnerable to SARS-CoV-2.
Discover the vision driving us forward into the next decade
The Middlesex Drug and Alcohol Research Centre (DARC) is a multi-disciplinary centre engaging staff and students with social science, health, social care and humanities backgrounds.
DARC provides new insights into drug and alcohol use and explores policy and intervention responses across cultures and countries and over time.
The Centre plays an important role in local, national and European research projects.
These are funded by the EU and other international sources, government departments, research councils and charities.
For example, we are carrying out pioneering research on drug use in higher education and the role of harm reduction approaches in universities, as well as drug education in schools.
Read more about this research in this area and how it feeds into our teaching and wider activities:
Drug and Alcohol Research Centre
MDX nursing academics have been working to upskill adult social care nurses in care homes across North London.
This innovative partnership was ‘highly commended’ at the London Higher Awards 2024 for its significant contribution to addressing the training gap, meeting complex local needs and supporting the future workforce.
Could there be a world where we wouldn't need chemotherapy or prolonged chemotherapy to treat cancer?
There could very well be.
As a cancer researcher I could definitely see it happening in the next 5 to 10 years because the focus of cancer treatments are shifting from your standard protocol chemotherapy to more personalized chemotherapies.
What we're doing differently is that we are using a state-of-the-art gene editing technology called CRISPR.
What we do is we cut out certain pathways through these gene editing techniques to block certain genes and then we expose them to chemotherapy drugs to see how they respond.
What we saw was that they required far fewer doses of chemotherapy to kill the cancer.
So that being translated into actual medicine could mean that people would need fewer doses of chemotherapy now that we have very accurate and precise gene editing technologies.
We can try lots of different things.
We can take this same principle and apply it to different cancers such as breast cancer, cervical cancers, ovarian cancers.
Definitely there's more research that needs to be done but it is quite possible that people would need very little chemotherapy in the future to kill cancer.
We create new knowledge and put it into action.
We benefit society, the economy, the environment, health and wellbeing, and culture and communities.
We want to find novel solutions to the practical problems facing the planet, and do that in collaboration with other researchers around the world.
Join us as a researcher or in a research partnership.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/culture-and-enterprise:
We’re taking action so everyone has the opportunities they need to reach their potential, whatever their background.
Improving access to training and education.
Providing support for entrepreneurs and small businesses.
Giving a voice to people facing discrimination and inequality.
At Middlesex, we’re taking action so everyone has the opportunities they need to reach their potential, whatever their background.
And this starts with breaking down barriers.
Whether this means tackling the issues facing marginalised communities, such as those living in poverty, or supporting groups facing discrimination based on race or gender.
Working together, our community creates an environment that encourages innovation and economic growth.
We want to share the benefits of economic development across society, not only through enterprise, but also through culture which transforms lives.
Our teaching, public engagement, research and knowledge exchange connect us to the wider community and create meaningful conversations.
We provide our students and researchers with a platform to explore what matters to them.
This means everyone at Middlesex feels a sense of our contribution to global challenges, individually and collectively.
We work across the creative arts to share new ideas and entertain audiences.
At the same time, we preserve and celebrate the heritage of our diverse communities, allowing individuals to learn about history and traditions.
Musicians rely on streaming platforms like Spotify and YouTube to reach their audiences, however there is a lack of transparency which limits their ability to be fairly compensated.
Our research looked at the potential opportunities and challenges which blockchain technology offers the music industry to change how they develop and distribute content.
Our Blockchain for the Creative Industries cluster published ‘Music on the Blockchain’, acclaimed as “the most in-depth look so far at how the music industry can benefit from blockchain technology”.
This influenced decision-making on the use of blockchain and inspired innovation and new blockchain initiatives.
Today our research continues to address challenges faced by artists and songwriters, for example to make transactions as part of streaming deals more reliable and transparent.
For creators, digital entrepreneurs, incumbent music businesses and governmental authorities in the UK, USA, Italy, Finland.
Cross-disciplines with Middlesex computer scientists.
Music industry trade body Featured Artists Coalition, Nick Mason, drummer with Pink Floyd.
Society continues to face the urgent issue of how we can tackle race discrimination by employers.
Our research into discrimination in the NHS evidenced patterns of under-representation of Black and Minority Ethnic (BME) staff within senior and Board levels of the NHS and demonstrated effective ways to create change.
Our research showed that data driven accountability linked to contractual obligation is required to reduce discrimination.
The Business School was commissioned to design the NHS Workforce Race Equality Standard which has driven sustained and large scale action in the NHS, England’s largest employer.
The ongoing positive impacts on policy and individual staff include a greater likelihood of BME staff being appointed from shortlisting, more BAME staff appointed at senior/Board level, and a reduction in the likelihood of disciplinary action for BME staff.
UK, specifically within the NHS
NHS
The Inclusive Socio-economic Development and Enriching Lives through Culture theme links to 11 Sustainable Development Goals.
Quality Education 5.
Gender Equality 7.
Affordable and Clean Energy 8.
Decent Growth and Economic Growth 9.
Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure 10.
Reduced Inequalities 12.
Responsible Consumption and Production 16.
Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions 17.
Lorraine Leeson, Senior Lecturer in Fine Art at Middlesex, involves a group of older men living in east London called the Geezers in her inclusive art practice.
They have worked together for more than ten years looking for innovative and artistic solutions for sustainable energy and other challenges in their community.
I met this group called ‘The Geezers’ who based at an Age UK centre in Bow and I asked them a question; what technology would you like to see that would benefit yourself, your community?
Somebody replied, Ted it was at the time, to say whatever happened to tidal power?
He said there's a tidal river down the road.
Older people can't afford to heat their home, so why aren't we using it to power our community?
And I had to say I know absolutely nothing about tidal power but I'll take you every step of the way that I can.
And we had our name going by electricity driven by the Thames water outside the Houses of Parliament, and that was amazing.
I think as academics we've got the facilities and the means and the methods to actually engage with people.
It's through the engagement that we, I think, really make a difference.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/sustainable-communities:
We work at a local and global level to pinpoint the changes needed to protect our planet.
Economic and technological progress has come at a cost.
The global disruption of the balance of nature is threatening the survival of many species, including our own.
One of today’s big challenges is how to use our knowledge to find new ways of living together with nature.
Social, political, technological, cultural and philosophical – the issues we need to overcome are diverse.
Changing local and global communities requires insight into what to focus on and how.
It also relies on the courage to address and abolish inequalities, damaging practices and unsustainable ways of working.
But we also need a vision of what is possible.
The motivation to change things must be rooted in the hope that we, as a species and as a planet, have all to live for.
From arts to science, from business to health and everything in between, the community of students and staff at Middlesex is nurturing that hope, without which nothing can be achieved.
We’re solving complex challenges that rely on a combination of expertise.
To find sustainable ways of living and working, we bring together all disciplines across the university and beyond.
Small lifestyle and behavioural changes can have profound implications for tackling climate issues.
Middlesex researchers worked with the London Borough of Barnet to develop ways of including young children in imagining sustainable futures and building up environmental awareness.
Minibeasts of Barnet focused on how 'small things can make a big difference’, encouraging children, with their families and carers, to take personal responsibility for the spaces they share with even the smallest of creatures.
The project was shaped by activities that encouraged children to experiment and explore.
By working with teachers and tapping into the work already underway, the team took a collaborative approach and worked with local school communities.
The activities, books and resources used in each school were adapted to what emerged throughout the project.
A children’s book Minibeasts of Barnet, based on this project, was published in July 2024.
For further information, see the Minibeasts website
Can four-year-olds teach us how to be connected to nature?
Four-year-olds have the capacity to be open to surprises and to explore through the senses.
They do not set themselves up as experts about a given thing.
Mini Beasts of Barnet has been an arts-based project.
It's very much about working with children through creative methods, to think about and engage with very small creatures and how they experience living in Barnet.
So it's about bringing the connection of being an inhabitant of a local London borough.
We've been on nature trails, we've collaged.
It’s also about movement so we've been moving as spiders or ants on hot sand and trying to think with our senses.
It's very much an intergenerational project as well.
The idea is that children become the teachers through doing, and adults as a result have shifts in their behaviours and attitudes towards their responsibilities to the local environment and the global environment.
There's a philosophy that underpins it, and the philosophy is that humans, mini beasts, children, we all have an equal stake in planet Earth.
So it's about building a sense of collective responsibility for planet Earth, the environment, as it's experienced within the borough of Barnet.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/graduate-school:
The Graduate School at Middlesex University provides an inclusive and dynamic environment for postgraduate research.
Middlesex University is recognised nationally and internationally for the remarkable diversity of its postgraduate researchers who come from a wide range of ethnicities, countries of origins, professional backgrounds, and walks of life.
At Middlesex University, our portfolio of postgraduate research degrees is designed to stay at the forefront of academic and professional development to benefit your career within or outside of academia.
We offer numerous postgraduate research degrees, ranging from the PhD, to Practice-Based doctorates, Doctorates by Public Works and Masters by Research.
Our postgraduate researchers are guided by supervisors who are leaders in their fields.
If you are a prospective postgraduate researcher, whether your passion lies in the sciences, arts, education, health, social sciences, business or professional advancement, you will benefit from mentorship by internationally renowned experts who will support and challenge you to achieve your research ambitions.
Learn more about Graduate School
Find out more about the Graduate School

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/research-culture:
We support our researchers to make an impact within a supportive and inclusive community.
Our purpose is to create knowledge and put it into action to develop fairer, healthier, more prosperous and sustainable societies.
Research allows us to deliver innovative education and meaningful impact.
We are joined across disciplines and areas, within and outside the higher education sector, and across policy platforms.
We work collaboratively to create solutions to complex problems.
Focusing on three core themes of health, socio economic development, and sustainability we offer an open and inclusive environment.
At Middlesex we recognise and value everyone involved in research – participants, partners, academics, professional services and our students.
Doing research at Middlesex is an immersive process.
We offer a broad spectrum of resources to enable the career trajectory of individuals and teams.
Their research is amplified and connected to broad audiences.
We are an international university and place ourselves at the heart of the communities we belong to and come from globally.
Our research is diverse and is found at the intersections of global challenges we face today.
We have invested in facilities, doctoral research partnerships, collaborations with industry and public, civic and voluntary sectors.
We hold inclusion at the core of our operations and vision.
We are a diverse university both in our learning, teaching and research, and also through the student and staff population, in London, Dubai and Mauritius.
Our principles of open research and research integrity shape our inclusive culture.
We have an expansive set of laboratories, and studios with relevant training to hand.
Our library and kit hub have resources which are useful in the production and communication of research.
We host research events regularly at Middlesex that are open to community members, as well policy makers.
We also support new ideas for research through our internal funding mechanisms and provide bursaries for postgraduate research.
We remain connected through our Research and Knowledge Exchange Office to research as knowledge exchange and its value as continuing professional development.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/research-integrity:
Middlesex University is committed to the maintenance of the highest standards of research integrity and ethical practice in its research.
We were an early adopter of the Concordat to Support Research Integrity and we adhere to the principles and practices set out in that document.
We expect that all staff and students engaged in research conduct their activities in line with the UUK Concordat, including any visitors who make use of, or are supported by, the University and/or its facilities.
All those engaged in research are expected to adhere to the following:
Staff and students should also make full use of the Middlesex Online Research Ethics (MORE) system prior to the commencement of any research or knowledge transfer work.
Our Annual statement on research integrity shows how we've been supporting research integrity over the past academic year.
Should any member of staff or research student require further information on matters relating to research integrity, see Public Policy Statements and Research Ethics for more information.
For concerns about the integrity of research and knowledge transfer being conducted at the University that they wish to discuss in confidence, they should contact the more relevant of our research team or our knowledge exchange team.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/research-data:
Research data are any materials collected or created for the purposes of analysis to generate original research results, irrespective of the format.
They may be digital, paper based or in other forms.
Research data can be defined as any digital object created during the course of research (which might include documents, still images, video and audio files, spreadsheets, software, computer code, databases or websites) in addition to physical objects such as sketchbooks, diaries, lab notebooks, portfolios, models, or other artefacts.
It also includes the documentation of Practice-as-Research.
The benefits of looking after your research data effectively include:
See " Making the case for Research Data Management " (Digital Curation Centre) for more detailed information.
Middlesex has a responsibility to ensure that research conducted by its employees, researchers and students, or by others in its name is carried out in conformity with the law, and in accordance with the best current practices and principles, and follows the University’s Code of Practice for Research: Principles and Procedures (intranet login required).
The University is committed to maintaining high standards of ethics in research and the Middlesex Online Research Ethics (MORE) system is designed to support researchers at all levels to undertake research according to relevant ethical, legal and professional obligations and standards, in whatever context.
It is important to remember that research data collection/analysis must not be undertaken prior to approval from your Research Ethics Committee.
Further information is available on the research ethics intranet page (intranet login required).
We gratefully acknowledge the work of the University of Bath in the development of this guidance.
A long-term archive of research data can have a number of benefits:
For more information about the benefits of archiving data, see Why Deposit Data?
from the UK Data Archive
Not all data need to be kept beyond the lifetime of a project; indeed in many cases it would be impractical to keep everything:
Before archiving data, you should carefully consider what is and is not important to keep.
Ideally, you should consider this before you even start, when writing your data management plan .
We all want to keep our data safe and secure, but there are several aspects to this which you should consider to have confidence that your data is as safe as it can be.
Files can be lost accidentally in many different ways.
Even if they are not lost completely, they can occasionally become corrupted.
If a file is severely corrupted it may be unusable, but even subtle corruption may introduce errors which go unnoticed while affecting the outcome of your research.
See storage and servers (log in to intranet) for further information including information about backing up data held on user controlled computers and file servers.
In many cases, you may wish to restrict access to your data to a specific list of individuals.
This might be because it is commercially sensitive to you or an industrial partner, or includes sensitive personal information covered by the Data Protection Act.
If you are collecting or using research data about individuals, you should read the University's Data Protection guidance (log in to intranet to view) , which includes information about academic research .
An often-overlooked aspect of data safety is ensuring that it remains usable.
Students and staff arrive and leave on a regular basis, and often it can seem easier to repeat a whole set of expensive experiments rather than try to understand data left behind by researchers who have left the university.
Not all research data are digital.
Most researchers keep hand-written laboratory notebooks, journals and other materials which are not kept on a computer at all.
These materials are at particular risk of loss, as you only have one of them so it's worth thinking about how you can make them safer.
Digitising them can be easy on a small scale, and even if you only use the non-digital version, having a digital version too can give you some valuable piece of mind.
Anything stored on paper can be scanned fairly easily:
Document scan be scanned and sent to your University e-mail only.
The scan and store option allows you to scan your documents or images directly to your USB drive/memory stick.
If it's not easy to scan, you could try taking a digital photo, but check the quality of the image to make sure you can use it if you lose the original.
Audio recordings can easily be turned into digital sound files, if the sound content is important, or transcribed if only the words are needed.
You can do this yourself, or employ a professional transcription service if you have a lot of recordings to digitise.
Other materials can also be digitised, with varying degrees of difficulty.
For more detail on digitisation, take a look at these digitisation guides from Jisc Digital Media.
If it is not practical to digitise the data or artefact, you should make sure that they are protected some other way.
A fireproof safe could be a good investment.
Your research data are valuable assets that you have probably invested considerable time, effort and money in creating.
Protecting your data from loss is therefore an important aspect of data management during your project.
To protect your data you need to consider how they are stored, backed-up and secured whilst you are still working on them.
When considering your data storage strategy, you should consider the following:
The IT One Stop Shop (intranet link – log in to access) is the place to get started for further information about file storage.
This includes links to IT policies (intranet link – log in to access) and information about file back-up (intranet link – log in to access) .
Off-campus IT support (intranet link – log in to access) reminds you to think about how secure your data storage / access is when off campus.
The following suggestions will help you to organise your data:
Use folders - When organising your data, consider using folders to group related files in one location.
The number of files or folders per group may vary depending on the nature of your data.
Apply meaningful folder names - Ensure that you use clear and appropriate folder names that relate to the area of work or study rather than the individual responsible.
This will avoid confusion if group members leave and is easier for new researchers to use.
Structure folders hierarchically - Design a folder structure with broad topics at the highest level and specific folders within these.
However, try to avoid nesting folders too deeply as this may cause problems with path lengths.
Separate current and completed work - you may find it helpful to move temporary drafts or completed work into separate folders.
This will also make it easier to review what you need to keep as you go along.
Control access at the highest level - it is easier to set access permissions near the top of your folder structure rather than trying to control permissions for deeply nested folders.
This is particularly important if you need to grant someone access to only a subset of your data, in which case you could move these data to a new, higher-level folder.
Naming conventions are rules that allow electronic and physical records to be named in a consistent and logical way.
Use of consistent and meaningful names will enable you to identify and distinguish between similar records, making data retrieval easier.
If you create large numbers of data files that would be difficult to name individually, apply your naming convention at the folder level instead.
When you agree your naming convention, consider the following suggestions:
Files in a folder are usually shown sorted by name.
You can take advantage of this to have your files appear in a consistent order.
Filenames starting with special characters such as @ will appear first, followed by numbers, then the letters A to Z
For example, you might use this to arrange your files as follows:
2012-03-07_Subject-A_Audio.mp3
2012-03-07_Subject-A_Transcript-raw.docx
2012-03-07_Subject-A_Transcript-anonymised.docx
2012-04-22_Subject-B_Audio.mp3
2012-04-22_Subject-B_Transcript-raw.docx
As you work with your data it is important to distinguish between different versions or drafts of your files.
Version control can help you to easily identify the current version of your data so that you avoid working on older or outdated copies.
If you are working with others it can also help to link versions of the data to the time and author of the change.
There are a number of ways that different versions of data can be managed:
File naming - a simple method of version control is to create a duplicate copy and then update version information to create a unique file or folder name.
Version control tables - these are included within documents and can capture more information than using file naming conventions.
Version control tables typically include the new version number, date of the change, person who made the change and the nature or purpose of the change.
Version control systems - there are many automated systems available that can store a repository of files and monitor access to them, logging who made what change and when.
Version control systems are particularly useful for collaborative development of code or software.
GitHub is a useful place to share, manage and review code.
Please see below a number of useful pages on our Intranet to help you further.
Please note, you will need to log in to access the Intranet.
Further guidance on organising data:
We acknowledge the work of the UK Data Service, the University of Glasgow, the University of Leicester, the University of Southampton and the University of Bath in the development of this guidance.
The University recognises several levels of sensitive data and information in its Information Classification Framework.
If you are working with sensitive data, such as those relating to individuals or commercial companies, you need to take extra precautions to ensure they can only be viewed by those with permission to do so.
Encryption is the process of obfuscating data so that only those with the correct decryption key or password are able to read them.
The strength of encryption refers to how difficult it would be for an attacker to decrypt the data without knowing the key in advance, and this depends on both the method and the key used.
The tool you use for encryption should inform you of the method it will use and may give you a choice.
The Information Commissioner's Office currently recommends using the AES-128 or AES-256 encryption methods, of which the latter is stronger.
Whenever setting the key to be used by an encryption method, be sure to use a strong password.
sing external storage providers
While external services such as Dropbox, Google Drive and OneDrive are convenient, they do not comply fully with the University's data policies due to the following issues:
Such solutions should therefore be avoided for sensitive data.
If you are considering using external storage providers nevertheless, perhaps because of conditions imposed by external collaborators, only consider those which will allow you to take the following security measures:
Securing computer equipment
Even if the data are stored securely, there is a risk that unauthorised persons might access the data using the credentials and equipment of authorised users.
There are steps that can be taken to mitigate this risk:
For more information about securing computer equipment, please contact Project Leader: IT Security.
(intranet link log in to access)
Transmission over standard HTTP or email is not secure, and may be intercepted and read by third parties.
Extra precautions need to be taken when transferring sensitive data between collaborators:
ou should ensure that you dispose of sensitive data securely.
For example, If you have collected personal data, you should ensure that your methods of disposal provide adequate protection for the identity of participants.
Furthermore, you might be required to demonstrate that you have complied with any requirements to destroy third-party data in accordance with their terms of use.
Digital data Removal of old IT equipment should always be arranged via CCSS and the Dell Managed Service.
It must never be handed onto staff for their personal use or disposed of in any other way without the express permission of CCSS Desktop Devices / Logistics Manager.
Please use the links below for more information:
Non-digital data Paper-based sensitive data can be disposed of using the University's confidential waste secure facilities which are provided on all campuses for the disposal of confidential information in line with BS EN 15713:2009
An important but sometimes neglected step in generating research data is writing documentation to accompany it.
First and foremost this documentation will be useful to you when you come to write up your results, especially if this will be some time later, and should you wish to revisit the data in a future project.
The documentation will also be vital for anyone else coming to validate your findings, evaluate your data, or build on your work.
When documenting your data, the aim is to provide enough information so that a fellow researcher who is familiar with your field, but not necessarily your work within it, should be able to understand the data, interpret them correctly, and use them in new research.
You may find it helpful to consider what you would need to know in order to use someone else's data in your research.
Typically this will include the method used to collect the data and how they have been recorded, structured, processed or manipulated.
You may also need to provide some broader context to explain the motivation for the design decisions you have taken and the significance of what you found.
More specifically, you may need to include some of the following elements:
You may be recording some of this information in a lab notebook or research journal.
If so, you may find it convenient to record the corresponding page numbers alongside the data files until you have an opportunity to transfer the information into a documentation file.
Depending on the context there are several places where the documentation can be placed:
Readme files A readme file is a plain text file that is named 'readme' to encourage users it to read it before looking at the remainder of the content.
It can contain documentation directly or instruct the reader where to look to find more information.
Even though it is free text, the file should be structured into sections as an aid to the reader.
The following are suggestions for what to include:
There are lots of decisions to make before you start to create your data.
Making these choices early on in your project can save you time and effort later, and your decisions will affect how you can use, share and publish your data.
Many funders now expect you to show you've engaged in data planning.
You can do this by writing a data management plan, which is a document describing how your data will be handled both during a research project and after the project has ended.
If you are applying for research funding you may be required to submit a data management plan as part of your grant application.
There are a number of templates and tools available to help you write your data management plan.
You can also ask for your data management plan to be reviewed before it's finalised.
A review can ensure that your plans are suitable for the type of data you'll be creating and check that you'll comply with policies and legislation relevant to your project .
Other common names for a Data Management Plan include:
Throughout these web pages, we use the term "Data Management Plan" to cover all of these and similar documents.
A number of funding bodies require that data security questionnaires are completed for the projects that they fund.
The IT Security Manager can advise on technical aspects of data security for these questionnaires.
Many funders now expect you to show you've engaged in data planning.
The Project Leader - IT Security (intranet link log in to access) can advise on technical aspects of data security for these questionnaires.
Many funding bodies now require data management plans to be submitted as part of grant applications, although the format and content of these plans can differ between funders.
The University of Bath has an excellent summary of funder policies which includes information on the requirements for data management plans for different funders.
The University of Bath also has excellence guidance on funder expectations for data management plans as does the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine ( funder requirements for data management and sharing ).
If you would like individual help with writing a data management plan, please contact the Research Data Management Support service at research-data@mdx.ac.uk
For more information about securing computer equipment, please contact the Project Leader: IT Security .
Writing a data management plan typically involves answering a series of questions about how you plan to create, describe, secure, retain and share your data.
Your plan should be concise and appropriate to the nature of your research, with more detailed plans for larger projects.
You should justify the decisions you make and be prepared to implement your plan.
You can also update your plan once your project has started to reflect changes in your research.
Because of the diversity of research, there is no single correct answer to what a data management plan should cover.
However, a good data management plan should typically address the following topics:
This summary of funder policies (from the University of Bath) includes information on the requirements for data management plans for different funders.
The Research and Knowledge Transfer Office and the Library Research Support Team and can provide help with writing data management plans and can review them prior to submission with grant applications.
If at all possible let us know as soon as possible.
Contact us at research-data@mdx.ac.uk .
A Research Data Management Policy has been approved for the University.
The policy sets out the University's expectations for the management and sharing of research data.
The policy is relevant to all researchers, including postgraduate students.
Anyone undertaking or supporting research should ensure that they are familiar with it.
Many funding councils have policies on research data that expect data underpinning published research articles to be made as openly available as possible in a timely and responsible manner.
The policy will ensure that research data are managed in a way that considers the requirements of collaborators, funders, and research participants.
The policy covers:
The policy was approved by Academic Board in June 2015, having been previously approved by Achievement Committee in May 2015.
It was developed by the Research Support Team within Library & Student Support (LSS) in collaboration with the Digital Curation Centre and involved a wide consultation process, with input from representatives of all groups on which the policy may impact.
The Middlesex University Research Data Management Policy , approved by Academic Board in June 2015, sets out expectations of researchers with regard to the management and sharing of research data.
The University's Research Data Policy is aligned with the Middlesex University Code of Practice for Research .
Many of the University's main funders also have policies on research data or data sharing, broady aligned with the Research Councils UK Common Principles on Data Policy .
The University also has a number of other policies relevant to research data management including:
More Information:
For advice on compliance with University or funder policies on research data, please contact research-data@mdx.ac.uk .
Sharing research results is an established academic practice, whether through publication or through more informal means with colleagues and collaborators.
The increasing digitisation of research means that it has never been easier to share data on a more detailed level.
If you're setting out on a research project, it's worth checking whether there are already data available that you might be able to use.
This may show up as part of a literature review, but there are a number of dedicated data archives and repositories which you should take a look at too.
There are a number of reasons why you might consider sharing your own research data:
Data access statements, also known as data availability statements, are used in publications to describe where data directly supporting the publication can be found and under what conditions they can be accessed.
Data access statements are required for all publications arising from publicly-funded research.
They are a requirement of many funders' data policies and are a requirement of the RCUK Policy on Open Access (download the pdf, Section 3.3 ii) .
Inclusion of a data access statement is recommended for publications reporting other research.
Some funders have indicated that they now check for the inclusion of data access statements in publications that acknowledge their support.
In particular, the requirement applies to all papers that acknowledge EPSRC funding with a publication date after 1 May 2015.
The aim of the data access statement is discoverability - the data referenced by the statement do not have to be openly available.
There are many reasons why access to data should be restricted and if you are unsure about whether you should publish your data openly please research-data@mdx.ac.uk for advice.
Some journals now provide a separate section in articles for the data access statement.
Where no such section exist, we suggest that you include the data access statement with the acknowledgement of funder support.
A formal data citation can also be included either with the main references or in a specified data citation section.
If you're unsure where to provide your data access statement please contact research-data@mdx.ac.uk for help.
The following are recommendations for what to include in the data access statement:
A simple direction to interested parties to contact the author would not normally be considered sufficient.
The data access statement should be included in submitted manuscripts, even if identifiers have not yet been issued.
The statement should be updated to include any persistent identifiers or accession numbers as they become available, typically when the manuscript is accepted for publication.
Data access statements can also be combined with formal data citations, particularly where a publication is supported by multiple datasets archived in different locations.
In this situation it may be more appropriate to cite each dataset separately, providing the persistent identifier in the citation, and direct users to the references from the data access statement.
DataCite provides examples of data citations .
Please note that to prevent creating bias in metrics monitoring DOI resolutions, the URLs used in these examples are not genuine.
Depending on the nature of your data you may wish to combine information from different examples.
Please contact research-data@mdx.ac.uk for help with structuring your data access statement.
"All data created during this research are openly available from [add in appropriate data archive e.g.
Figshare at http://doi.org/10.15125/12345."
"All data supporting this study are provided as supplementary information accompanying this paper."
"All data are provided in full in the results section of this paper."
"Expression data are openly available from ArrayExpress (Accession E-MTAB-01234 at https://www.ebi.ac.uk/arrayexpress/experiments/E-MTAB-01234/).
Crystal structures are available from the Cambridge Crystallographic Data Centre (Identifier BATHRS) at http://doi.org/10.15125/010203.
Microscopy images are openly available from Dryad at Home Page (doi.org)
"This publication is supported by multiple datasets, which are openly available at locations cited in the reference section."
"This study was a re-analysis of existing data that are publicly available from EMBL at http://doi.org/10.15125/12345.
Further documentation about data processing are available from the University of Bath data archive at http://doi.org/10.15125/12345."
"The study brought together existing data obtained upon request and subject to licence restrictions from a number of different sources.
Full details how these data were obtained are available in the documentation available at Home Page (doi.org) .
"Anonymised interview transcripts from participants who consented to data sharing, plus other supporting information, are available from the UK Data Service, subject to registration, at http://doi.org/10.15125/12345."
"Due to ethical concerns, supporting data cannot be made openly available.
Further information about the data and conditions for access are available at the: http://doi.org/10.15125/12345."
"Due to the (commercially, politically, ethically) sensitive nature of the research, no interviewees consented to their data being retained or shared.
Additional details relating to other aspects of the data are available from the http://doi.org/10.15125/12345."
"Supporting data are available to bona fide researchers, subject to registration, from the UK Data Service at http://doi.org/10.15125/12345."
Supporting data will be available from http://doi.org/10.15125/12345 after a 6 month embargo from the data of publication to allow for commercialisation of research findings."
"Due to confidentiality agreements with research collaborators, supporting data can only be made available to bona fide researchers subject to a non-disclosure agreement.
Details of the data and how to request access are available at: Home Page (doi.org)
"Non-digital data supporting this study are stored by the corresponding author at Middlesex University.
Details of how to request access to these data are at Home Page (doi.org)
"No new data were created during this study."
Please see below for a number of useful links for more information to help you
Digital data repositories, data archives or data centres accept, preserve and disseminate research data, often for a given community.
Repositories may be organised by subject (e.g.
structural chemistry data, gene sequence data, social science data) or by organisation such as a research funder.
Research data are typically submitted to the repository by the data creator or owner.
The data repository then takes responsibility for preserving the data, managing any access restrictions and making information about the data (metadata) discoverable.
A growing number of data repositories and databases are available that archive research data from many subject areas.
Unfortunately coverage of different disciplines varies - whilst the social sciences and biosciences are well supported, relatively few data repositories accept engineering data.
To help you find a suitable data repository a number of lists have been compiled:
To archive the data created by projects they support, some funders either run data centres or provide lists of recommended data repositories:
A number of journals support the use of Dryad , Figshare and Zenodo for data underlying scientific and medical literature.
Nature's Scientific Data journal also maintains a list of recommended data archives .
There are a number of things to consider when selecting a suitable repository to archive and publish your research data:
If you are considering using an external data archive and require advice on its suitability, please contact research-data@mdx.ac.uk for advice.
Jisc is funding a pilot service which will enable researchers to easily deposit data for publication, discovery, safe storage, long term archiving and preservation.
This means that they are able to provide sustainable access to research data so it can be re-used.
Part of the project remit will be to make a business case for ongoing investment in the service.
Middlesex University is a pilot partner alongside a number of other UK universities.
Phase 1 in the project sees Middlesex implement and trial figshare for institutions - a data repository platform.
Later phases will see the implementation of a preservation platform and integration work to enable interoperability.
For further information about the project see Jisc’s Research data shared service project pages as well as Jisc’s Research data blog .
If you have questions about our participation please get in touch via research-data@mdx.ac.uk.
Or take a look at our Yammer group.
There are a number of reasons why you can justify withholding your research data.
Withholding data means taking a decision not to openly publish them, even if there are obligations to funders or publishers to openly share the outputs of research.
If you receive a request for research data or information about your research under the Freedom of Information Act or a request for personal information under the Data Protection Act (login to the intranet to view) you should immediately refer the request to: Teresa Kelly - Data Protection Officer.
Research funders with data sharing policies typically require that research data are made as openly available as possible , recognising that there may be legal, ethical or commercial reasons why access to some data may need to be restricted.
These restrictions typically apply at all stages of a project so that the research process is not damaged by inappropriate release of data.
Access to research data does not have to be completely open.
If there are justified reasons why some research data cannot or should not be made openly available, it may still be possible to share subsets of your data either through use of consent and anonymisation, or by regulating and restricting access to specific users.
This should always be considered in preference to a blanket restriction.
Even if data are identified as unsuitable for open access, other data management requirements will still apply.
A data management plan should be used to identify and document reasons for withholding data and publications should still include a data access statement.
This statement should include reasons why the data are not openly available and, if possible, conditions for access being granted.
The information below provides guidance to help you determine whether you may be justified in withholding your research data from publication.
If you are unsure as to whether you could or should make your data openly available, please email the research data team before you publish your data.
Middlesex University recognises that information and the associated processes, systems and networks are valuable assets and that the management of personal data has important implications for individuals.
Through its security policies, procedures and structures, the University will facilitate the secure and uninterrupted flow of information, both within the University and in external communications.
The University believes that security is an integral part of the information sharing which is essential to academic and corporate endeavour and associated policies are in place to support information security measures throughout the University.
For further information on IT security get in touch with the Project Leader: IT Security (intranet link log in to access).
If you receive a request to access your research data or for information about your research under the Freedom of Information Act, please do not attempt to answer the request yourself but instead contact the Freedom of Information Officer .
Please note that the examples below relate to funder policies on data sharing and do not necessarily constitute valid exemptions under the Freedom of Information Act 2000.
Access to data doesn't mean that everything has to either be openly available to the public or completely restricted.
There are many types of access control that can be applied to all or part of your data, some of which will still allow you to share your data, but only with specific users under regulated conditions.
This should always be considered in preference to a complete restriction on the whole dataset.
Access restrictions can apply to all types of research data and at any stage of a project.
It is also possible that access restrictions can change over time.
For example, it would be unusual to share any data during the active phase of a project before findings have been published and continued access restrictions may be required to allow time for commercialisation.
However, after the end the project and once patent applications have been filed, it may be possible to release the data.
In some cases access restrictions might need to apply to an entire dataset.
However, in many cases it is likely that restrictions need only apply to a subset of the data, such as raw data containing personal identifiers, allowing you to openly share the remaining data where access constraints do not apply.
In rare situations it might be necessary to restrict access to both the data and to metadata describing the data.
If you think this might apply to your research, please email the research data team who will be able to advise on how best to comply with policy requirements for sharing data.
The type of access that can be applied is not as simple as open or closed.
Access to data can be restricted and regulated, allowing you more control over who is granted access to your data and when.
Publicly open access to data would be suitable if there are no justifiable legal, ethical, contractual or commercial constraints on releasing data.
This might apply only to final datasets supporting a publication, or to the completed outputs of a project, depending on your funder's requirements for data sharing.
A privileged period of exclusive access is permitted, allowing you time to analyse and publish the results of the data you have created or collected.
During a project, and assuming no other constraints apply, you would only need to provide access to the subset of data supporting published findings.
This would allow you time to continue to analyse and publish from your wider dataset.
However, funder data policies differ on how long this period of exclusive use should last - you may be required to publish all final datasets within a defined period from either the end of project funding or the date of data collection.
Embargoes allow you to delay access to data, during which time access would be completely restricted.
Embargoes can be used to ensure that your archived data are not published until the articles based upon them are accepted for publication or published.
This might be a condition of publication for some journal publishers.
Embargoes can also be used to delay access whilst patents are filed or while research is commercialised.
The Policy, Compliance & Legal Support Officer in the Research and Knowledge Transfer Office (log-in to intranet to view) would be able to advise on how long this process might take and how long the embargo would need to be.
Registered access is provided by some data archives, which require potential users to register before they are able to access data files.
Registered access allows the data archive to monitor who accesses data, enabling reminders about conditions of use to be issued.
Access upon request might be required for some types of confidential or sensitive data.
In order to manage this type of access a named contact is required for the dataset who would be responsible for making decisions about whether access is granted.
Non-disclosure agreements can be used to share confidential or sensitive data with specific individuals for specific purposes and under specific terms.
Contact the Policy, Compliance & Legal Support Officer in the Research and Knowledge Transfer Office (log-in to intranet to view) if you require a non-disclosure agreement for your data.
Research data involving human subjects must be handled in accordance with the Data Protection Act 1998.
The confidentiality of participants must be maintained and personal data should not be made available to any third party without the explicit, written, informed consent of the person to which it relates.
If you are unsure about how data protection might apply to your research data, there is data protection guidance (log-in to intranet to view) available.
You can also contact the data protection officer: Teresa Kelly for advice and help with wording consent statements.
Anonymised data should remove both direct and indirect identifiers, so that variables cannot be combined to reveal an individual's identity.
This would apply not only to personal data but also to research data about organisations and businesses.
Although consent for sharing only relates to research data containing personal data, it is best practice to seek written informed consent from research participants for data to keep and openly share anonymised data after the project ends.
Some external data archives will not accept anonymised data unless informed consent for data retention and publication was obtained.
It is possible to share only a subset of the data, where participants granted consent both to participate in the study and for their data to be retained and shared.
This should be made clear in the data access statement and in any accompanying documentation so that potential users understand that the data can be re-used for new analyses, but not for validation of the original findings.
There may be other ethical reasons why data should not be made openly available.
Inappropriate release of some types of data might put research participants, the public or vulnerable groups at risk.
In these or similar situations it may still be possible to share other information from the dataset, in which case it should be made clear to future users which variables have been redacted, aggregated or anonymised in the dataset and why.
Please email the research data team for advice if you think that there may be legal or ethical reasons why your data should be withheld.
Before you can openly share research data you need to ensure that you have the right to do so, including ownership rights and conditions of use.
The University's intellectual property policies and guidelines are intended to address both the rights and property aspects of IP generated within the institution.
See Intellectual Property (log-in to intranet to view) for further information.
Where research is funded by an external partner, or where an external partner makes a contribution to a project, the partner may be awarded Intellectual Property Rights in the results, including the research data.
This usually means that the results must be kept confidential by the University and only released under a publication protocol.
It is recommended that all collaboration agreements should address the basis on which research data will be stored, accessed and published.
If you have re-used any existing datasets that you have obtained from third parties then you need to ensure that you understand and comply with any terms under which the data may be used and shared.
These data might include datasets you have downloaded from online repositories or databases, or research data shared by project collaborators.
In some situations, typically for software, you may be required to share any modifications under the same licence as the original data.
There are a number of licences with this requirement and common examples include the GNU General Public Licences and the Creative Commons ShareAlike licences.
If you are not permitted to re-share or distribute the third party data directly, your documentation and data access statement should, as far as possible, provide details of where the study data were obtained so that other researchers can obtain or request access to the same data.
This is particularly important for publicly available data.
See Copyright (log-in to the intranet to view) for further information.
If your external research partners have provided you with any research data, or if you have collaboratively created new data, conditions for how these data may be used, retained and shared should be set out in any contracts or collaboration agreements covering the research.
Please contact the Research and Knowledge Transfer Office (log-in to intranet to view) for further advice.
If your existing research-related agreements include any confidentiality clauses, or if the University owes your external partners any obligations of confidentiality in respect of certain research data, you must ensure that data publication would not breach these.
The need to comply with confidentiality clauses and contractual obligations would be valid justifications for withholding research data.
However, it may be possible to share such data with other researchers, subject to non-disclosure agreements.
The Research and Knowledge Transfer Office (log-in to intranet to view) should be consulted if you need to set up any research related agreements.
It is recommended that future research-related agreements ensure that publicly funded research involving third parties is planned and executed in such a way that published findings can be scrutinised and, if necessary, validated by others.
We acknowledge the work of the University of Southampton (and the University of Bath) in the development of this guidance.
Access to research data can be restricted to protect commercially sensitive information, either created new or provided by commercial partners.
These data might be provided under terms of a collaboration agreement by a third party for use only within a specific research project.
Commercially sensitive information might also include data obtained in interviews with participants employed by external organisations.
Written, informed consent would be required before such commercially sensitive data could be made openly available.
In some rare situations it may not be appropriate to seek consent for sharing commercially sensitive data obtained from commercial partners or participants.
However, every endeavour should be taken to maximise the potential for data sharing.
Please contact the research data team for advice if you think seeking consent would jeopardise your research.
Depending on the terms of your research agreement, instead of completely restricting access it might be possible to make commercially sensitive data available only to certain users, such as bona fide researchers in a research organisation, and for a certain purpose, such as to verify and comment on a publication.
In such cases a Non-Disclosure Agreement will be required, which can be set up by the Research and Knowledge Transfer Office (log-in to intranet to view) .
In some situations data may not be commercially sensitive but might have commercial potential.
These data might eventually be suitable for sharing, but public access can be justifiably delayed to allow time to assess and protect the commercial potential of research.
This might involve the use of embargoes while patent applications are filed.
Many project funders encourage the protection of intellectual property rights arising from the research they are funding, but individual funder policies should be consulted prior to using this access restriction.
However, not all publishers accept restricted access to protect patent applications.
PLOS's data policy is one example and individual journal requirements should be checked to avoid manuscript rejections.
If you think your research might have commercial value, contact the Research and Knowledge Transfer Office (log-in to intranet to view) for advice on commercialisation before you publish the data.
If you can't find what you need please do get in touch with us at research-data@mdx.ac.uk
We are in the process of developing a programme of training – if you have a particular training need please do get in touch.
There is also some useful material in MANTRA – an online training course developed by the University of Edinburgh (updated August 2015).
Alternatively, some subject-specific guidance booklets have been developed by external experts:

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/staff-directory:
Associate Professor
AP in Computer Science and Cyber Security
MRU- Lecturer in Psychology
Lecturer in International Management and Innovation
Associate Professor of Health Psychology
Professor of Social Work (Practice)/HoD-MH & SW
Lecturer in Chemistry/Biochemistry
Lecturer - Nursing Education Fellow (Adult)
SL in Social Work Practice (Think Ahead Programme)
Associate Lecturer - Practice Learning Fellow (CYP)
Lecturer in Psychology

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/staff-directory/prof-richard-bayford:
Professor of Biophysics & Engineering
School Faculty of Science and Technology
Department Natural Sciences
Location London
His expertise is biomedical imaging, Electrical Impedance Tomography (EIT), Image recognition algorithms, bio-modelling, nanotechnology, Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS), biosensors and VLSI design.
Module leader BMS4177
Also, teaching on BMS3986, BMS3336, BMS4997, BMS2665, BMS4227, BMS4237, BIO2514
Head of Biophysics at the Middlesex University Centre for Investigative Oncology, Head of the Biophysics/Engineering group, Professor of Biophysics and Engineering, Middlesex University and visiting professor, Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, University College London.
Bayford’s expertise is in biomedical imaging, bio-modelling, electrical impedance tomography (EIT), nanotechnology, deep brain stimulation, tele-medical systems, instrumentation and biosensors.
He pioneered the first reconstruction algorithm to image impedance changes inside the human head.
He has worked as PI on many EPSRC, EU and industrial sponsored research projects.
He has a broad research interest covering the areas of the development of bio-models, novel algorithms and instrumentation to image impedance changes in the human head and neonate lung function, development of new multimodality instrumentation for Nanoparticles imaging and therapy, deep brain stimulation, modelling, medical signal processing, tele-medical systems, novel sensors on silicon for bio-medical applications and lab-on-a-chip for bio-makers.
He has published over 300+ journal papers in the above research fields, served as the programme committee member for many international journals and conferences, and supervised over 20 PhD students.
From 2008 to 2013 RB served as the editor-in-chief for Physiological Measurement journal.
He attracted over £13M funding in brain imaging and biophysical measurement technologies from EPSRC, BBSRC and other funding agencies.
He was awarded an H2020 grant as coordinator for 5.5MEuros ( www.craldproject.org ).
He was awarded at EPSRC Bright ideas project and recently EPSRC PNEUMCRIT (£1.8M).
He has been guest editor on three special issues and co-organizer of three conferences on biomedical applications of EIT.
He has been Editor-in-Chief of the IoP Physiological Measurements journal, is a member of the editorial board of the International Journal of Biomedical Imaging, Served as chairs for the Publication committee for IPEM and EFOMP Vice Chair publication and communication.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/staff-directory/dr-andy-bardill:
Professor of Product Design and Engineering
Department Design Engineering & Mathematics
Research Activities
Andy is Professor of Product Design and Engineering and Director of redLoop - a Design and Innovation Centre.
His expertise is in product, service and interaction design, innovation andtechnology development, which he practices with external clients throughredLoop and through collaboration with research colleagues in the universityand wider academic community.
He is an innovator andinveterate collaborator
He has been instrumental in gaining/deliveringon over £8M of Research grant funding including CRADL (€5.5M Horizon 2020), CORLeiT ( £537K UKRI Emergency COVID Funding – MDX/UCL), PNEUMACRIT ( £1.8M EPSRC MDX/UCL/Cambridge), etc.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/staff-directory/dr-frank-hills:
DoP Natural Science/Associate Professor in Cell Biology
After graduating with an honours degree in Biochemistry Dr Hills worked for several years as a Clinical Scientist at St Bartholomew's hospital in London.
He was awarded his PhD in 2002 from the faculty of Medicine at Queen Mary University of London for his work on "The Role of Insulin-like Growth Factors in Disorders of Fetal Growth".
He continued his interest in reproductive science at Imperial College London where he worked as a postdoctoral researcher before joining Middlesex in 2004 as a lecturer.
Dr Hills has published many high profile original research articles on various aspects of obstetric pathology including pre-eclampsia, recurrent miscarriage, preterm labour and fetal distress as well as several articles in the area of assisted reproduction.
Currently, his research interests include investigating the role of growth factors, glycosaminoglycans and proteoglycans on the development of placental pathology and breast cancer alongside an active interest in biomarkers for exercise performance and recovery.
Dr Hills teaches a range of topics in biomedical science including clinical biochemistry, cellular and developmental biology as well as statistical analysis.
He is author of over 40 peer-reviewed scientific articles and has refereed manuscripts for a variety of journals in the area of reproduction and endocrinology

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/staff-directory/dr-lisa-marzano:
Professor in Psychology
Department Psychology
Lisa teaches on a range of undergraduate and postgraduate psychology modules, including introductory psychology and research methods modules, and more specialised mental health, critical forensic and applied social psychology teaching.
She currently supervises three PhD students:
Danny Holmes: Mental Health in Elite Football.
(Supporting Supervisor)
Damon Boughen: Galvanising Communities to Prevent Young Suicide (Director of Studies)
Jude Smit: Students’ lived experiences of attempted suicide in further and higher education.
(Director of Studies)
Lisa Marzano is Professor of Psychology and Co-Director of the Centre for Abuse, Trauma and Suicide Studies (CATS) .
Formerly a Research Fellow at the Oxford University Centre for Suicide Research, Lisa has worked in suicide and self-harm prevention for over two decades, drawing on a variety of methods and disciplinary approaches.
She currently leads an established programme of research focusing on suicides in public locations which has informed a range of preventative initiatives (including the award-winning Small Talk Saves Lives campaign, as well as national and international media guidelines to promote responsible reporting of sui­cide).
In 2019 Lisa was recognised by Universities UK as a “Nation's Lifesaver” for “saving lives and making a life-changing difference to our health and wellbeing”, and received a “Lifesaver Award” from Transport for London.
Education and Qualifications:
2004-2007 PhD in Psychology, Middlesex University, funded by the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC).
2002-2004 MSc in Social Science Research Methods (also satisfying requirements of the MSc in Forensic Psychology), Middlesex University, funded by the ESRC.
1998-2001 BSc (Hons) in Psychology with Criminology, Middlesex University.
Current and Previous Posts:
From 2012 Professor of Psychology (from 2023) and Theme Director for Equity and Improvements in Health and Wellbeing (2022-24), Middlesex University
2007-2012 Postdoctoral Researcher, Centre for Suicide Research, University of Oxford and Research Associate, Green Templeton College, University of Oxford
2005-2010 Guest Psychology Lecturer, Universities of Oxford and Brighton
Advisory and Board Membership Roles:
In addition to providing expert advice on suicide prevention to a range of organisations (e.g.
the Met and British Transport Police, the National Police Chiefs Council and National Crime Agency; the Behavioural Insights Team, Cabinet Office; The Independent Press Standards Organisation; Samaritans; National Highways; ProRail (Netherlands) and Lifeline (Australia)), Lisa is a member of:

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/staff-directory/dr-nicola-payne:
Associate Professor in Psychology
Health psychology interests:
Occupational health psychology interests:
Department ofPsychology Postgraduate Research Lead
Programme leader MSc Clinical Health Psychologyand Wellbeing
MSc module leader: Research: Practice and reporting (research dissertation module)
MSc module leader: Clinicalhealth psychology: perspectives, practice and placement
BSc module leader: Healthpsychology applied to behaviour change
Current PhD supervision
Dr Nicky Payne is an Associate Professor in Psychology, an HCPC Registered Practitioner Health Psychologist, and a Chartered Psychologist and full member of the BPS Division of Health Psychology
Qualifications: BSc (Hons) Psychology (Hertfordshire), MSc Health Psychology (City), PhD (Hertfordshire), PGCertHE (Middlesex)

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/staff-directory/prof-balbir-barn:
Dean - Faculty of Science and Technology
Department S&T School Leadership
Balbir's current research interests include:
Digital Twin research is being done with TCS Research Labs, and has led to a modelling language and technology and an impact case study on DTs.
Balbir has developed multiple modules and programmes in computer science, primarily in the area of model driven software engineering.
Completed PhDs have covered topics in Enterprise Architecture, Modelling Languages, Simulation, and the history of computing.
Professor Balbir Barn is professor of Software Engineering and is the Academic Dean for the Faculty of Science and Technology.
He has held various senior higher educa­tion roles, including as Associate Dean for Business in the former School of Engineering and Information Science and Head of Department at the University of West London.
In these roles, Balbir has led on curriculum design/delivery, quality assurance of education, advancing technology enhanced learning in the curriculum and leading on developing capacity in re­search infrastructure.
Through collaborations with the universities of Southampton and Royal Holloway, Balbir pioneered the use of mobile technology for practice-based learning in social work and nursing.
T
Balbir has an international reputation in software engineering and has extensive commercial research experience working on model driven software engineering in research centres at Texas Instruments and Sterling Software as well as leading on funded academic research (over £2.5 million).
He has also provided consultancy to prestigious clients such as JP Mor­gan Chase and JISC.
Balbir’s work is multi-disciplinary and he is working with criminologists and sociologists in applying technology to tackle social challenges such as surveillance and cyber-crime and in social media research.
The recently completed MAYOT (Mobile Apps for Youth Offending Teams) project is being evaluated by several youth offending services in Wales and England.
Balbir has published over 130 peer-reviewed papers in leading interna­tional conferences and journals.
Since 2012, Balbir has been collaborating with  TCS Research India to develop key advances in Digital Twin technology.
His research in Digital Twins is recognised through research, consultancy (with the UK Home Office) and several keynote presentations at leading international conference in software engineering.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/staff-directory/prof-juan-carlos-augusto:
Professor of Computer Science
Department Computer Science
My research interests are related to technical areas usually referred as Context-Aware Computing, Ambient Intelligence, Ambient Assisted Living, Intelligent Environments, Smart Environments, Pervasive Computing, Ubiquitous Computing, Person-Centric Computing, Internet of Things, sensor-based computing, Smart Classrooms, Smart Campus, Smart Cities, etc.
Through my work I have advocated in the scientific community to move from a more gadgets-centred concept of environment automation into a more user-centred one.
As a result of my research work, I have contributed to more than 280 peer-reviewed publications.
A substantial part of which are articles in scientific journals and also edited landmark books such as the Handbook on Ambient Intelligence and Smart Environments (Springer, 2009), the Handbook on Ambient Assisted Living (IOS Press, 2012), the Handbook of Smart Cities (Springer, 2021), and the Smart Health Handbook (Sage/IOS Press, 2025).
Training of Postgraduate Researchers is another activity which I am very enthusiastic about and so far  I have been part of the supervisory team for fifteen Ph.D.
candidates (ten as Director of Studies) and directed nine M.Sc.
by Research projects.
The assessment of innovation skills acquired by postgraduate researchers is also a substantial part of academic and so far I have been I have been External Examiner in vivas for twenty-three PhD candidates in various countries.
I am happy to consider students with very good performance wishing to enrol in a Ph.D.
program and train as researchers in any of these areas or in topics with a clear relation to these.
Contact me to discuss possible topics and the whole application process in general.
Engagement and Impact
An important part of research and innovation is the dissemination of knowledge and I have been regularly invited to explain our innovation and personal views on certain technical topics.
As a result, I have provided many conference and workshop keynotes, tutorials, short courses for MSc programmes and Summer Schools, as well as research seminars at Universities or other Institutions.
Along my career I have been invited to be part of fourteen Advisory Groups/Panels and at international level, I serve on a yearly basis in EU panels and have been called to review for National Funding bodies at eleven different countries.
I am part of national Working Groups developing activities to interface between innovation and society in my area of expertise and have also been an active member of several professional societies such as ACM, IEEE, AAAI and BCS.
Other roles where I support science and innovation are:
* Editorial Board of the Journal on Universal Access in the Information Society (Springer).
* Editor in Chief of the Book Series on Ambient Intelligence and Smart Environments (Sage/IOS Press)
* Co-Editor in Chief of the Journal on Ambient Intelligence and Smart Environments (Sage/IO(S Press)
* Co-Editor in Chief of the Journal on Reliable Intelligent Environments
* Editor in Chief of the Journal on on Smart Cities and Society (Sage/IOS Press)
Throughout my career I worked at four different Universities in three different countries and I have experienced a diversity of working environments, colleagues and student groups.
At a technical level I work in an area which combines various subdisciplines within CS so I also build bridges between colleagues from different specialized technical communities, nourishing from that diversity of social and technical communities.
In total I have taught twenty-two different modules within the speciality of Computer Science.
Currently I am teaching at the following:
"Advanced Topics in Computer Science" (CMT4040)
"Information Systems Quality Management" (CST4310)
A substantial part of delivering education is also achieved by directing Final Year Projects from Computer Science, Data Science, IT and BIS courses.
I am also Postgraduate Researchers Lead which requires assesment of applicants, following the progression of their projects through their programme, as well as organizing and delivering training sessions.
As a continuation of my M.Sc.
in Higher Education Practice I also continue the exploration of technology assisted innovation for education.
Programmer (1982), System Analyst (1985), Licentiate in Computer Science (1992), Ph.D.
in Computer Science (1998), M.Sc.
in Higher Education Practice (2009).
My scientific heritage connects me to a number of distinguished computer scientists, mathematicians, logicians and philosophers, which can be traced back to Charles Sanders Peirce.
Through my PhD training I absorbed that strong technical foundation and a professional ethos focused around truth and accuracy in research.
My research is focused on having a more visible impact in the real world.
I am interested in developing innovation of services supported by the use of sensing devices.
If you want to know more about my experience and work (including downloadable publications and Ph.D.
opportunities) check this other web page for more details.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/staff-directory/prof-lian-lundy:
Professor of Environmental Science
Sources, behaviour and fate of urban pollutants
Nature based solutions
Decision support tools
Wastewater surveillance
Environmental pollution control
Environmental principles and risks
Environmental policy
Water, sanitation and hygiene
Current PhD students
Omotayo Ayeni Method development for the determination of tyre wear particles inenvironmental samples using a triple quadrupole high-performance liquidchromatography-mass spectrometry (with Dr Huw Jones and Dr Leonardo PantojaMunoz)
Sarah Lindfors The speciation of metals inrainfall runoff and snow melt events (with Professor Maria Viklander and DrHelene Österlund, Lulea Technical University, Sweden)
Lina Otte Impact of stormwater on ground water quality (with Professor Maria Viklander and Dr Alexandra Muller, Lulea Technical University, Sweden)
Ana Barcot Novel use of bioresources for stormwater storage (with Dr Sofia Larsson, Professor Staffan Lundstrom and Professor Maria Viklander, Lulea Technical University, Sweden)
With25 years’ experience in sustainable urban water management, my researchfocuses on the quality and treatment of urban stormwater runoff using a rangeof nature-based solutions, working collaboratively with practitioners andpolicy-makers to ensure research outputs are both useful and useable.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/staff-directory/dr-meri-juntti:
Associate Professor of Environmental Governance
School Faculty of Business and Law
Department Law and Social Sciences
Sustainable Rural Development
My research on this theme has focussed on the way that European agri-environmental policy and the UN Convention on combatting desertification are implemented and how this influences policy compliance.
Findings point to the benefits of deliberative implementation practice and policysolutions that integrate land managers’ knowledge and practical knowhow asessential to functional and effective environmental policy (e.g.
Juntti andPotter 2002; Juntti and Wilson 2005; Juntti 2012; Juntti and Downward 2017).
Ihave since worked on RICS and RTPI funded projects on the impact of land-basedinvestment on rural communities, environment and economies and the ability of ruralplanning to further environmentalconservation, biodiversity and ecosystem services provision (e.g.
Gallent etal.
2019; Livingstone et al.
2019).
An ongoing project funded by the British Councilfocuses on the scope for digitally supported urban agriculture to further resiliencein cities in the UK and Vietnam.
Urban nature
I've had three externally funded projects where I've developed the notion of ‘experienced environmental quality’ to better represent theactual benefits (and at times harms) that urban nature has the potential toyield for urban communities.
A key aim has been to render this experiential knowledge visiblealongside scientific evidence in urban planning, in order to further urbanenvironmental justice.
Peer reviewed publications from this work have centredon proof of concept and a new epistemology (Juntti and Lundy 2017), lessonsfrom the global south for research and planning (Juntti et al.
2021) factors influencing the realisation of the benefits of urban nature in the complex urban context and implications for good practice in research andplanning (Juntti and Ozsezer-Kurnuc 2023) and the role of planning institutions andpractices in equal and fair access to the benefits of urban nature (Juntti etal.
under review).
I’ve worked with London Development Trust to publishguidance for Local Authorities, Housing Developers and other stakeholders(Juntti and Ozsezer-Kurnuc 2022 https://ldtgroup.org.uk/social-impact-of-urban-nature-in-regeneration/ ).
I lead the MA Global Governance and Sustainable Development.
I lead the followingmodules:
-         SSC4604 global governance for sustainabledevelopment
-         SSC4606/PRS4530 environmental law and governance
-         SSC4994 dissertation
I presently supervisetwo PhD students :
Arzoo Hassan – Recognition justice in flood risk management
Manasa Sarawan – Climate change adaptation strategies of theIrular people: an intersectional analysis
I am the Academic Integrity Tutor of the Department of Lawand Social Sciences
I deliver Carbon Literacy Training (®Manchester Metropolitan University) in the Departments of Natural Sciences and Law and Social Sciences.
The main aim of my teaching and research is to support thenecessary societal transformation for sustainability.
My research focusses on environmentalgovernance, more specifically the manner in which the environment and environmentalvalues are represented in policy and planning and how this influences governance outcomes.
My empirical work spans the two thematic areas of sustainable rural development and urban nature.
I am the co-leader of the Sustainable Development Research Cluster and a memberof the University’s Environmental Steering Group.
I hold an honorary position inthe Bartlett School of Planning at UCL and am a member of the Board of Trusteesof the London Development Trust.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/staff-directory/prof-sally-priest:
Deputy Dean - Research and Knowledge Exchange
Sally undertakes many research and knowledge exchange activitiesinvestigating the impacts of flooding and how these can be reduced.
She hasexplored a diverse range of flooding issues including: the benefits of floodwarning, the potential for risk to life from flooding, flood vulnerability,risk communication, benefit appraisal, flood risk governance and the currentand future viability of flood risk insurance, and therefore has a good overallappreciation of many areas of flood risk management.
Through various projectsshe has linked socio-economics with hazard modelling and developed variousflood risk assessment methodologies (risk to life, flood recovery, impacts of householddisplacement) and has studied the health impacts of flooding.
Sally leads themethodological development of non-property damage data and methodologies of the Multi-coloured Manual suite whichincludes approaches for estimating the benefits of preventing flood disruptionto utility and transport networks and to other institutions such as schools andhospitals.
Specific areas of researchinterest and competency:
Knowledge exchange
An externally recognised flood risk management expert Sallyis repeatedly called upon by national and international floodpolicymakers/practitioners for her expert opinion; fulfilling invitationalroles on steering committees, advisory groups and undertaking governmental peerreview.
Recently, for the Environment Agency (EA) she undertook a criticalreview of approaches to measure and monitor flood resilience which is beingadopted nationwide.
Since 2016, she has also served as an invited member of theJoint Defra/EA Flood and Coastal Risk Management R&D Programme setting theagenda for directing flood risk management practice.
She was also an invitedexpert on the Ambition group to deliver the English National Flood RiskManagement Strategy to 2100.
Published in 2020 this the key document settingthe direction for flood risk management for the next 80 years.
Sally currently provides research-led teaching to a range ofdifferent programmes at undergraduate and post-graduate level (e.g.
OccupationalSafety and Health; Environmental Health, Public Health, Sustainability andEnvironmental Management, Global Governance and Sustainable Development).
Her teachingfocusses on three core subject areas: sustainability, flood risk governance andthe impacts of floods on human health.
Additionally, she brings utilises her research experience to teach researchmethods to students to prepare them for their projects.
Sally has supervised four PhD students to completion and iscurrently supervising another four doctoral students:
Professor Sally Priest is both Deputy Dean for Research andKnowledge Exchange in the Faculty of Science and Technology and Head of theFlood Hazard Research Centre.
She hasover 20 years’ experience researching the socio-economic aspects of flood risk,utilising both qualitative and quantitative research approaches.
Linking to twoof Middlesex University’s Themes of Sustainabilityof Communities and the Environment and Equityand Improvements in Health and Wellbeing , her applied research sits at theinterface of flood risk research and the allied fields of risk management andpractice, working on developing solutions for creating safer and moresustainable communities.
Sally frequently undertakes research for government organisationsthe outputs of which are utilised to inform public policy and practice.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/staff-directory/prof-dave-lewis:
Professor Employment Law
Whistleblowing law and practice
Remedies for unfair dismissal
Disqualification from social security benefits
Currently teaching Employment Law but have previously taught International Whistleblowing Law and Practice as a postgraduate module.
Current  supervision of two doctoral students
I have an undergraduate law degree and an MA in Industrial Relations.
I have been a member of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development since 1972.
In addition to writing textbooks on Employment Law, I have been researching the subject of employment protection for whistleblowers since1994 and have published internationally in law, business ethics, informationtechnology and human resource management journals.
I have  considerableexperience as a consultant for the European Commission, Council of Europe, OECDand UN Office on Drugs and Crime.
I have given expert evidence (inter alia) to theBudgetary Control Committee of the European Parliament and the UK Committee onStandards in Public Life.
(see also website profile and full cv)

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/staff-directory/dr-leandro-sepulveda-ramirez:
Associate Professor in Socioeconomic Development
Department Centre for Enterprise, Environment and Development Research
Small business and enterprise; entrepreneurship; migrant enterprises and entrepreneurs; social enterprise and the social economy; diversity and economic development; informal economy.
MGT3180 – Enterprise and Small Business
Dr Leandro Sepulveda is an Associate Professor at the Centre for Enterprise and Economic Development Research (CEEDR), Middlesex University Business School.
He has nearly twenty years’ experience on research specialising in enterprise, entrepreneurship and social and economic development.
His current research interests include enterprise and entrepreneurship among migrants and ethnic minorities; social enterprise support programmes; population diversity and economic development, and small business development and policy in developed and developing countries.
His work in the UK and Europe has been commissioned by public agencies including the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (former BIS), the Office for Civil Society (OCS), research councils such as the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC), non-profit organisations such as the School for Social Entrepreneurs and Innovation Exchange which provide ‘start-up’ and ‘scale-up’ support for entrepreneurs.
Leandro worked in Latin America as an external consultant for the United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC-UN) and Senior Researcher at the National University of General Sarmiento (UNGS - Institute of Industries) in Argentina, and is currently leading on a project funded by the European Commission (H2020-MSCA-RISE) comprising nine universities in Latin America (Argentina, Brazil, Chile and Uruguay) and ten across Europe (Finland, France, Italy, Spain, UK).
Overall the research projects which Leandro has lead and/or been involved in are committed to supporting and promoting equality and diversity in research particularly in relation to sensitive variables such as gender, nationality, age, ethnicity, religion and culture as well as socio-economic background.
Leandro is a native Spanish speaker and he also has a good working knowledge of Portuguese.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/staff-directory/dr-bianca-stumbitz:
Senior Research Fellow
-  Maternity and paternity at work (maternity protection, family-friendlypolicies and practices, including breastfeeding and childcare support)
-  Equality and diversity issues in the labour market (age, gender,ethnicity), as well as working conditions and wellbeing at work more broadly.
-  (Social) entrepreneurship
-  Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and the informal sector
-  Low- and middle-income countries (LMICs)
Bianca is a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy (FHEA).
Her Teachinginterests include qualitative research methods; small business and (social and gendered) entrepreneurship; equality, diversity and inclusion; and HRM.
PhD Research Training
HRM4030 - Research Methods
HRM3011 - Contemporary Issues in HRM
HRM4415 - Research Methods
SOC4100 - Research Design and Ethics
MGT3999 - Research Project
MGT3193 - Business Start-Ups
MGT2321-6/MGT2421 -Principles of Innovation and Entrepreneurship
My key research interests include diversity and inclusion in theworkplace, with an emphasis on gender and work-family related issues, as wellas working conditions more broadly.
I have specialist knowledge on the subjectof maternity and paternity workplace policies and practices across the world,and have recently undertaken related research in Ghana, South Africa andMalaysia.
I am currently Principal Investigator on a three-year ESRC-fundedstudy on the Transition to Parenthood in UK SMEs, in collaboration with WorkingFamilies and the Fatherhood Institute.
In another current study I am exploringawareness of menopause symptoms and workplace support in the higher educationcontext.
A further key stream of my work is related to socialenterprise.
Recent projects include studies on the role of communitybusinesses in providing health and wellbeing services and ‘good work’, and onalternative social enterprise models for delivering health and social carepublic services.
Funders of my work have included the International LabourOrganization, the World Health Organization, UNICEF and the EuropeanCommission.
As part of my work, I have been advising multiple stakeholders,including employers, trade unions, government departments, internationalorganizations and NGOs.
I co-lead the Middlesex University Gender &Diversity Research Cluster, the International Committee of the US-based Workand Family Researchers Network, and I am a member of the Maternity ProtectionCommittee of the German Federal Ministry of Family Affairs, Senior Citizens,Women and Youth.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/staff-directory/dr-andrea-werner:
Associate Professor of Business Ethics
Department Strategy, Leadership & Operations
The Living Wage in the context of business ethics and Corporate Social Responsibility
Sustainable Fashion Entrepreneurship
The influence of civil society on responsible business practice
The moral experience of managers and company directors
Business ethics in small and medium-sized enterprises
Corporate governance and business ethics/corporate responsibility
The use of social theory in business ethics/corporate responsibility research
Cross-national research in business ethics and corporate responsibility
MGT3023 Business Ethics - Module leader and tutor
MGT4804 Cross-cultural Management and Ethics - Module tutor
Postgraduate Research Supervision
completed:
·      Simon Dwight (2023) The Transformation,Expansion and Success of a Homelessness Charity DProf by Public Works, Role:Second Supervisor
·      Hermann Högel (2023) ‘The Influence ofManager Qualities and Executive Board Composition on the Performance of GermanCooperative Banks’, Role: Second Supervisor
·      Adeyemi Adelekan (2021) ‘InstitutionalWork of Social Entrepreneurs in Nigeria’, Role: Second Supervisor
·       KienDo (2019) ‘Factors Influencing Corporate Social Responsibility in VietnameseCompanies’, Role: Third Supervisor
ongoing:
·       Safia Minney, DProf by Public Works, Role: Director of Studies
·       Gwen Stirling Wilkie, DProf by Public Works, Role: Director of Studies
·       Mike Kelly, DProf, Developinga strategic response to the UK Government’s proposed changes to theadministration of summary justice in England Wales Role: Director ofStudies
·      Michael Cardoso ‘The exercising ofleadership within church settings’, Role: Second Supervisor
Dr Andrea Werner is an Associate Professor of Business Ethics and has been working at the Business School since 2008.
Prior to joining Middlesex University, she worked as a Researcher for the Institute of Business Ethics in London.
Andrea co-leads the cross-disciplinary Business Ethics, Accountability and Governance research cluster based in the Business School and is the Research and Knowledge Exchange Leader in the Strategy, Leadership and Operations Department.
Her research interests include ethics and social responsibility in small businesses, the real Living Wage, Sustainable Fashion entrepreneurship, and the link between ethics and accountability in business organisations.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/staff-directory/dr-tim-freeman:
Professor of Leadership
Link to Researchgate citations; link to Google Scholar citations
My research interests include:
Organisational leadership, especially in relation to governance and the ‘performance’ of leadership within executive boards; Health service evaluation and improvement; and Migrant health and welfare (UK and international).
Interests
Research methodology, Critical Management Studies, Governance, Leadership and identity.
Tim is an experienced doctoral supervisor and keen to take on additional doctoral candidates in any of these areas.
Modules
Module leader LWO4810 (MBA) 'Leadership' (2014- )
Module leader HRM 2004 'Work, organisation and society' (2014-17 )
Module leader HRM 3009 'Management Development and Leadership (Fast-track)' (2013-17 )
Module tutor Business School PhD Research Methods Programme (2014-17 )
Module tutor HRM2007 'Work, Organisation and Society' (2018-)
Module tutor on Postgraduate Certificate in Leadership and Management
Tim has over 30 years of research experience.
His research explores issues of public service delivery, policy and governance, and his current and recent funded projects and publications have an economic development emphasis, in relation to migrant communities within the UK and global south.
He publishes widely in highly-ranked academic journals within the disciplines of Sociology, Public Policy, and Organisational Studies.
He has held Research Grants from the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC), British Council, National Institute for Heath Research (NIHR) and National Audit Office (NAO) amongst many others.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/staff-directory/prof-fergus-lyon:
Director of CEEDR
Social Enterprise and Social Entrepreneurship
Sustainable Business Models
Natural capital and payment for ecosystem services
SMEs, Entrepreneurship and Business Support
Trust, Networks and Clustering of Enterprises
Markets and Entrepreneurship in Delivery of Public Services
Market Institutions and Poverty in Less Developed Countries
Relationships between SMEs and the Scientific Community
Joanna Paulynn Kitchen (ongoing); Numbers, negotiations and networks:  Exploring the role of calculative practice in the transition towards sustainability.
Ambrose Massaquoi (ongoing); Faith at work in social entrepreneurship.
Adeyemi Adelekan(Completed - Director of Studies); Exploring the circular economy strategies of social enterprises: A case study of organisations in Nigeria's solid waste recycling sector.
Maria Irurita  (Completed - Director of Studies); Innovation and Learning in social enterprises.
Abdullah Al-Faruq (Completed - Director of Studies);  Social enterprises in Bangladesh.
Anthony Ayakwah (Completed - Director of Studies); Internationalisation and SME clusters in Ghana.
Isaac Amoako (Completed - Director of Studies); SME Exporting Determinants: The Power of Institutions on Networking and Performance in a developing country.
Bianca Stumbitz  (Completed - Director of Studies); Older Social Entrepreneurs and the life course.
Mark McPherson (Completed - Director of Studies); Inter-generational Differences within Ethnic Minority Enterprises: A Comparison of Sikh and Pakistani Muslim Businesses.
Vitor Braga (Completed- Second Supervisor); Networking in Portuguese SMEs: Evidence from Large Event Organisers and Furniture Industries.
Teaching and Pedagogic interests:
Social enterprise and social entrepreneurship
Entrepreneurship, business support and regeneration
Business, international development and conflict
Qualitative research methods and analysis
Research project design
Participatory research methodologies for social and natural/biological scientists
Learning through participatory workshops and field research
Outputs- manual of research methods, briefing notes and published handouts for research students
Fergus Lyon is a Professor of Enterprise and Organisations in the Centre for Enterprise, Environment and Development Research, Middlesex University in London and Deputy Director of the ESRC Centre for the Understanding of Sustainable Prosperity.
His research interests include social and sustainable enterprises, agri-food, sustainable fashion, clustering and networks of enterprises, ethnic minority enterprise, and enterprise support policy.
Recent funders include the Economic and Social Research Council, Natural Environment Research Council, Arts and Humanities Research Council, Research England, Dept of Digital, Culture, Media and Sport, Food Farming and Countryside Commission, European Commission, International Labour Organisation, and a number of charities.
He was the social enterprise lead on the £10m Third Sector Research Centre funded over five years by ESRC and Office for Civil Society.
Previously he has carried out research in Bhutan, Ghana, India, Nepal, Nigeria, and Pakistan.
He has been a trustee/director of a number social enterprises related to preschool education, conservation and farming.
Fergus has over 150 publications including 50 substantial reports for policy makers funded by UK and international donors, 30 papers in established international journals, 25 book chapters, a number of shorter policy briefings and two books on social research methodologies.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/staff-directory/prof-philip-leach:
Professor of Human Rights Law
International human rights law and practice.
Human rights redress and implementation.
Council of Europe; European Court of Human Rights.
Right to life; human rights in conflict and post-conflict situations.
Human rights in Russia and FSU region.
International Human Rights Law (ug)
International Human Rights Litigation (pg)
PhD supervision and examination
Philip Leach is Professor of Human RightsLaw at Middlesex University in London.
Until March 2022 he was Director of the European Human Rights Advocacy Centre (EHRAC) also based at Middlesex University, which litigates human rights casesarising in Russia, Ukraine, Georgia, Azerbaijan and Armenia.
He researches andpublishes widely in the field of international human rights law and practice.He is author of ‘Taking a Case to the European Court of Human Rights’, 4 th ed., Oxford University Press, 2017 and ‘Parliaments and the European Court ofHuman Rights’ (co-authored with Dr.
Alice Donald), Oxford University Press,2016.
Philip is Co-Supervisor of the Turkey Human Rights LitigationSupport Project and Vice-Chair of the EuropeanImplementation Network (EIN).
He was a member of the Independent AdvisoryPanel on Deaths in Custody from 2009-2015 and a member of the Independent Reviewinto Self-inflicted Deaths in NOMS Custody of 18-24 year olds from 2014 to 2015.
He wasappointed Specialist Adviser to the Joint Committee on Human Rights for itsinquiry into mental health and deaths in prison in 2016-2017.
He is a member of Matrix Chambers, London.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/staff-directory/dr-alice-donald:
Professor in Human Rights Law
Alice's research lies in the field of human rights implementation and the relationship between human rights and democracy, with a focus on the role of parliaments and the European Convention on Human Rights.
She also writes regularly on the Human Rights Act 1998 and the UK's relationship with the ECHR system.
In 2024, Alice is co-coordinator of the Multi-Country Study as part of the Council of Europe’s Project on Support for efficient domestic capacity for the execution of European Court of Human Rights Judgments.
Module leader: Year 2 LLB – UK and European Human Rights Law
Module leader: LLM – European Human Rights Law and Practice
Tutor: LLM - International Human Rights Law
Tutor: MA - Sustainable Development and Human Rights
Senior Fellow of the Higher Education Academy
Leadership positions
Postgraduate Research Degrees Coordinator for Law
Director of Research for Law
Dr Alice Donald is Professor of Human Rights Law in the Department of Law and Social Sciences.
Her research focuses on human rights implementation and the relationship between human rights and democratic governance, with a focus on the role of Parliaments.
Alice previously worked as a commissioner, editor, broadcast journalist and journalism trainer at the BBC World Service (1991-2005).

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/staff-directory/prof-betsy-thom:
Professor
School Faculty of Health, Social Care and Education
Department Mental Health & Social Work
Research interests include drug and alcohol policy and practice issues and the cultural uses of alcohol/ drugs; mental health and substance use.
Currently, specific emphasis on - young people and substance use; substance use and BAME groups, drug-related deaths.
My social science background is a good basis for working with social workers and nurses.
Currently collaborating on a new NIHR application 'The impact of Simulation Training on Skills, Staff Wellbeing, Retention and Quality of Care among Adult Social Care Staff’.
I am predominantly a qualitative researcher.
Current/ recent research projects:
·       Thom B.
(joint lead Fiona Spargo-Mabbs DSMF; co-applicants: Karen Duke and Camille Alexis- Garsee) Developing and evaluating a multi-component drug education programme Phase 1,Funded NIHR.
Phase 2 application submitted)
(co-applicant; CGL lead; with Karen Duke) Evaluating CGL's Derbyshire 1625 service's impact on reducing demand for drugs amongst young people and young adults (aged 16-25) and improving wider health and social outcomes: a multi-stakeholder preparatory project .
Phase 1, Funded NIHR.
(joint PI with Trish Hafford-Letchfield, Strathclyde University) Review of university student drug use .
Funded UNITE and UUK, 2022.
(co-applicant), O’Gorman A.
(PI, Univ.
West of Scotland); Whittaker A.
(Stirling Univ.); Munro A.
(Dundee Univ.); Mercer S.
(Edinburgh Univ.); Robertson R.
(Edinburgh Univ.); Mohan A.
(Dundee Univ).
Understanding the Role and Potential of Primary Care in the Prevention of Drug Deaths post COVID-19 .
Funded: Drug Deaths Task Force, Scottish Government 2020-2021.
Thom B.
(PI with Karen Duke) 3 rd .
EU Health programme (CHAFEA).
EPPIC: Exchanging Prevention practices on Polydrug use among youth in Criminal justice systems.
2017- 2020.
Middlesex project co-ordinator
Currently supervising eight doctoral students across social work and nursing and thirteen master students.
Teaching on research methods to post-graduate students (NIP2802, NSA4050, WBH4760).
Betsy Thom is co-director of the Drug and Alcohol Research Centre.
She is a sociologist with a background in medical sociology and health studies and with a focus on alcohol and drug research, She has conducted research funded by the EU, national funding organisations, charities and local authorities.
Past activities include acting as editor-in-chief for Drugs: education, prevention and policy for over 20 years, consultancy work for UNODC, the UN and the Commonwealth Institute, and participating in research advisory boards and research funding activities.
She is currently an Honorary Professor in the Department of Psychology and Behavioural Sciences, Aarhus University, Denmark and the Co-ordinator for the UK chapter of the International Society of Substance Use Professionals (ISSUP).
A key area of her research is young people, risk and substance use, and current work has included research on school-based prevention programmes and university students' substance use.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/staff-directory/dr-karen-duke:
Professor in Criminology
Prior to joining Middlesex, I worked as a researcher in the Home Office Research and Planning Unit and was involved in two major studies on refugee settlement in Britain.
Since then, my research has focused on the following areas: the interface between drugs and criminal justice policy; drugs and alcohol policy in prisons; the relationship between research and policy; harm reduction in prisons; the shift towards 'recovery' in drugs policy and practice; stakeholders in addictions policy and substance use prevention and young people.
I have conducted research and undertaken consultancy for the Home Office, Department of Health, former Central Drugs Co-ordination Unit (Cabinet Office), Ministry of Justice, National Institute for Health Research (NIHR), the Royal Society for the Arts, United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) and the European Commission (FP7 ALICE RAP , Addicton and Lifestyles in Contemporary Europe: Reframing Addictions Project and EPPIC: Exchanging prevention practices on polydrug use among youth in criminal justice systems 2017-2020 EPPIC project ).
I am Co-Director of the Drug and Alcohol Research Centre and joint Editor-in-Chief of the peer reviewed journal: Drugs: education, prevention and policy .
I am also the Research Leader for Criminology and Sociology and co-ordinated our REF 2021 submission for Social Policy and Social Work UoA20.
My main areas of teaching are in the areas of drugs and criminal justice.
I am the  Module Leader for CRM 4618 Drugs and Crime (Distance Learning) and CRM 3704 Drugs, Crime and Control.
I also lead sessions on CRM1270 Crime in Social Context, CRM 2274 Prisons and Penology and CRM 4613 Criminal Justice, Courts and Prisons.
I supervise undergraduate and MA dissertation students and MPhil/PhD students across a range of topics.
I am a Senior Fellow of the Higher Education Academy.
Professional Memberships:
Fellow of the Royal Society for the Arts (FRSA)
Fellow of the Cambridge Commonwealth Trust Society
Senior Fellow of Higher Education Academy
Member of the International Society for the Study of Drug Policy, European Society for Social Drug Research, European Society of Criminology, American Society of Criminology, the British Society of Criminology, and the Social Policy Association.
Trustee for the criminal justice charity, Revolving Doors.
Title: PhD in Criminology
Institution: Middlesex University, UK
Title: MPhil in Criminology
Institution: University of Cambridge, UK
Title: BA (Hon) in Sociology
Institution: University of Saskatchewan, Canada

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/staff-directory/dr-helen-gleeson:
Research Fellow in Social Work / Social Policy
Drug and alcohol related research, including treatment experiences of marginalised groups, substance use and interventions within the criminal justice system
Young people in the youth justice system, diversion and intervention
Young people and families within social work services
Module lead for SWK2203 Approaches to Health and Social Care Research
Supervisor on Think Ahead (Mental Health Social Worker MA programme)
Co-supervisor for PhD and DProf students
Dr Helen Gleeson is a research fellow in the Department of Mental Health and Social Work where she has worked since 2016.
Shereceived her PhD in psychology from National University of Ireland, Galway in2013 where her thesis explored the relationships between young people and thepolice in Ireland.
Through her research she has worked with local authorities, youth offending services, NHS services and partners on evaluation studies, systematic reviews and evidence reports.
Title: PGCE - Higher Education
Date: 30 Jun 2018
Institution: Middlesex University
Title: PhD (psychology)
Notes: Thesis title: 'Young people's attitudes towards the police in Ireland: A mixed methods study'
Date: 20 Nov 2013
Institution: National University of Ireland, Galway
Title: HDip (Psychology)
Date: 30 Jun 2009
Title: BA Hons (English and Psychological Studies)
Date: 30 Jun 2008

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/staff-directory/dr-lee-jerome:
Professor in Education (Childhood and Society)
Department Education
I explore three main themes in my research and writing:
Citizenship education
I have published work on the development of citizenship education policy , the establishment of citizenship education as a new curriculum subject in England and deliberation as a pedagogic approach .
I am on the editorial group of Teaching Citizenship , the journal of the Association for Citizenship Teaching, and editor of Education, Citizenship and Social Justice .
I have also researched character education and the Prevent Duty in education , and am currently conducting research on how to promote active citizenship through schools in the National Citizenship Education Survey .
Children's rights
I led a Rights Respecting PGCE at London Metropolitan University, in which the principles of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child were established as a foundation for the teacher education course.
I continued to explore this theme in my work at the Centre for Children's Rights at Queen's University Belfast, where I led the MA Children's Rights and coordinated an international research project to establish a baseline assessment of child rights education (CRE) across 26 countries .
With Hugh Starkey I have published a book on ' Children's Rights Education in Diverse Classrooms '.
Teacher education
Having taught on teacher education courses for a number of years I maintain an interest in this area.
I coordinate the Special Interest Group on Professional Education and Partnerships at Middlesex and continue to run short courses and training for colleagues in a range of educational issues.
I have published on teacher standards , teachers' agency and with Marcus Bhargava I published a book on teachers' medium term planning .
I'm interested in exploring these three themes through research, consultancy, professional collaborations and through postgraduate supervision, so if you have an idea, please get in touch.
I teach on the MA Childhood and Education in Diverse Societies undergraduate research methods and supervise individual dissertations and doctoral theses.
I also contribute to the doctoral training programme and chair the faculty ethics committee.
I am interested in supervising students working in the following areas and would welcome conversations with prospective doctoral students:
Current doctoral students are investigating professional education in social work; mentoring in secondary schools; children's rights in school; and employability in HE.
I am a Professor of Citizenship and Children's Rights Education at Middlesex University, where I teach and work with colleagues in the Centre for Educational Research and Scholarship (CERS) to build research capacity.
I have worked in schools, charities and higher education for the past thirty years, starting as a teacher of history and sociology in London secondary schools.
I then became Education Director at the Institute for Citizenship, and subsequently moved into the university sector where I have taught on a variety of undergraduate, postgraduate and professional courses in traditional face to face classrooms and on-line environments.
I gained my PhD in Citizenship Education Policy in 2012 from the Institute of Education in London.
I also have an MA in History of Colonial and Post-Colonial Societies, from Birkbeck College, a PGCE in Social Studies and a BSc in Politics and Sociology.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/staff-directory/prof-jayne-osgood:
Professor in Education (Early Years)
Childhood Studies; gender & sexualities; creative methodologies; affect theory; critical posthumanism; ecofeminism/ ecopedagogies
Doctoral Supervision (20 to completion, currently supervising 5 PhDs)·
Doctoral Supervisor Training
Researcher Development Workshops
Writing for Publication Workshops
MA Childhood Studies
MA Gender & Sexualities
Guest Lecturing BA in Education Studies
Guest Lecturing BA in Early Childhood Studies
Jayne Osgood is Professor of Childhood Studies at the Centre for Education Research & Scholarship, Middlesex University.
Her work addresses issues of worldly justice through critical engagement with policy, curricular frameworks, and pedagogical approaches in Early Childhood Education & Care.
She is committed to extending understandings of the workforce, families, gender and sexualities, ‘child’, and ‘childhood’ in early years contexts through creative, affective methodologies.
She has published extensively within the post- modernist paradigm with over 100 publications in the form of books, chapters and journal papers, her most recent books include: Postdevelopmental Approaches to Play (2025); Gender Un/bound: Traversing Educational Possibilitie s (2024); Postdevelopmental Approaches to Childhood Research Observation (2023); Feminists Researching Gendered Childhoods (2019); and Postdevelopmental Approaches to Childhood Art (2019).
She has served on the editorial boards of various journals and is a long-standing board member at Contemporary Issues in Early Childhood .
She is recently retired as Editor of Gender & Education and continues to edit Reconceptualising Education Research Methodology .
She is also Book Series Editor for both Bloomsbury ( Feminist Thought in Childhood Research ; and Postdevelopmental Approaches to Childhood ) and Springer ( Keythinkers in Education ).
Research Funding/Project Management
In preparation AHRC: Making Odd Kin: Towards Child-Multispecies Flourishing in the Anthropocene
2025: AHRC: Unruly Toddler Bodies Network (with MMU, Sheffield Hallam).
2024: HEI Funding: Multispecies Flourishing: early childhood relationalities to minibeasts.
www.minibeasts.org (PI)
2020: GCRF: Decolonising Children's Play in  Sub-Saharan Africa www.dlalaproject.com
2019: ‘BioSocioCultural Inclusion in Educational Spaces: International Articulations for New Theories and Research Practices’ (Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile).
2017: Cambridge University Research & Development Fund: MUSICEUM scoping study
2017: HEI Funding: Diversity & Difference in Early Childhood pilot study
2016: TACTYC: The future for Qualifications and Training in Early Childhood Education.
2015: Middlesex University: (K)not-knowing: Children’s Entanglements with Diversity through Celebrations, Festivals & Events
2014: London Borough of Camden: Evaluation of the ‘White Working-class’ Achievement Pilot
2012: European Commission: SIRIUS Research Network (Research on Children from a Migrant Background)
2011: ESRC Education & Culture Seminar Series.
2011: Youth Music: Engaging Hard-to-Reach Families in Early Years Music-Making
2009: Royal Borough of Kensington & Chelsea: Evaluation of a Pilot Sleep Clinic
2008: General Teaching Council for England: CPD for Supply Teachers.
2007: Sure Start North West Kensington & Golborne: Parent Consultation Exercise
2006: Sure Start North West Kensington & Golborne: Parenting Programme Evaluation
2006: Royal Borough of Kensington & Chelsea: researching family support I: Evidence Paper & Literature Review on Parenting Support Programmes
2006: Royal Borough of Kensington & Chelsea: researching family support II: Evaluating Cheyne Home Visiting Service.
2005: Sure Start Golborne: Home Visiting Service Evaluation
2005: £18K Sure Start North West Kensington: Home Visiting Service Evaluation (PI)
2003: £25K Equal Opportunities Commission: Gender Equality and Work Experience (CI)
2003: European Social Fund: Women Teachers through the Glass Ceiling
2002: Sure Start Euston: Home Visiting Service Evaluation
2002: Department for Education and Skills: Developing the Business Skills of Childcare Professionals: An Evaluation of the Business Support Programmes
2001: Department for Education and Skills: Assessing the Business Skills of Childcare Professionals
2000: Local Government Association: Developing Early Education and Childcare Services for 21 st Century
Markers of Esteem
Guest Editor: British Education Research Journal: Gender & Sexualities Special Issue (2026)
Guest Editor: Reconfiguring Professionalism in Early Childhood: Contemporary Issues in Early Childhood (2026)
Guest Editor: Transdisciplinary Ecopedagogies: Global Studies of Childhood (2026)
Guest Editor: Bewildering the Pioneers, Pedagogy, Culture & Society (2024)
Conference Chair: Post Graduate Researchers Summer Conference , Mdx (2023)
Guest Editor: The Spectacle of the Toddler, Global Studies of Childhood Journal, Special Issue (2022)
Guest Editor: Risking Erasure?
Posthuman Childhood Studies, Contemporary Issues in Early Childhood (2022)
Nominated to Academy of Finland Grant Applications Assessment Panel (2022)
Elected Professoriate Representative, Academic Board, Middlesex University (2021-2024)
Conference co-chair: PhEMaterialisms, Middlesex University (2015, 2018, 2021)
Awarded Doctoral Supervisor of the Year (2021)
Conference Chair: Ge nder & Education Association Biennial Conference, Middlesex University (2017)
Editor of Gender & Education Journal (2016-2023)
Series Editor: Springer Briefs in Education (from 2020)
Series Editor: Postdevelopmental Approaches to Childhood : Bloomsbury (from 2023)
Series Editor: Feminist Thought in Childhood Research: Bloomsbury (from 2015)
Guest Editor: Reimagining Childhood, Motherhood, Family and Community, Special Issue, Genealogy (2019)
Guest Editor  ‘Revisiting Diversity & Difference through Children’s News Media’, Special Issue, Contemporary Issues in Early Childhood (2019)
Guest Editor:  ‘Dark Play in the Digital Landscape’, Special Issue, Contemporary Issues in Early Childhood (2017)
·Guest Editor: ‘Reimagining Quality in Early Childhood Education’, Special Issue, Contemporary Issues in Early Childhood (2016)
Co-founder of Performing Methodologies in Early Years Research (PMEYR) Network (2014- date)
Transnational Early Childhood Workforce & Wellbeing Study Research Collective (2014- 2016)
Associate Editor, Women’s Studies International Forum (2014-2016)
Elected Chair, Editorial Board British Educational Research Journal (2013-2015)
Founding Member of Early Childhood Action (2012) http://www.earlychildhoodaction.com/
Editor: Reconceptualising Educational Research Methods Journal (2012-date)
Member of the International Childhood Critical Policy Studies Collaborative
Nominated Fellow of The Royal Society of Arts (2010)
Book Reviews Editor, UK & Europe: Contemporary Issues in Early Childhood (2009-2015)
Editorial Board Member British Educational Research Journal (2009-2016)
Editorial Board Member Contemporary Issues in Early Childhood (2007-date)

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/staff-directory/dr-anthony-turner:
Professor in Sports & Exercise Science
Department London Sports Institute
Prof.
Turner is an active researcher, with a particular interest in strength, power and fitness assessment in athletes
AnthonyTurner is a Professor of Strength and Conditioning, and the PostgraduateResearch lead at the London Sport Institute, Middlesex University.
Anthony haspublished over 200 peer-reviewed journal articles and book chapters and is anassociate editor for Strength and Conditioning Journal.
Anthony has also editedfour textbooks including Advanced Strength and Conditioning , The Routledge Handbook of Strengthand Conditioning ,and Strength and Conditioning for Football ; he also recently sole authoredthe book The Fitness Formula .
Anthony has been a sport science consultantand S&C coach to numerous sports teams, Olympic and Paralympic athletes, andwas formerly head of physical preparation for GBR fencing for the Rio Olympic Gamescycle.
Anthony is currently a consultant in human performance for the BritishMilitary, a physical performance coach for Tottenham Hotspur Women’s Academy,and is a recipient of the UKSCA coach of the year for education and research.
Anthony’sYouTube, X, and Instagram handle is @anthonyturneruk .

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/staff-directory/dr-nic-james:
Professor-Sport & Exercise Science
My main research activity is in Performance Analysis specialising in statistical methods and presenting information in novel visual ways.
I have worked in many sports but currently am focussing on football with contracts that support four Phd students.
Previously I have worked with England squash, the Irish Rugby Union and the English Institute of Sport providing expertise for performance development of elite athletes.
I currently help teach and examine on all modules related to the MSc Sport Performance Analysis and play a main role in developing the curriculum to meet industry demands.
I joined Middlesex University in 2010 to lead the research within the London Sport Institute and to deliver an MSc in Sport Performance Analysis.
Concurrently I helped staff obtain PhDs with the aim of growing the research activity within the department.
This culminated in our first REF submission in 2021.
We were particularly pleased that our Impact case studies were judged as either 3* or 4* (the highest 2 ratings).

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/staff-directory/dr-loraine-leeson:
Professor of Fine Art
School Faculty of Arts and Creative Industries
Department School of Arts
My research focuses on the role of art in social and environmental change through bringing community-based knowledge into the public domain.
I welcome applications for PhD supervision relating to research in social practice, particularly where this is practice-led.
Recent and current projects include:
The Art of Healing follow-on: Impact and Engagement 2022-23, £79,951.
Enhancing the value and benefit of previously-funded AHRC research through new interactions and knowledge exchange with user communities in conflict areas.
With University of West of England and schools in Kashmir.
The Art of Engagement: Foundations for an international learning community in social practice 2022-23, £32,236.
PI on AHRC networking project with The Tate Gallery (COI) and partners Queens Museum and City University New York.
https://www.tate.org.uk/about-us/projects/art-of-engagement-international-learning-social-practice
Spaces of Hope: The Hidden History of Community Led Planning 2021-23, £550,538.
Interdisciplinary project with Oxford Brookes University investigating the benefits of community-led planning.
https://www.peoplesplans.org
The Art of Healing in Kashmir 2020-21, £125,763.
Interdisciplinary project with University of West of England, artist, art therapist and school in India's Kashmir region.
The project uses creative methods to support children traumatised by events in a previously militarised zone.
https://artofhealing.org.uk
Active Energy 2008 – 2020, multiple funders £42,185.
An intergenerational project with The Geezers seniors group and an extended interdisciplinary team to harness tidal energy from the Thames.
https://www.active-energy-london.org .
JAL!
Celebrating Cultures of Water in Rural Rajasthan 2018 , £58,451.
COI/ Lead Artist in AHRC networking project to bring the arts to bear on urgent issues of water conservation in Rajasthan’s desert regions https://rajasthanwater.weebly.com .
Hydrocitizenship 2014 -17, £1.5m.
Artist consultant on AHRC funded project led by Bath Spa University.
The project explored roles for the arts in investigating how citizens and communities live with each other and their environment in relation to water.
https://www.hydrocitizenship.com
Lambeth Floating Marsh 2014 - 15, £24,919.
Art/science collaboration addressing issues of biodiversity through construction of a floating reed bed on the River Thames with moving images of river organisms projected along the Thames embankment.
https://cspace.org.uk/category/cspace-projects/lambeth-floating-marsh/ https://cspace.org.uk/category/cspace-projects/lambeth-floating-marsh/
A more comprehensive account of my research and practice can be found at h ttps://www.cspace.org.uk and in my monograph Art:Process:Change – inside a socially situated practice (Routledge, 2017/18).
Teaching and Supervising
Module leader for BA Art Ecologies: Placement (current)
PhD supervision/ Director of Studies relating to research in social practice 2016-20
Programme leader for MA Art and Social Practice 2016-2018
Examining
2023 External examiner (PhD) Dept.
Art History and Visual Culture, School of Social Sciences and Humanities, Loughborough University
2022 External examiner (PhD) Belfast School of Art, University of Ulster
2022 External examiner (PhD) School of Business & Creative Industries, University of the West of Scotland
2017-2021 External examiner for MA Art and Social Practice, University of Highlands and Islands
2020 External assessor for appointments, Department of Creative and Festival Arts, University of the West Indies
2020 External examiner (PhD) Royal Birmingham Conservatoire, Birmingham City University
2019 External examiner (PhD) School of Creative Arts and Design, Loughborough University
2019 External examiner (PhD) Department of Art, University of Reading
2017 Member of advisory committee for appointments to the Serra Húnter Programme, Autonomous University of Barcelona.
2015 External examiner for PhD in Art History and Cultural Studies, Queen’s University, Kingston, Ontario
2014 External examiner for PhD in Environmental Studies, York University Toronto
2013 International PhD referee/assessor, University of Catalunya
Publishing on Social Practice Pedagogy
‘Active Energy – art practice into pedagogy’ in Provocations, Pedagogy, and Other Strategies for Teaching Ecological Art, International Ecoart Network.(2022).
Duman, A.
Leeson, L.
2018, ‘Experience as Art: Fine Art Social Practice Modules at Middlesex University’.
‘Experience as Art: Fine Art Social Practice Modules at Middlesex University’ in Art as Social Action, Allworth Press, New York.
(2018).
Collaboration with Alberto Duman.
‘Giving More Than You Take: a conversation about the ethics, responsibilities and practicalities of facilitating student participation in community-based projects’ in The Tetley Feast, Leeds College of Art.
(2015).
Loraine Leeson is a visual artist whose research focuses on the role of art in social and environmental change through bringing community-based knowledge into the public domain.
Early work included photo-murals, posters, video and exhibition for the health campaigns and the Docklands Community Poster Project in the1980s.
In subsequent decades work with East London communities addressed the impact of change in the urban environment on quality of life and cultural identity.
This was followed by a series of online projects children and teenagers, which attracted a Media Trust Inspiring Voices award and Olympic Inspire Mark, while a public artwork The Catch involving three hundred young people in Barking was voted a London 2012 Landmark.
Recent work has involved communities in addressing environmental concerns.
For two decades Loraine was director of the arts charity cSPACE , led the strategy group Arts for Labour for five years and continues as chair of the film and video production and training centre Four Corners .
A retrospective exhibition celebrating thirty years of her practice toured Berlin, London, Toronto and Dublin 2005-08.
2017 saw her 1970s photomontage work in support of health campaigns exhibited at ICA London and the Routledge publication of her monograph Art:Process:Change – inside a socially situated practice.
She was Fulbright Scholar in residence at University of Washington in 2011 and since that time has taught Fine Art Social Practice in the Department of Visual Arts at Middlesex University.
Research and knowledge exchange work includes Active Energy , a twelve-year initiative with seniors group The Geezers, which focused on renewable energy, while Jal!
an interdisciplinary project in 2018 with artists in Rajasthan addressed issues of water shortage in desert regions.
A current project The Art of Healing with creative practitioners in Kashmir is using the arts to support children who have suffered traumatic experience in militarized zones while another Spaces of Hope is investigating hidden histories of community-led planning and the role that arts can play in this.
The Art of Engagement: foundations for an international learning community in social practice , in collaboration with the Tate, Queens Museum and City University New York, has been investigating how the teaching of social practice can be improved for arts practitioners through partnership between cultural and higher education institutions.
KEY EXPERTISE
Socially engaged art practice, interdisciplinary research involving the arts, placement supervision, fundraising.
AWARDS FOR KNOWLEDGE EXCHANGE/IMPACT
2022 Times Higher Education Knowledge Exchange award for Active Energy
2016 Arts and Green Energy Award, RegenSW for Active Energy
2010 Olympic Inspire Mark for The Young Person’s Guide to East London
2010 Inspiring Voices Media Trust award: The Young Person’s Guide to East London
2009 Public artwork The Catch voted a London 2012 Landmark
1999 Chrisi Bailey award for digital work with young children
ORGANISATIONS AND MEMBERSHIP
Director of The cSPACE Trust https://cspace.org.uk Chair of Four Corners photography and film centre https://www.fourcornersfilm.co.uk Senior Fellow of the Higher Education AcademyMember of British Scholars Fulbright Association
Member of AHRC Peer Review College
BROADCASTING
The NHS: A People's History, BBC FOUR 1st July 2018
Suite (212)- panel discussion on Cultural Democracy for Resonance FM 20th November 2017
The GLC Story – Presentation recorded by Resonance FM 15th December 2015
NuSound Radio (interview) 1st April 2010
ARCHIVES AND COLLECTIONS
• London Community Video Archive https://www.the-lcva.co.uk/interviews/594b032ebefbbb141861b98
• The GLC Story https://glcstory.co.uk/listen-to-interviews/
• National Sound Archive https://www.bl.uk/collections/sound-archive/cat.html
• CityArts Dublin.
Online archive In Conversation https://www.cityarts.ie/programme/inconversation.html
• London East Research Institute https://www.uel.ac.uk/londoneast/gallery/loraine_leeson/index.htm
• Rising East [Online] https://www.uel.ac.uk/risingeast/archive07/interviews/leeson.htm
• The Science Museum, Brought to Life, https://sciencemuseum.org.uk/broughttolife
• Women’s Art Library https://make.gold.ac.uk
• Audio Arts, The Visual Arts in Tower Hamlets, ed.
W.
Furlong, Vol.
5 No.2, Pt.2 1982, cassette tape.
• Museum in Docklands, ‘New Port, New City post 1945’ gallery, London.
• Science Museum, Public Health and Hygiene Collection, London
• MAKE (previously Women’s Art Library), Goldsmiths, University of London
• Awakenings at LB Tower Hamlets town hall, Mulberry Place, London E14 2BG
• East London Health Project posters in Science Museum, Public Health and Hygiene Collection, London

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/staff-directory/dr-stefanie-sachsenmaier:
Associate Professor in Theatre (Research)
Processes of performance-making
Performance and Politics
Philosophy and performance
Practice-as-research
Performer training
Collaborative performance-making
Cross-cultural practices
Tai Chi Chuan/Martial Arts
Postgraduate Research Degrees Lead, Faculty of Arts and Creative Industries
THE3025 Performance: Body and Training, BA Theatre (Module Leader)
THE3535 Theatre Festival, BA Theatre (Module Leader)
THE4000 Reflecting Practices, MA Theatre Arts (Module Leader)
Doctoral supervision:
Alexandra Baybutt: “Imperceptible politics: curation of contemporary dance festivals in the former Yugoslav space, 2007-2017” Second Supervisor (completed 2020)
Helen Kindred: “Dancing in-between” – Second Supervisor (2014 – completed 2020)
Abigail Diaz: “Dance Technology: Fostering digital creativity and hybridized compositional practices” – Director of Studies (2017 – anticipated completion 2024)
Su Rong: “Drama Education Curriculum for Children aged 6-12 in a Chinese Context” – Director of Studies (2019 – anticipated completion 2024)
Dominique Rivoal: “Mind Clearing and Dance-Making” – Director of Studies, ArtsD (2018 – anticipated completion 2024)
Huai-wen Chang: "Dance without a Dancer: Improvising towards and in a state of unmediated awareness" - Director of Studies, MPhil/PhD (2023 - anticipated completion 2025)
Stefanie Gabriele Sachsenmaier (PhD Middlesex University, DEA Université de la Sorbonne Nlle, MA Goldsmiths College, SFHEA) is Associate Professor in Contemporary Performance at Middlesex University.
She is Postgraduate Research Degrees Lead for the Faculty of Arts and Creative Industries and Chair of the Faculty Ethics Committee.
Her research centres on the processual in creative practice, with a particular interest in the ways that performance practices extend into socio-political contexts.
Roles on funded projects include Co-Investigator on Artistic Doctorates in Europe (ErasmusPlus, 2017-2019) and Co-Investigator for Future Ecologies: Producing Dance Network (AHRC, Dance Research Matters, 2023-2025).
She forms part of the AHRC Dance Research Matters Advisory Group, is editorial team member of Contemporary Theatre Review ‘Interventions’ and sits on the editorial board of Choreographic Practices Journal .
Publications include the co-edited book Collaboration in Performance Practice: Premises, Workings and Failures (Palgrave 2016) and a series of writings related to her long-term research with British choreographer Rosemary Butcher, with archival work ongoing.
She co-edited the special issues Critical Stages ‘Unstable Ground: Reconfigurations of Performance and Politics’ (2021) and Performance Research: ‘On Solidarity’ (2022) and is currently working on a monograph with the working title Politics of Process in Performance , forthcoming with Bloomsbury.
With a background as a performer, she is an experienced practitioner of Wu Style taijiquan.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/staff-directory/mr-james-kenworth:
Senior Lecturer in Creative Writing (Practice)
His critically acclaimed series of localist-focussed shows, rooted in Newham’s history, culture and people, have been performed in non-traditional, but site-sympathetic locations in Newham, featuring a ‘mixed economy’ casting of young people and professional actors.
The plays range from radical reimagining’s/remixes of classic literature to dramatizing Newham’s rich political heritage.
James has originated and devised a Pro-Localist approach to cultural engagement in the borough, in which the plays were partnered and supported by a nexus of funders, partners and stakeholders.
These include well-known, local, grassroots organizations and charities, which have substantial roots and ties in the community; local primary and secondary schools; and academics and researchers from Middlesex University.
In 2021, he was awarded Doctor of Philosophy by Public Works for his thesis, Public Spaces, Public Words : PUBLIC SPACES, PUBLIC WORDS: Contextualising Pro-Localist, Site-Local, New Writing and its roots in a community’s history, culture and people , which explored his creative practice as a playwright and investigated the efficacy of the use of Pro-Localism in a specific urban environment and addressed the question: how can iconic literacy classics and historical drama/biography be rewritten and ‘localized’ to reflect a sense of a place, people and culture?
Modules taught:
o  Character Conflict & Dialogue: BA (Hons) Creative Writing and Journalism
o  Screenwriting for Shorts: BA (Hons) Film
o  Storytelling and the Screen: BA (Hons) Film
o  Media Stories: Media Foundation ( for BSc/BA Games Design, BA Television Production, BA Visual Effects, BA Journalism, BA Film, BA Digital Media, BA Advertising, PR and Media, and BA Publishing and Digital Culture)
o  Creative Writing Project: BA (Hons) Creative Writing and Journalism
o  Words and the World/Writing Creatively: BA (Hons) Creative Writing and Journalism
o  Writing and the Contemporary World: BA (Hons) English
o  Independent Project Supervisory Team (for BA English Language and Media, BA Publishing and Media, BA Journalism and Media, BA Media and Cultural Studies and BA Advertising, PR and Media)
o  Off the Page: BA (Hons) Theatre Studies
o  Theatre for Young Audiences: BA (Hons) Theatre Studies
Curriculum Development
o  BA (Hons) Creative Writing & Journalism was successfully revalidated.
The panel commended the collaboration and enthusiasm of the programme team across Hendon and Dubai, which has resulted in a cohesive and industry focused programme, with the innovative design and fully embedded StoryFest.
o  Redesign programme content of stage and radio writing module to more fully reflect MDX’s diverse range of students and give it a more contemporary feel.
Innovations and Initiatives in Learning, Teaching and Student Experience
o   2023 North London Story Festival won the MDXSU award for best Student-Led Event of the year.
The award recognises the success, innovation, creativity and inclusivity of the event and the excellent project management and organisational skills of our students.
o  Production of narrative/scriptwriting worksheets, which de-mystifies the creative writing process and empowers the student’s creative potential, by providing them with an accessible and easy-to-use format in which to understand and apply the essential elements of storytelling.
o  Creation of ‘Post-Seminar Extra Creative Writing Forums’.
These are informal spaces, where students are encouraged to 'experiment' and 'play' with their creative writing and learn from each other outside of the seminar/classroom environment.
o  Use of Discord’s instant messaging and digital distribution platform to foster a sense of community and cohort identity among students.
o ‘Guide to Giving and Receiving Feedback’ .
This is an informal list of ‘do’s and don’t’s’ that aim to create a friendly, but critically productive environment where students can identify areas of development for their work and that of their peers.
Dr James Kenworth is a Playwright/Scriptwriter and Academic/Senior Lecturer in Media Narrative at Middlesex University, London.
His plays includes ‘verse-prose’ plays Johnny Song, Gob ; the black comedy Polar Bears ; issue-led/based plays Everybody’s World (Elder Abuse), Dementia’s Journey (Dementia); plays for young people/schools, The Last Story in the World ; and a Newham-based quintet of site-specific/responsive plays: When Chaplin Met Gandhi, Revolution Farm, A Splotch of Red: Keir Hardie in West Ham and Alice in Canning Town ; Elizabeth Fry: The Angel of Prisons.
His research interests include biographical and historical drama, localized adaptations of literary classics, site-specific and non-traditional/outsider improvised performance space.
He joined Middlesex University in 2017 and has taught at Foundation Year, undergraduate and postgraduate level on Film, Creative Writing, Drama, Journalism, English and Games Design degrees.
Prior to joining MDX, he was Course Tutor in Creative Writing and Literature for Adult Learning Organisations, including Workers Educational Association, Working Men’s College and Newham Adult Learning Service.
At Newham, he successfully introduced new courses in Creative Writing and World Literature , at beginner, intermediate and advanced level, into the curriculum/programme, and designed and planned all course content.
His debut play , Gob, in 1999, starred former Take That star, Jason Orange, and was Time Out and What’s On Critics Choice at King’s Head Theatre, Islington.
In a radical and subversive departure from his boyband image Orange played a 'homeless techno revolutionary in crustie combats and a grubby Che Guevara T-shirt'.
Its revival at Edinburgh Fringe Festival earned the distinction of two five-star reviews from Three Weeks and The List, and was included in the feature "Editor's Highlights of the Fringe".
James was one of eight playwrights selected to take part in the inaugural Tamasha/Mulberry School Writers Attachment Scheme in 2011, created and taught by playwright and Tamasha Theatre Company co-Artistic Director and Playwright, Fin Kennedy.
The scheme has since become Schoolwrights, the UK's first playwrights-in-schools training scheme, which uses Mulberry School as a training base for other writers.
As part of the Attachment Scheme, his play, The Last Story in the World , was performed by Mulberry Students, supported by professional actors, as a script-in-hand rehearsed reading, on a 'scratch performance' at Soho Theatre.
In 2014, James received special permission from the George Orwell Estate to write a contemporary re-imagining of Animal Farm, retitled Revolution Farm , performed on an inner city farm in East London, which the Independent’s Paul Taylor described as a ‘terrifically powerful update…highly recommended” and British Theatre Guide wrote ”If Animal Farm is on the curriculum this term, what better way to introduce it?
His raising awareness play, Dementia’s Journey , won the 2015 University of Stirling International Dementia Award in the category: Dementia & the Arts.
When Chaplin Met Gandhi is published by small publishing house TSL Publications.
A Splotch of Red is published by New Internationalist’s Workable , a new publishing imprint dedicated to trade unions and organized workers.
Revolution Farm and Alice in Canning Town is published by independent UK publishing house playdeadpress.
The Newham Plays have been filmed, edited and produced by Middlesex University’s Media Department’s BA Film students and can be viewed on Vimeo.
(upon request).
His most recent play, Elizabeth Fry: The Angel of Prisons , the fifth in the Newham Play series, performed at Canning Town Library in 2022, , garned impressive critical acclaim, with the Evening Standard writing, a “ Hyper-local history play about penal reformer Elizabeth Fry has heart.", and The Spectator , "The script blends present-day London vernacular with the dialect of the early 19th century.
It’s easy to watch and it delivers heaps of information without any hint of lecture-hall formality."
James’s pioneering of a Pro-Localist methodology of theatre making in non-traditional spaces, featuring a hybrid of professional artists with local talent, was highlighted and championed in a review by London Theatre Reviews; “ Kenworth’s production is an inspiration for theatre makers across London.
The ‘Pro – localist’ ethos, combined with facilitating a local community space, could be the answer to countless fringe and off-west end theatres having to close their doors across London.”
His plays have been reviewed in The Guardian, The Observer, The Independent, The Spectator, Evening Standard, British Theatre Guide, Eastern Eye, Morning Star.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/policies/equality-diversity-inclusion:
We are inclusive and collaborative, with equality, diversity and inclusion informing all we do.
From our inclusive curriculum, to University-wide projects to prevent discrimination, and our commitment to wellbeing, we are agile and open to change to create a more inclusive environment for all.
A key part of our Strategy to 2031, equality, diversity and inclusion informs our research, teaching and engagement and is an important part of all three of our Themes.
It’s also a big part of how we approach health and wellbeing.
Our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Networks develop new ideas, raise awareness and hold events that inspire our wider community.
They also play a key role in influencing our policies through the University’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee.
We have joined the Athena Swan Charter and received this highly-esteemed award that recognises good practice in higher education for eliminating gender bias and developing an inclusive culture.
We value all our staff and students equally, regardless of their sexual orientation, gender identity and expression, and trans status.
We have received a Gold Award in the Stonewall Workplace Equality Index 2023.
We have signed up to the Race Equality Charter and have been awarded a Bronze Award, demonstrating our commitment to improving the representation, progression and success of Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic staff and students within higher education.
We’re a member of Business Disability Forum and an accredited Disability Confident Leader (Level 3) organisation.
This unique University-wide programme of projects which tackle discrimination, bullying, harassment, intimidation, violence and any other form of hate.
It’s a priority to ensure that our University Executive Team are listening and learning on topics from Black Lives Matter to how and what we research and teach.
It is an important part of this process

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/equality-diversity-inclusion:
We are committed to being a respectful, collaborative and supportive community, with equality, diversity and inclusion informing all we do.
We recognising diversity of thought and talent among our students, staff and alumni, and the value this brings to our University.
From our curriculum through to University-wide projects to prevent discrimination, and our commitment to wellbeing, we learn from our experiences and are open to change to create a welcoming and inspiring environment where our students and staff feel they belong and where they thrive.
A key principle of our Strategy to 2031, equality, diversity and inclusion informs our research, teaching and engagement and is an important part of all three of our Themes.
It’s also at the heart of our approach to health and wellbeing.
out of UK universities for boosting students’ social mobility from IFS, Sutton Trust and DfE 2021
At Middlesex we are committed to building a healthy institution where we all behave responsibly and respectfully towards each other and other cultures.
We want to be an institution where our people feel valued and are supported to achieve their aspirations.
The University has a number of Networks that are proactive and successful in instigating and developing new ideas, raising awareness across different issues and experiences, and holding supportive and informative events.
The main purpose of these Networks is to provide a safe and welcoming environment for staff to learn about each other in an inclusive and respectful way, and to provide support to the University’s equalities plans.
The University has the following networks available for staff to join.
If you are interested in being part of any of the Networks, please email inclusion@mdx.ac.uk .
MDX-ARN exists to ensure that black and global majority lives, careers and experiences truly matter at Middlesex University and strives to create long lasting cultural change to enable equity for all, respect and a sense of belonging.
For further information, please email mdxarn@mdx.ac.uk .
The Parents’ and Carers’ Network (PCN) gives parents and carers the opportunity to share experiences, tips and to offer support.
Talking to people who are in a similar situation is often the most powerful form of support, PCN aim to provide an informal and safe space for staff to socialise and talk about the various challenges they face as parents and carers.
For further information, please email families@mdx.ac.uk .
The Disability Network will provide support, share ideas and contribute to the development of relevant practices and projects for the benefit of members of the wider MDX community, primarily, those with a disability, health condition or learning difference.
Any member of staff is welcome to join the network.
It does not matter if they identify with a disability, are an ally or friend, or however they self-describe.
For further information, please email disabilitynw@mdx.ac.uk .
The Gender Network is a space that works intersectionally and provides a feminist platform for people to articulate their own experiences and find common ground.
Membership is aimed at staff who identify as women, trans and/or gender non-conforming and/or who are invested in supporting and amplifying the voices of women, trans and gender non-conforming people at Middlesex.
For further information, please email gendernet@mdx.ac.uk .
MDX IFN aims to showcase and support the diversity of religious belief within the staff and student community at Middlesex University.
The Network aims to have representation from all religions and beliefs within our membership.
For further information, please email mdxinterfaith@mdx.ac.uk .
The LGBT+ Network aims to promote the interests of LGBT+ staff employed at the University together with LGBT+ students.
For further information, email lgbt@mdx.ac.uk .
Our plans for ensuring and promoting gender equality are embedded within a range of intersectional initiatives, reports and action plans in line with our mainstreamed approach to equality, diversity and inclusion.
The Times Higher Education Impact Rankings 2021, which assess universities against the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), has also recognised our commitment, ranking us #12 out of 776 institutions for SDG5 Gender Equality.
The Athena Swan Charter was established in 2005 to encourage and recognise commitment to advancing the careers of women in science, technology, engineering, maths and medicine (STEMM) in the higher education sector, spanning both teaching and research.
In 2015, the Charter was expanded to recognise work undertaken in non-STEMM subjects, and now includes staff in professional and support roles.
Athena Swan is managed by AdvanceHE.
More information about Athena Swan can be found on the AdvanceHE website .
We have been awarded a highly-esteemed Bronze Award by the Athena Swan Charter , which recognises that the University has a solid foundation for eliminating gender bias and developing an inclusive culture that values all staff.
The Athena Swan internal Self-Assessment Team (SAT) undertook a rigorous self-assessment of data to assess gender equality across Middlesex's staff community.
From this insight, the team developed a set of short, medium and longer term actions to help drive forward gender equality and representation across the University, including gender non-conforming individuals.
These actions include:
The Athena Swan Self-Assessment Team (SAT) currently meets quarterly.
The Athena Swan SAT is working together to identify and implement necessary actions to improve gender equality at Middlesex, using data and research.
The main focus of the Athena Swan SAT is to:
The Athena Swan SAT has representation from a breadth of career stages and staff types, including professional and support staff, research and academic staff, and students.
Membership of the Athena Swan SAT is gender-balanced, taking account of intersectionality in its make-up so far as is practicable, and is representative of the diversity inherent within the University.
Middlesex University staff can meet the Athena Swan SAT on the staff intranet (please note, this page is for University staff only and requires a login) .
Middlesex University is committed to developing a distinctive, inclusive and sustainable research culture which fosters the skills, methods and ethos of practice-oriented, interdisciplinary research and knowledge exchange.
Our approach to Athena Swan follows four strands:
Our Gender Equality Plan (GEP) is predominantly set out in our Athena Swan submissions.
We align with the Horizon Europe Gender Equality Plan requirements as follows.
The GEP should be a formal document signed by the top management and disseminated within the institution.
It should demonstrate a commitment to gender equality, set clear goals and detailed actions and measures to achieve them.
Our Athena Swan application and action plan are available online and are fully endorsed by our Vice-Chancellor.
The plan demonstrates a commitment to gender equality and sets out clear goals, which include specific, measurable, achievable, relevant and time bound actions.
Resources for the design, implementation, and monitoring of GEPs may include funding for specific positions such as Equality Officers or Gender Equality Teams as well as earmarked working time for academic, management and administrative staff.
The University has an Athena Swan Self-Assessment Team and Gender Equality Steering Group embedded within the structure of the University, reporting to the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Committee.
Staff are given the time to undertake roles within the Athena Swan SAT.
GEPs must be evidence-based and founded on sex or gender-disaggregated baseline data collected across all staff categories.
This data should inform the GEP’s objectives and targets, indicators, and ongoing evaluation of progress.
The Athena Swan submission contains comprehensive data on our gender composition.
An annual report is provided to the EDI Committee giving gender-disaggregated baseline data.
This data is then used by the EDI Committee to identify issues and commit to appropriate actions over the next five years.
Actions may include developing gender competence and tackling unconscious gender bias among staff, leaders and decision-makers, establishing working groups dedicated to specific topics, and raising awareness through workshops and communication activities.
The University has an EDI Committee and Gender Equality Steering Group supported by a Gender Network; these are all involved in our gender equality work.
The EDI team maintain EDI webpages for all staff, toolkits, and guidance, which are all available online (only accessible to Middlesex University staff).
In addition to these mandatory process-related requirements, the following five thematic areas are recommended for content:
If you would like further information, please contact the EDI Team at inclusion@mdx.ac.uk
Read our application for the Athena Swan Bronze Award
Middlesex aims to advance Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) and we have an ambitious gender action plan underpinning this over the next few years.
The Times Higher Education Impact Rankings 2024, which assess universities against the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), has also recognised our commitment, ranking us in the top 200 out of 1,361 institutions from 114 countries or regions for SDG5 Gender Equality.
Examples of work undertaken included:
As part of this work, the University is looking to further address in the gender pay gap in 2024/25 through a number of initiatives and firmly believes that working on realistic, deliverable measures will help us to build stronger relationships internally and continue to make the University attractive to the best talent.
We will use our Bronze Award Athena Swan Charter Action Plan to help us address any gender equality issues including:
View metrics for current and previous years in the accordions below.
Published pay Gap for Middlesex University (excluding our wholly owned subsidiary MU Services Ltd as there are fewer than 250 employees).
The metrics are based on hourly earnings as of 31 March 2024, on a staff base of 2,081 (Core and hourly paid excluding MU Services Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary which has fewer than 250 staff and is exempt from mandatory reporting) (58% Female and 42% Male).
The Mean and Median gender pay gap based on an hourly rate of ordinary pay:
£26.00
£26.03
877
£23.50
£22.88
1,204
9.6%
12.1%
2,081 employees
The Mean and Median bonus gender pay gap and the proportion of male and female employees receiving a bonus payment:
0.1%
9.3%
19.5%
The proportion of male and female employees in each hourly rate quartile pay band:
180
34.6%
340
65.4%
194
37.2%
327
62.8%
234
45%
286
55%
269
51.7%
251
48.3%
The above data has been reported to the University’s UET group and to its Board of Governors, it will also be reported on the Government’s Gender pay website .
Gender Pay Gap reporting will be monitored and reviewed by the University’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee, whose membership consists of the six Diversity Networks, including the Gender Network.
This will enable greater transparency about gender pay differences between men and women both within the University and externally.
It also fits within our Equality and Diversity agenda, which is a key objective within University Strategy.
The metrics are based on hourly earnings as of 31 March 2023, on a staff base of 2,372 (Core and hourly paid excluding MU Services Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary which has fewer than 250 staff and is exempt from mandatory reporting) (58% Female and 42% Male).
£24.50
£23.99
1,003
£22.40
£22.13
1,369
8.6%
7.8%
2,372 employees
4.2%
0.0%
224
37.8%
369
62.2%
214
36.1%
379
63.9%
252
42.6%
57.4%
313
52.7%
281
47.3%
Gender Pay Gap reporting will be monitored and reviewed by the University’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee, whose membership consists of the 6 Diversity Networks, including the Gender Network.
The metrics are based on hourly earnings as of 31 March 2022, on a staff base of 2,498 (Core and hourly paid excluding MU Services Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary which has fewer than 250 staff and is exempt from mandatory reporting) (58.7% Female and 41.3% Male)
£23.80
£22.75
1,031
£21.10
£20.93
1,467
11.30%
8.00%
2,498 employees
29.50%
-11.10%
0.10%
220
35.30%
404
64.70%
223
35.70%
401
64.30%
266
42.60%
359
57.40%
322
51.50%
303
48.50%
The Metrics are based on hourly earnings as of 31 March 2021, on a staff base of 2,453 staff (core and hourly paid) (58.2% female and 41.8% male).
The Mean and Median gender pay gap based on an hourly rate of ordinary pay i.e.
full earnings distribution:
£23.59
£22.46
1,026
£21.00
£20.62
1,427
10.98%
8.19%
2,453 employees
34.93%
-17.00%
0.58%
0.28%
201
32.79%
412
67.21%
231
37.62%
383
62.38%
263
42.90%
350
57.10%
331
54.00%
282
46.00%
The Metrics are based on hourly earnings as of 31 March 2020, on a staff base of 2,574 staff (core and hourly paid) (57.4% female and 42.6% male).
Mean and median gender pay gap based on an hourly rate of ordinary pay i.e.
Median gender pay gap
£23.48
£22.41
1,063
£21.07
1,397
10.26%
7.99%
2,460 employees
Mean and median bonus gender pay gap and the proportion of males and females receiving a bonus payment:
4.13%
5.32%
5.64%
222
36.10%
393
63.90%
243
39.51%
372
60.49%
273
44.39%
342
55.61%
325
528.85%
290
47.15%
The above data has been reported to the University’s VCE group and to its Board of Governors, it will also be reported on the Government’s Gender pay website .
Gender Pay Gap reporting will be monitored and reviewed by the University’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee, whose membership consists of the four equality for groups, including gender.
It also fits within our Equality and Diversity agenda, which is a key objective within the People and Culture Enabling Plan.
The Metrics are based on hourly earnings as of 31 March 2019, on a staff base of 2,574 staff (core and hourly paid) (57.4% female and 42.6% male).
Women
The proportion of male and female employees in each hourly rate quartile pay band, showing the spread of male and female earners across the University:
Number of men
Quarter 1
265
41.21%
378
58.79%
Quarter 2
210
32.61%
434
67.39%
Quarter 3
277
43.01%
367
56.99%
Quarter 4
344
53.50%
299
46.50%
Gender Pay Gap reporting will be monitored and reviewed by the University’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee, whose membership consists of the four equality fora groups, including gender.
The Metrics are based on hourly earnings as of 31 March 2018, on a staff base of 2,681 staff (core and hourly paid) (56.3% female and 43.7% male).
£21.70
£20.99
1,171
£19.77
£19.71
1,510
8.89%
6.10%
-4.91%
3.57%
5.55%
42.03%
389
57.97%
244
36.42%
426
63.58%
291
43.43%
56.57%
354
52.84%
316
47.16%
The Metrics are based on hourly earnings as of 31 March 2017, on a staff base of 2,462 staff (core and hourly paid) (56% female and 44 % male).
Mean and median based on an hourly rate of ordinary pay i.e.
£22.38
£21.57
1,092
£20.31
£19.96
1,370
9.25%
7.46%
7.04%
4.66%
9.52%
The proportion of male and female employees in each quartile pay band, showing the spread of male and female earners across the University:
239
38.86%
376
61.14%
238
38.64%
61.36%
283
46.02%
332
53.98%
53.90%
284
46.10%
As part of our commitment to the Athena Swan Action Plan, we are working hard to achieve the objective of addressing the continued masculinised/feminised nature of some academic areas to ensure greater gender balance.
In 2022/23, we raised – both internally and externally – the profile of women in Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics and Medicine (STEMM) at the University, demonstrating that women role models can succeed in STEMM careers, and at Middlesex University.
In celebration of International Women's Day (IWD) and throughout March 2023, we invited colleagues to get involved in a variety of internal events and externally hosted events and activities.
Our Global Women's Breakfast event celebrated women in science and showcased their great research and personal experiences in the field.
Watch the video below, which was filmed by a group of Middlesex University Film students, to find out more.
We value all our staff and students equally, regardless of their sexual orientation, gender identity and expression, and transgender status.
Coming to university or starting a new job is an exciting and liberating time, but you may be feeling anxious about your identity.
You may not be ‘out’ to your peers, you may not be ready, or you may not have the support of your family.
Perhaps you are ‘out and proud’!
Either way, here at Middlesex we accept you just as you are.
We are committed to fostering an inclusive and supportive environment for all students and staff, however you identify.
We understand that lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer (LGBTQ+) students may face additional challenges during their time at University.
And we are here to help.
We have received a Gold Award from Stonewall – the world’s second-largest LGBTQ+ charity – for our commitment to inclusion of lesbian, gay, bi, trans and queer people in the workplace in the Stonewall Workplace Equality Index 2023.
We also ranked 58th (out of 268 institutions) in this Index, and came 8th out of the 30 higher education institutions that took part this year.
Ant Babajee, a CRM Manager and the former co-chair of the LGBT+ Network at the University, has been named a Change Maker of the Year in the 2023 Stonewall Workplace Equality Index.
The Change Maker of the Year recognition goes to individuals who are doing inspiring work within their institutions and beyond to ensure there are inclusive working environments and a welcoming community for us all.
Visit our LGBTQ+ network page (MDXSU) .
The group provides a space for meeting other people, sharing experiences and creating change on campus.
We run events, parties and meetings for both members and allies from coffee mornings and quiz nights to women-only spaces for self-defining women and non-binary people to chat informally.
Since starting out we have built partnerships with the staff LGBTQ+ group and collaborated on several events, including a film screening of the film Pride.
We have run events from karaoke, prom, movies, gaymes nights as well as tea/coffee meetings and trips around London!
We march with MDXSU and Middlesex University at Pride in London, Middlesex Pride, Barnet Pride, Trans Pride and UK Black Pride.
In addition to group campaigns and social activities, we will support you on your personal journey.
We recognise that living as or coming out as trans or non-binary may be a difficult and complex time for students, and we will support you with helpful guidance to ease any challenges and provide support as appropriate.
Please find out more about our support by viewing our Student Trans Policy and Guidance.
We believe trans and non-binary people have the right to use facilities and changing rooms corresponding to their gender identity without fear of harassment.
However, we recognise that some trans and non-binary people (and others) feel more comfortable using gender-neutral toilets.
Gender-neutral toilets can be found on campus in the following buildings: College House, The Barn, The Grove, and StoneX Stadium West Stand buildings.
The University is committed to increasing the number of gender-neutral facilities on campus and including these facilities in the plans for new building developments.
You can help support the community while you are at university.
An ally is a straight or cisgender person who provides support and advocates for the LGBTQ+ community.
You can keep up to date by following us on X and following us on Instagram .
You can also read our blog on Medium .
If you would like to find out more about email our LGBT+ Network .
Middlesex University prioritises equity, inclusivity and fairness in all our activities and we expect that out people demonstrate this through our everyday behaviours.
We firmly believe that everything we achieve is made possible through the talents, skills, insights and experiences of our diverse community.
We are a member of Advance HE's Race Equality Charter (REC) and have been awarded a REC Bronze Award , which demonstrate our commitment to improving the representation, progression and success of Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic staff and students within higher education.
Our Bronze Award indicates that Middlesex University is on the right path to developing a more inclusive culture and progressing towards creating even greater opportunities for everyone in our community of staff and students, regardless of our background or experience.
REC members are committed to following these five guiding principles:
The University joined Advance HE's Race Equality Charter (REC) in 2020 and received the REC Bronze Award in October 2023.
The REC helps member institutions in their work to identify and address the barriers facing racially minoritised staff and students, while also providing a framework for action and improvement.
There are currently 99 REC members in the higher education sec­tor and 44 of them, including Middlesex University, hold awards, which demonstrates the significance of this great achievement.
As a University, we have an important part to play in helping to make the world a more inclusive place for our students, colleagues and our global community.
This Bronze Award indi­cates that we are on the right path to developing a more inclusive culture and progressing towards creating even greater opportunities for us all, regardless of our background or experi­ence.
Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) is our central focus and this will continue.
Read our Race Equality Action Plan (PDF)
Read our Race Equality Charter Application (PDF)
The main focus of the SAT is to:
Race and ethnicity terminology
Race Equality Charter: self-assessment teams
Race Equality Charter on the Advance HE website
In Middlesex University, in the region of 29% of staff come from minority ethnic backgrounds, around 16% of professors and senior staff are from minority ethnic backgrounds.
Although there are members of the Board of Governors from minority ethnic backgrounds, the University Executive is not ethnically diverse.
Reverse mentoring is part of this process.
Mentoring is a process where a more experienced person supports the learning of a less experienced person.
It is not a teaching or instructional relationship, but rather is one in which the mentor helps the mentee reflect on their ideas, experiences and issues at work, and supports them in finding a pathway to progress.
The mentoring relationship relies on high levels of trust so that anything relevant can be discussed including anxieties, aspirations, problems and potential solutions.
While discussing the day-to-day experience of work can be important, it is also important to focus at a higher level, thinking about the future and bigger goals.
Reverse mentoring has the same ethos, but reverses one crucial element.
Rather than a more senior person mentoring a more junior mentee, the colleague who is more junior mentors the mentee who is more senior.
The reason for this is that the senior person will be less experienced than the junior colleague in something they crucially need to understand.
Equity, diversity and inclusion is an area in which is it particularly important for leaders to learn from colleagues who have different life experiences, and who experience the organisation in a different way to leaders who have perceived positional status.
Challenges with positions of perceived status include that the people who occupy them can become insulated from the experience of most people, information can be filtered and it can be difficult for colleagues to express what they really think.
Reverse mentoring creates a safe space for the mentors to explain to the senior mentee what is really going on in their experience, and it is a safe space for the mentor to discuss and listen about things they don’t know and are uncertain about.
It is an opportunity for the mentee to try to see organisational life through the eyes of others and to take action as a result.
Reverse mentoring for understanding and action on racial discrimination and prejudice includes:
You can download the contents of this webpage as a PDF document.
We have signed up to the Race at Work Charter , an initiative designed to improve outcomes for Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic employees (BAME) in the UK.
Signing up means taking practical steps to ensure our workplace is tackling barriers that ethnic minority people face in recruitment and progression and that our organisation is representative of British society today.
The Chartered Management Institute (CMI) works with business and education to inspire people to unleash their potential and become skilled, confident and successful managers and leaders.
The CMI Race network supports people to create more equal, diverse and inclusive organisations by driving change through professional leadership and management practices.
The CMI guide on workplace inclusion , aims to support all organisations in making real change happen.
Read our Annual Review of Equality, Diversity and Inclusion for 1 July 2023 to 30 June 2024 here (accessible PDF)
Middlesex University recognises and is committed to challenging the structural barriers experienced by people of colour.
To enable us to create equity within the University we are voluntarily reporting our ethnicity pay gap and will take steps to address it.
Unlike gender pay gap reporting, ethnicity pay gap reporting is not required by law but there are growing calls to make it a statutory requirement.
We have obtained a Bronze Award for our Race Equality Charter Application which contains actions to address the data collected.
We have included both Middlesex University and MU Services Ltd (a wholly owned subsidiary) in our reporting.
As of 31 March 2024, the Ethnicity Pay Gap for all core and hourly paid staff (excluding students) was 11.7% (mean or average) , compared to 9.6% in 2023 .
The median pay gap was 10.5% , up from 10.0% in 2023 , in favour of white staff.
These figures are based on a total employee headcount of 1,689 (including both core and hourly paid staff).
The Mean and Median ethnicity pay gap based on an hourly rate of ordinary pay:
Mean ethnicity pay gap
Median ethnicity pay gap
Total employees
White
£28.20
£26.61
1,101
BAME
£24.90
£23.82
585
Gap %
11.7%
10.5%
1,689 employees
The Mean and Median bonus ethnicity pay gap and the proportion of BAME and White staff receiving a bonus payment:
Proportion receiving bonus
Mean ethnicity bonus gap
Median ethnicity bonus gap
9.8%
13.3%
The proportion of BAME and White staff in each hourly rate quartile pay band:
Pay band
Number of white employees
Percentage of white employees
Number of BAME employees
Percentage BAME employees
Quartile 1
56.5%
183
43.5%
Quartile 2
242
57.5%
179
42.5%
Quartile 3
77.5%
95
22.5%
Quartile 4
294
69.7%
128
30.3%
£27.00
£25.89
1,316
£24.40
£23.29
590
10.0%
1,906 employees
The Mean and Median bonus ethnicity pay gap and the proportion of BAME and White employees receiving a bonus payment:
84.1%
The proportion of BAME and White employees in each hourly rate quartile pay band:
264
55.3%
213
44.7%
319
66.9%
158
33.1%
68.3%
151
31.7%
408
85.7%
68
14.3%
£25.60
£24.05
1,393
£23.10
£22.00
602
8.5%
1,995 employees
The Mean and Median bonus ethnicity pay gap and the proportion of white and BAME employees receiving a bonus payment:
29.5%
-11.1%
The proportion of white and BAME employees in each hourly rate quartile pay band:
168
33.7%
66.3%
40.4%
297
59.6%
171
34.3%
328
65.7%
Every neurodivergent individual has a unique pattern of strengths and challenges.
No two people are the same, so we all have different profiles.
Our neurodivergent staff and students bring unique perspectives, talent and problem-solving skills to Middlesex University.
By embracing neurodiversity, we not only foster inclusivity and equity, but also benefit from their diverse strengths and contributions.
The Neurodiversity Week hub offer resources to help educators, organisations, parents and carers better understand different types of neurodiversity, and how they can be better allies.
Our student support services pages cover mental health support and counselling available to our students.
If you are affected by a health condition or learning difficulty, please consult our guide to support available through our disability and neurodiversity service .
Current students and staff can access information about disability and neurodiversity support through the MyMDX app .
Neurodiversity is a recognition that not all brains think or feel the same way, and that these differences are natural variations in the human genome.
A group of people are neurodiverse, an individual is not.
Neurodivergent refers to an individual who has a less typical cognitive variation such as Autism, ADHD, dyslexia, dyspraxia etc.
People may also acquire neurodiversity, for example as a result of a head injury or a stroke.
However, it’s best not to focus on conditions or attempt to medicalise people.
One way of understanding neurodiversity is through the idea of a ‘spiky profile’.
Someone with a ‘spiky profile’ has some great strengths, but also finds some things much harder than other people.
If neurotypical people have relatively ‘flat’ profiles because the difference between their areas of strength and weakness are smaller, neurodivergent people have ‘spiky profiles’ because the differences between their areas of strength and weakness are more pronounced.
The different ways in which we think can go to the heart of our identities.
That means it’s important to think about how you’re talking about neurodiversity.
The most important thing to do when talking about neurodiversity is to listen.
Ask neurodivergent people how they want to be spoken to and about.
There are different ways of talking about disability, and the main two are ‘person-first’ and ‘identity-first’.
An example of person-first language is ‘person with autism’ or ‘person with dyslexia’.
Using identity-first language, those examples would be ‘autistic person’ or ‘dyslexic person’.
Some people prefer one over the other, and it can depend on the condition and the individual.
Some autistic people feel that their autism is such an integral part of their identity that it would be inaccurate to say they are a ‘person with autism’ because the person and the autism are inextricable.
These people might say that identity-first language better reflects their identity.
There are no hard and fast rules about what language to use with individuals.
You should always ask someone how they like to identify if you are unsure.
Take your lead from them, and don’t be afraid to ask – respectfully – if you’re not sure.
The annual MDX Neurodiversity Celebration Festival is an opportunity to celebrate and showcase the talents, strengths, and unique perspectives of the neurodivergent community.
These events feature performances, stalls, activities, workshops and discussions.
The goal is to celebrate diversity and inclusion, while also helping the university community to become better informed.
These events are open to all, and take place across our three campuses in London, Mauritius and Dubai.
The Festival is led by:
Here are some events that have featured in past MDX Neurodiversity Celebration Festivals.
This talk considered:
This talk was delivered by Karisa Krcmar  Director of the Professional Association of Specific Learning Difference Specialists in Higher Education (PASSHE).
A doctorate is often considered the pinnacle of academic education, but is not always a space where everyone feels they can belong.
This presentation introduced EDI considerations related to postgraduate researchers in the higher education sector.
It also outlined preliminary insights of an ongoing review, in collaboration with Advance HE, of practices and processes in postgraduate research through the lens of EDI.
This talk was given by Nico Pizzolato , Director of Postgraduate Research Studies at Middlesex University.
Neurodivergent students from London, Dubai and Mauritius shared insights into their educational journey, discussing their unique experiences and challenges.
They also showcased their strengths and proud accomplishments, inspiring others with their resilience and achievements.
Audience members were invited to engage with the panellists.
This session was livestreamed to our Dubai and Mauritius Campuses.
An exhibition, by MA Interior students, around the need for quieter spaces along Oxford Street.
The proposals focused on how we can adapt our existing built environment to provide refuge and inclusive, quiet spaces for neurodivergent visitors.
Work by:
Breaking Free is a dance/interactive performance about neurodiversity involving screen projection, sound and lighting.
It was created and performed at the MDX Neurodiversity Celebration Festival by Yasemin Gross, a multidisciplinary actor/performer with neurodivergence, then in her 3rd year of Theatre Arts BA at Middlesex University.
The performance consisted of three parts:
This production aimed to raise awareness of how people with neurodiversity feel and to form connections, acknowledging that everyone has challenges and strong points.
A range of creative extracts from some of the work of Chickenshed Theatre students, with all the pieces being led and or/created by students with neurodiverse lived experiences.
Extracts were from projects performed at Chickenshed Theatre, outreach in schools, or both.
The varied and impactful work reflects and embodies the spirit of neurodiverse positivity and barrier-breaking celebrated at the Middlesex Neurodiversity Festival.
Participants at the festivals also have the opportunity to meet with organisations such as:
Alongside this, there are opportunities to explore how assistive technology and equipment can support you in your studies.
There will be an opportunity to trial the equipment, such as Posturite MindView and Read&Write (support for people with dyslexia), Dragon (speech-to-text) and Glean (notetaking).
The festivals also give students and staff opportunities an introduction to range of support services available to neurodiverse people at Middlesex, and the people behind them.
"I have ADHD and Middlesex University changed my life.
Everything turned in a positive way when I reached out to the support services, right from the first phone call when I spoke to somebody who encouraged me to apply and helped me with setting up my support.
I received 1:1 support, mentoring, study skills and a lot of equipment.
Last year I graduated and was fortunate enough to secure a job at an NHS trust.
I'm currently working as an audiologist and could not have achieved this without the support I received at Middlesex.
The university experience has been life-changing for me, Middlesex helped me conquer this success!”
“I am the Academic Director, Middlesex University Mauritius, formerly Deputy Dean for the Faculty of Health, Social Care and Education, with a PhD, and I am dyslexic.
I am keen on showing that dyslexia is not a barrier to success.”
“I have ADHD and love the creativity, innovation and ability to see things differently that this brings to my practise as a midwife and leader in the NHS.
There are challenges too, but finding the right kind of role for my unique brain within my profession has allowed me to flourish; as have practising kindness and understanding towards myself.”
“I am an autistic and ADHD Midwifery Lecturer and Midwife.
I am keen to share my diagnosis with you so that you can see that you are not alone, if you too are neurodivergent.
I am keen for us to generate a greater understanding of all types of neurodivergence and the possibilities for even better inclusivity."
“I am an autistic lecturer and midwife and I want to disrupt the outdated narrative around neurodiversity by engaging in innovative and collaborative conversations and projects.”
“I never let my dyslexia get in the way of accomplishing great things and decided to embrace this different way of learning.
This has made me a stronger and more empathetic person."
"I am an autistic TMHW.
One of the things I am hoping to do in the future is to interview various individuals on the neurodivergent spectrum to show society how different we all are to each other.
I also want to show how neurodivergent individuals are more than able to contribute to society when rightfully accommodated."
“I am an Autistic and Dyslexic lecturer and nurse.
I would want equity for all those identifying as neurodivergent to allow them to reach their maximum potential in all aspects of their life without societal and organisational barriers.”
“I have ASD and ADHD and I love my neurodivergent brain and how my brain works and how I see the world, I am able to think outside the box and I love how passionate I am as well as having a strong sense of justice, as a Games design graduate at MDX my creativity with my neurodivergency helped a lot!”
“Having dyslexia has helped me to appreciate that we all have different strengths and needs, which is essential in my role because it gives me an insight into how important it is to put the right support for colleagues with support needs.”
“I have dyslexia and I couldn’t have achieved my dream to become a midwife without the support from the university and my personal tutor.”
“I believe that my autism aids my creativity by allowing me to view the world in a different way.
I sometimes struggle socially, but find it easy to engage with others through my art.”
“There is no 'right' way of thinking, learning, and communicating.
Our brains are wired differently and that's okay.”
“I’m dyslexic and dyspraxic and grew up assuming that the things that I was good at were despite my Neurodiversity but as I got older and started to research, I realised that they were because of it.
It feels cheesy to say but I’m really proud to be neurodiverse.”
“I am an Event Coordinator with dyspraxia and I want to disrupt the outdated narrative around neurodiversity, by showing that my disability is not limiting - in fact, the way I think and plan, means I get to be creative and work visually.
Thanks to Middlesex University’s onus on accessible education, my self-development has been incredible.
I am in the final year of a law degree, whilst balancing work and a young family.
I have represented the university in mediation competitions in London and Ireland.
I have also had the privilege of learning from unbelievably inspiring experts in the legal field, planning events externally at prestigious venues (barristers chambers and Inns of Court!) and organised important events on campus, which contribute towards the future.
I am proud of how I work in a coordination role, when my condition is all about a lack of coordination!”
“A slow reader, I struggled, but worked super-hard at school and did OK.
Energetic, enthusiastic and full of visual ideas because of my ADHD, I went on to become a successful TV director at the BBC, where I juggled many varied priorities and created high-impact films such as Top Gear .”
This unique University-wide programme of projects tackles discrimination, bullying, harassment, intimidation, violence and any other form of hate.
Our practical, skills-based education transforms the lives of over 36,000 students and apprentices every year, while serving our communities and regions.
We offer a range of virtual on-demand, subject, and support events, all offering you different views and information about the University.
We are inclusive and fair, and we are a learning organisation.
We aim to support a University environment where staff can fulfil their potential, irrespective of ill health and disability.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-groups/centre-for-education-research-and-scholarship-cers:
Based in the Education Department at Middlesex University, the Centre for Education Research and Scholarship:
CERS supports a wide range of research projects.
Current highlights include:
For information on other active projects and for updates on the projects described above, more information is available on the CERS website.
We have built a strong reputation as an innovator in higher education and we have a strong emphasis on interdisciplinary activity.
In the Department of Education we offer PhDs and DProfs; two high quality research programmes that aim to tackle current national and international research priorities within the context of education.
PhDs are offered via full-time and offers a traditional opportunity to research a topic and to view this through the lens of theory.
It's ideal for those who enjoy sustaining their own progress.
DProfs are offered via part-time study and is designed for anyone involved in a professional discipline who wants a slightly more structured approach to doctoral-level study.
The DProf programme is structured around modules and suits those who are interested in exploring 'professionalism' in their own context or place of work.
Both these routes will give you the opportunity to gain an in-depth grounding in educational research methods.
You'll also be supported by a supervisory/advisory team as well as having the additional holistic support provided by the CERS.
All research students are integrated into the research culture of the department and are encouraged to participate in various different ways both throughout their study and afterwards.
Some events are informal gatherings around a cup of coffee, such as the weekly Research Club to facilitate individual support and collaboration.
Others are more formal, such as the public lectures organised by CERS or the university-wide summer conference for staff and students.
These routes allow you to actively design and manage a research study, complete a written presentation and conclude in an oral examination, viva voce.
If you have any questions or queries about our doctoral programmes, please email Dr Leena Robertson (tel: 020 8411 4768) or Dr Victoria de Rijke (tel: 020 8411 6369).
We take the training of our doctoral students extremely seriously because we believe that the best research is ethically, methodologically and theoretically robust.
We are committed to making sure that our students have the opportunity to develop into the best researchers of tomorrow.
To this end, we provide a vigorous programme of workshops covering a range of methodological, theoretical, technical and practical issues related to all stages of the research process.
In addition, we also work with colleagues across Middlesex University to ensure that our students benefit from any other specialist resource which may be on offer.
Our workshops are delivered by experts and open to all Middlesex students.
For more information, including workshop times and dates, visit the CERS website .
To support researcher development across Education, we host regular seminars and workshops to share and discuss research in process.
We get ‘under the skin’ of research approaches and methodologies through a podcast series available on the CERS website.
We also offer a research coaching scheme to staff in the Education department, so that they can work with an experienced researcher to make a break-through in a particular area of development (e.g.
publications, funding applications or engagement activities).
More information is available on the CERS website .
We manage our own ethics committee so that students and staff carrying out educational research can obtain ethical approval from reviewers who have specialist expertise.
To apply for ethical approval through this committee, students and staff use the MORE form on the CERS website.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-groups/centre-for-investigative--diagnostic-oncology:
Pioneering cancer diagnosis and therapy
Welcome to the Centre for Investigative & Diagnostic Oncology.
Nowadays, sadly, few people don't have relatives and loved ones who have fought cancer – and, in many cases, died of it.
Established in 2008, our centre works at the most practical level to reduce the number of people dying of cancer.
We undertake groundbreaking research that can speedily be applied to patients.
Our focus is on the diagnosis and potential therapy of colon, skin, prostate, breast and brain cancer – among the most common forms of the disease in the UK.
If these conditions could be diagnosed much earlier as part of routine screening, the possibilities for successful treatment are immense.
The Centre is housed in the impressive Hatchcroft building on Middlesex University's Hendon campus.
Under the direction of the eminent immunologist Professor Ivan Roitt, our internationally-renowned scientists have the potential to make quantum advances – both academically and commercially.
We welcome biomedical science masters and PhD students to work alongside us to gain first-hand exposure to the cutting-edge research taking place.
The Centre has been supported by generous grants from our Patrons, Jon Smith and Princess Sara bint Talal through the Lee Smith Foundation.
We welcome interest from individuals and corporations for further funding to enable our vital research work.
If you would like to become a benefactor, then please email Professor Roitt .
Our main research themes, listed below, demonstrate the highly creative outlook of our staff.
These are our current research projects.
Simply click on the titles for more information.
As described in Project 8, many tumours secrete a molecule which can act to stimulate growth of the tumour in a so-called autocrine loop.
One such growth factor is a genetic variant of the pregnancy hormone, human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG), which we have recognised uses a DNA sequence not expressed by normal cells.
We will investigate the possibility that the presence of the hCG variant in the serum DNA of cancer patients and/or the abnormal protein which it encodes, can provide useful prognostic indicators and/or biomarkers to monitor therapy.
c-Met receptor is a surface marker of many tumours but is particularly related to cancer stem cells from which the tumour mass differentiates (compare Project 1).
The cells are stimulated when the c-Met binds its circulating ligand, hepatocyte growth factor (HGF).
We will examine the possibility that tumour cells (cell lines initially) express c-Met and if so, whether they secrete HGF and/or are stimulated by this growth factor (we should apply this also to the stem cell progeny produced in Project 1).
Like the hCG experiments suggested above, the presence of HGF and/or c-Met in serum should be studied along with hCG and other serum tumour biomarkers as a possible array for diagnosis and/or therapy monitoring.
Look also for possible autoantibodies and abnormal c-Met DNA.
To find new serum biomarkers as prognostic indicators of disease and as monitors of therapy.
Look for possible new c-Met/HGF autocrine loop.
Examine any surface phenotypic changes induced by autocrine stimulation.
S.
Butler Leader
Wen Scientific support
L.
Ghali Scientific support
Beatta (Poznan) Serum DNA
Research Assistant Cell and biomarker studies
P.
Cohen (Histopath., Imperial) Supply clinical materials
I.
Cree (Warwick) Serum samples
Look for blood biomarkers using the NALIA system (see Early lab diagnosis of cancer) to see whether they can provide early diagnosis of brain cancer, particularly glioblastoma, and also monitoring of therapy.
We will construct iron nanoparticles to target the brain tumour cells because they should permit the application of the highly economical Electrical Impedance Imaging Technology and permit thermal ablation of the tumour by application of an external energy source to targeted nanoparticles injected directly into the tumour mass.
1) Diagnostic microarray for early diagnosis and monitoring of brain tumours.
2) Economical imaging of these tumours.
3) Thermal ablation of tumours ("I'd rather have a needle than a knife").
A.
Tizzard Leader
R.
Bayford Scientific support
Butler Scientific support
Research Assistant Biological testing of nanoparticles
Midatech Ltd.
Nanoparticle synthesis
Dalgleish, St.
Testing tumour inhibition
George's Hosp.
M.Sch.
Surgeon, Kings Coll.
Hosp.
Provide clinical material
We have collaborated with a team at Dartmouth College in the USA who have been applying Electrical Impedance Tomography (EIT) imaging to the diagnosis of breast cancer.
Our contribution has been to greatly improve image accuracy by more sophisticated mathematical analysis of the imaging data paying particular attention to the influence of breast shape.
We intend to refine our algorithms even more to improve the reliability of diagnosis.
To help establish an accurate diagnostic system for breast cancer which is economical and does not involve the use of ionising radiation which is especially undesirable for pregnant, young and elderly women and for repeated use.
If skin patch delivery results are encouraging (Midatech), propose therapeutic collaboration using cytotoxic gold nanoparticles .
Research Assistant Mathematical analysis
Research Student (MSc or placement) Prototype build and testing
When a normal cell divides, it produces two identical daughter cells.
When a cancer stem cell divides, it produces a new cancer stem cell and a differentiated cell, which grows to form the tumour mass.
The stem cells are the most important source of secondary growths and, unlike the tumour mass, are generally resistant to conventional chemotherapy (see illustration).
Early detection and eradication of the new resistant stem cells is therefore vital to increase a patient's chances of survival.
To develop therapies to eradicate cancer stem cells.
To see whether positive tests for blood stem cells indicate risk of secondary tumours (metastases) so that more aggressive treatment can be instigated.
Through our research we intend to isolate and so detect any stem cells in the blood and in primary tumour tissue excised during a patient's operation.
This will be done by targeting tumour cell surface markers, using a powerful antibody directed against 'c-Met' produced by the Belgian company arGEN-X.
This antibody has been shown to inhibit the growth of human tumour grafts, and to kill the stem cells within them by recruiting the help of two different factors in blood, 'complement' and/or white blood cells (known as 'natural killer cells').
In addition to researching detection, we will grow the stem cells and test the survival of the progeny cultured again with the c-Met antibody.
As a back-up, we will also test with tiny gold nanoparticles developed by Midatech Ltd – coated with epithelial growth factor or folic acid to get the particles into the cells – alongside small drug inhibitors of c-Met or conventional chemotherapy drugs.
We will compare the effects on newly-generated stem cells and any differentiated tumour cells.
We will also compare the stem cells with their parent tumour cells for their ability to penetrate a human skin model, as an indicator of metastatic potential.
T.
Lund , Research Associate – Isolation and killing of stem cells
Song Wen , Research Associate – Growing and identifying cancer stem cells
Clinician, Imperial NHS Trust & St.
George's Hospital – Provision of clinical material
Polyoma virus infection can transform normal into cancer cells and this has been an important model system in deciphering the basic mechanisms underlying all human cancers.
The polyoma viral oncogene, MT, acts as an analogue of an activated growth factor receptor.
Mutated receptors play a part in generating most cancers, so understanding MT's function will help decipher how these receptors work during cancer formation and hopefully provide clues to reversing this action.
We have recently identified a nanocluster containing MT on the surface of polyoma virus-transformed cells that is essential for its cancer forming action.
We plan to purify these MT containing complexes and identify the constituents using our mass spectrometry facilities.
This is an essential prerequisite to searching for novel therapeutic inhibitors.
1) Identify the components of the virally-induced cancer-forming complex
2) Use the information to devise new therapeutic agents.
Dilworth Leader
Research Assistant Analysis of complex
Colorectal cancer is one of the most common forms of cancer.
While the primary tumour can be surgically removed or ablated by radiotherapy, neither procedure is able to eliminate secondary metastatic growths at distant sites.
Therapy with cytotoxic drugs (chemotherapy) can hunt down these metastases but there are most unpleasant side-effects due to the drugs attacking non-tumour sites.
We aim to deliver cytotoxic drugs to the tumours selectively by attaching the drugs to minute gold particles, or 'nanoparticles' (5 million = 1 cm).
The nanoparticles will targeted specifically at the surface of the cancer cell and the drug released intracellularly, exactly in the location for it to be effective (see cancer targeting illustration above).
This will have the double advantage of being highly successful at killing the cancer cells while causing minimal side-effects, as the non-tumour sites are left alone.
Professor I M Roitt – Lead
Dr T Lund – Cellular targeting of gold nanoparticles
Midatech Ltd  – Tuning gold nanoparticles
Despite improvements in the screening and treatment, for 30% of women diagnosed with invasive breast cancer these tumours will spread to other tissues.
Tumour growth and spreading is caused by a series of growth factors.
The activity of these factors is brought about by interactions with a series of heparin-like molecules termed glycosaminoglycans (GAGs), found in connective tissue.
Some of these heparin-like molecules encourage growth factors, whereas others appear to block growth factor effects.
Dr Hills and his team have identified the presence of several of these GAGs in breast cancer cells along with the expression of the growth factors to which they bind.
In addition, they have identified mechanisms by which GAGs may control key features of tumour development.
They are currently investigating how subtle changes in the structure of these molecules alter their effect on tumour progression.
1) See whether detection of large quantities of certain GAGs detect early stage breast cancer.
2) Identify structural differences to determine whether a heparin-like molecule promotes or inhibits  tumour growth.
Dr Frank Hills Project leader
Research Associate In vitro lab studies
Research Associate Molecular characterisation and nanoparticle conjugation
Histopathologist Cancer tissues
Professor Richard Bayford and colleagues developed and patented a straightforward method for immunological detection of biomarkers, in particular the tumour growth factor chorionic gonadotrophin (see Autocrine tumour growth factors).
The gold electrode is coated with an agent which can specifically bind to a selected cancer biomarker in patient's blood so when the serum is added, the layer coating the electrode is increased in thickness and there is a change in electrical resistance which can be readily measured.
The device can incorporate several electrodes, each of which can detect a different cancer biomarker.
The simplicity of the device means that it could readily be used in a doctor's surgery or a public pharmacy, or even in a room adjoining a clinic to give both doctor and patient a rapid diagnosis enabling earlier instigation of therapy and relieving the patient of an agonising wait for the results.
1)  Development of a compact, economical device for early detection and/or monitoring therapy of cancer suitable for Point of Care use.
2)  Commercialisation of the device for use in cancer, allergy and even heart disease.
Bayford Team Leader
A Tizzard Technical support
Research Associate Biophysics development
U.C.L.
Engineer Hardware development
Nottingham University Provision of sera
Tumour cells release unique breakdown components into the blood; known as biological markers (biomarkers), these can be used as to diagnose cancer.
The immune system, confronted with these unusual biomarkers, often reacts to make antibodies (autoantibodies) against them.
Professor Robertson's group at Nottingham University have shown that the presence of these autoantibodies can signal the early onset of cancer.
A company based on their findings measures several of these antibodies in the serum of patients as a diagnostic service, each measurement being a separate test.
Professor Roitt and his team have developed a generic system in which each serum undergoes multiple tests (multiplexing) in a single well of a 96-well plate containing an array of spots, each of which functions as an individual test (see illustration).
The system was patented and published in Clinical Chemistry (2008), and a company, NALIA Systems Ltd, formed.
To show that the NALIA array provides a very economical alternative to the current Nottingham system for multiple autoantibody tests diagnosing early cancer.
To improve the sensitivity and specificity of tests for early cancer diagnosis by recognition of novel biomarker patterns.
This will enable earlier therapy, improving the outcome for patients.
To seek commercial exploitation of the findings to support further research.
The Nottingham group are keen to collaborate with our Middlesex team who, when funding is available, will create arrays using the NALIA system to combine the various autoantibody tests into a single multiplexed operation.
Subsequently, we will try to identify new autoantibodies.
The search for tumour-related small metabolites on biomarkers in serum and urine by mass spectroscopy (metabolomics) is a relatively unexplored area; Dr Shah is highly experienced in the use of this technology and has the sophisticated equipment needed here in the University.
By adding results from arrays for the original tumour components with those from autoantibody arrays and metabolomics, plus analysis of the raised DNA in patients' blood (with a close colleague, Professor I.
Cree, Head of Pathology at Warwick University Hospital), we would accumulate a very large number of different results for each patient.
This would allow identification of novel patterns by a process called 'neural network analysis'; these should provide new, highly sensitive and accurate diagnosis of many different types of cancer at an early stage.
Starting therapy then will greatly improve prospects for patients.
Dr S.
Butler – Project leader
Dr A.
Shah – Metabolomics (Mass Spec)
Professor I.M.
Roitt – Scientific support
Dr Y.
Yatsenko – Postgraduate Research Assistant
Tumours of the skin are particularly accessible to imaging.
We will initiate these studies together with a Consultant Dermatologist who in the normal course of investigation, would biopsy suspected growths.
Targeting tumour cells with drug-coated gold nanoparticles (see Colorectal cancer therapy ) would seem to be an attractive proposition, given their accessibility to delivery through skin patches, a technology which Midatech has developed.
This would obviate the need for systemic infusion.
We will construct nanoparticles coated with a tumour-seeking ligand and a chemotherapeutic drug linked in such a way as to be released within the intracellular environment.
These nanoparticles with different ligands would be tested on cell lines, cells derived from operation specimens, and in 3-dimensional skin models in vitro using a technique employed by Dr.
Lucy Ghali.
We will also investigate application of a recent publication showing that gold nanoparticles themselves would penetrate skin when applied topically and allow simultaneous entry of a co-administered protein.
Clearly, we should look at the possibility of delivery of a co-administered independent cytotoxic drug.
1)  Verifying the applicability of a probe for skin cancer imaging.
2)  Delivery of topical therapeutic gold nanoparticles to skin tumours.
3)  Ultimately, extend the unconventional delivery of gold nanoparticles to breast cancer, and  inhalation for lung cancer.
Ghali Leader
Dong Li Histological assessment
Ph.D.
student Producing and testing gnp on cells and reconstructed skin in vitro
Dermatology MD student Testing probe
Agaiby Skin imaging and provision of operation sample
Dermatology: Consultant Northwick Pk.
Stephen Butler, together with Professor Ray Iles, made the fascinating discovery that many cancer cells secreted a variant of the human pregnancy hormone, chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG), which bizarrely acted as a growth promoter for the very cells that produced it – we call it an autocrine growth promoter.
As might be expected, antibody raised by vaccination with hCG neutralised the growth-promoting properties of this factor.
Professor Roitt & Dr.
Lund and their colleagues, while at U.C.L., constructed a mutant of hCG which not only produced more effected antibodies than the native protein, but also essentially eliminated one of the undesirable side-effects which was to cross-react with another important hormone, luteinizing hormone.
We now wish to develop an exciting, new, potentially very high effective vaccine platform to improve the ability of the hCG mutant to generate an excellent antibody response.
Together with Midatech Ltd., a company with expertise in the production of minute gold nanoparticles (see also Colorectal cancer therapy) we intend to attach these particles coated with agents essential for boosting the antibody response to the hCG.
Butler Lead role
I.M.
Roitt Scientific support
student Antibody analysis
N.
Porakishvili Mutant production (Westminster Uni.) Vaccine testing (Georgia, Tbilisi)
Nanoparticle production
It is well established that infection with certain strains of the papilloma virus is responsible for the majority of cases of cervical cancer.
Drs.
Wen & L.
Ghali have demonstrated that they can identify an involvement of the virus in a given tumour by immunohistochemical staining (revealing a molecule in a tissue section through binding of an antibody linked to a colour-producing moiety) of paraffin embedded tumour tissue and by DNA analysis.
The team has preliminary evidence that the virus can be detected in a minority of breast cancer patients from Austria and Nigeria and they wish to follow this up with a larger well-defined population, looking also to probe the possibility of there being a genetic predisposition to this subsection of breast and other cancers (e.g.
major histocompatibility complex genes).
Identify tumour types not previously linked to papilloma virus.
Wen Leader
Dong Li Immunohistochemistry
Infections with high-risk human papilloma viruses (HPVs), causatively linked to cervical cancer, might also play a role in the development of prostate cancer due to the proximity in the type of the cervical transitional zone epithelium and prostate epithelium per se in terms of the histological characteristics and the embryologic origin.
Infection with a number of human polyomaviruses  has been described (BKV, JCV, KIPyV, MUPyV & MCPyV) and some have been associated with tumour development, for example, it has been suggested that BK is associated with brain tumours, adenocarcinomas, and prostate carcinomas.
As is the case for all polyomaviruses, BKV encodes two proteins that deregulate the ability of the cell to control its growth, namely 'large' and 'small' T antigens.
BKV, like JCV and the similar simian virus, SV40, is recognised as a tumour virus because of its ability to cause changes in cell growth and tumour formation in cultured cells and animal models, respectively.
BKV and JCV oncogenically transform non-permissive rodent cells in culture and immortalize permissive human cells alone or in the presence of other oncogenes.
We will examine prostate cancer operation specimens for evidence of viral infection and relate this to the clinical status of the patient.
1) To establish the prevalence of infection with human papillomaviruses and polyomaviruses in prostate cancer.
2) To find out if there is any correlation between viral load or genome expression and the clinical grading on the hyperplasia or tumour.
Christopher Ring Leader
Mahmoud Naase Scientific support
student Analyse clinical samples for viral infection
Persad (Bristol) Provide clinical samples
Conventional imaging to screen for cancer typically uses MRI – a vastly expensive procedure not necessarily available outside main centres, particularly in second and third world countries.
We aim to develop a low cost device especially for screening for rectal and prostate cancers, and for monitoring treatment.
Led by expert in the field Professor Bayford, we are developing a new probe using Electrical Impedance Tomography (EIT) – a very low cost imaging system that can be used to detect abnormal tissue such as a tumour.
With EIT, a series of electrodes are placed over the area to be imaged, inducing minute electric currents.
The pattern of the currents is then mapped by sophisticated mathematical analysis to reveal any abnormal tissue, such as a tumour.
A portable probe based on this principle has been developed for detection of cervical cancer by Zilico Ltd., a small firm in Sheffield.
We are adapting this idea to create a small circular inflatable device consisting of a ring of electrodes with an inbuilt camera; this will fit into the anus to detect any overt or underlying rectal cancer growths.
During development the accuracy of the system will be checked against conventional imaging with MRI.
Once developed, the device will be adapted for the detection of prostate cancer.
Professor R.
Bayford – Project leader
Tizzard – Technical support
Research Associate – Testing device in lab and clinic
Professor A.
Demosthenes – Design of electrodes (UCL)
A.N.Other – Design of hardware (UCL)
Mr G Buchanan – Provide patients (Imperial)
Radiologist – Parallel imaging MRI (Imperial normal NHS assessment)
Zilico Ltd.
– Technical support
The strategy for targeting colorectal cancers described in Colorectal cancer therapy will be applied to targeting prostate cancers using gold nanoparticles and liposomes.
Efficient targeting of drugs to cancer cells without the unpleasant systemic effects of the free drug.
Ivan Roitt Project Leader
Torben Lund Research Fellow
Scarlet Wang Research Associate

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-groups/centre-for-abuse-trauma-and-suicide-studies-cats:
Advancing Technology, Safety and Wellbeing in a Complex Digital Age
Centre for Abuse, Trauma & Suicide Studies (CATS) is an interdisciplinary research centre at Middlesex University focused on trauma, abuse and wellbeing related topics such as suicide prevention across the lifespan.
The Centre combines the expertise of Psychology, Criminology and Computer Sciences to conduct rigorous, ethical and community-relevant research.
CATS addresses issues of abuse, adversity and trauma and their impacts on victims, perpetrators, and professionals’ mental health and wellbeing.
Much of the work is digitally and internet-informed – examining new online harms and utilising innovative online methods for assessment.
At the same time, the Centre maintains a strong human focus, considering the lived experiences of those involved in abuse (including both survivors and practitioners) and ensuring research findings inform policy and professional practice for maximum impact.
In addition to research, CATS provides consultancy, practitioner training, media dissemination, and knowledge exchange on a broad range of trauma and wellbeing-related topics, helping to translate research into practice and policy improvements.
Founded in 2008 by Emeritus Professor Antonia Bifulco and Professor Julia Davidson OBE as the Centre for Abuse and Trauma Studies, CATS was re-launched in 2025 and has since been led by Co-Directors:
CATS conducts numerous research projects with practical impact.
Below is an exemplary list of projects (ongoing and completed) from the last few years:
Evaluation of new community-based suicide prevention hubs.
A £7m UKRI-funded collaboration led by KCL on improving population mental health and reducing inequalities.
An NIHR-funded study into the effectiveness and unintended consequences of suicide prevention technologies.
Working with National Highways and TRL to reduce road-related suicides and improve evaluation of interventions.
Research using new data sources to understand victim profiles and risk in sexual offense cases.
A Technology Coalition-funded project investigating the impact of exposure to child abuse materials on content moderators and developing interventions.
A Devon & Cornwall Police-funded project developing an algorithm to identify high-risk domestic abuse perpetrators and evaluating its implementation.
REPHRAIN-funded research (co-led by Prof.
Julia Davidson, UEL and Prof.
Martellozzo) examining the emerging metaverse and its potential risks to children, producing guidance for safer immersive digital environments.
An Innovate UK project creating an AI learning assistant to support neurodiverse professionals in cybersecurity (addressing Dyslexia, Dyscalculia, Dyspraxia, Dysgraphia).
Developing an AI-driven tool to harden Linux systems by intelligent configuration of kernel capabilities (minimising security vulnerabilities).
A proactive security assessment and threat-hunting solution for Linux Mandatory Access Controls, leveraging the MITRE ATT&CK framework funded by Innovate UK.
A toolkit integrating multiple testing strategies to uncover blind spots in machine learning systems, improving ML security and reliability.
Collaboration with West Midlands Police on using predictive modelling to prioritise high-harm stalking and harassment suspects.
Youth Justice Board pilot evaluation (with Prof.
Goodman) of a supervised housing scheme to reduce youth reoffending.
Major grant-funded evaluation of a new police tool for identifying stalking cases; in partnership with multiple UK police forces.
Development of web-based versions of CATS’s established assessments (in partnership with Youth-In-Mind) to enable efficient online delivery of trauma and attachment measures.
Mixed-method evaluation of a pilot programme for parents at risk of recurrent care proceedings, aimed at breaking cycles of child removal.
CATS has a wide network of institutional and project partners, reflecting its emphasis on applied research and knowledge exchange.
Key partners and collaborators include:
Centre for Abuse, Trauma & Suicide Studies (CATS), Middlesex University – Town Hall (TG47), The Burroughs, Hendon, London NW4 4BT.
For more details and current updates, please visit the CATS external website.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-groups/centre-for-critical-research-in-nursing-and-midwifery:
The Centre for Critical Research in Nursing and Midwifery (CCRNM) draws together researchers in nursing and midwifery within the School of Health and Education .
We define 'critical' as research approaches that challenge accepted norms, with the goal of exposing structures of power and domination.
Our research seeks to understand, uncover, illuminate and transform nursing and midwifery practice.
The Centre's mission is to become a prominent centre for influencing nursing and midwifery practice within today's NHS environment and beyond.
Our aims are to facilitate, co-ordinate and conduct high quality critical research in partnership with academic colleagues, healthcare providers, commissioners and other centres of excellence.
We provide a supportive and creative environment for doctoral research and welcomes applications for PhD and the Doctorate in Professional Studies (DProf) programmes.
We also supervise a range of part time and full time UK and international doctoral students
While we particularly welcome applications within the Centre's research themes, we will consider a wide range of doctoral projects within nursing and midwifery.
Our researchers have well-established relationships with many London NHS Trusts, Health Education England, North Central London CCG, NHSE, Capital Nurse, UCLH, London Spinal Cord Injury Centre, Royal National Orthopedic Hospital, Stoke Mandeville Hospital,  and other health and social care organisations, Breast cancer UK, Spinal cord injury charities.
We have worked closely on collaborative research projects with international partners including Health and Social Services Department (HSSD) Guernsey; Flinders University, Adelaide, Australia; Auckland University of Technology, New Zealand; University of Marshad, Iran; University of Greenwich, London; University of Nicosia, Cyprus; FuDan university, China; University of Barcelona, Spain and the University of Southern Denmark.
Example of continuing work with PhD Students and staff to develop research culture and outputs - Researching Racism in Nursing: book launch at the RCN.
The Learn and Earn career pathway (LECP) was established in 2017 following a pilot by Islington, Haringey and Camden community education provider networks (CEPNs) and is managed via Community Matters .
It attempted to address some of the perceived barriers to employers’ engagement with apprenticeships by means of administrative assistance, financial incentives and the development of a bespoke ‘apprenticeship-plus’ model where additional training, particularly clinical skills, are included within the offer.
Specifically, it was set up to promote the career pathway towards nursing and to explore the viability of using apprenticeships as a sustained funding source for training required to progress along the pathway.
Learn more about this project.
Principal investigator: Mike O'Driscoll
Co-investigators: Professor Michael Traynor, Professor Helen Allan
Funding amount: £10,000 funded by NCL
Principal investigator: Liang Q Liu, Sarah Knight, Helen Allan & Jacinta Kelly
Funding amount: £39,766.12 funded by British Skin Foundation
Principal investigator: Cariona Flaherty
Co-investigators: Fiona Suthers, Carmel Fitzsimons
Funding amount: Funded by UCLH
This is a NIHR ARC South London funded pre-doctoral project.
Principle Investigator: Evangeline Martinez, Royal National Orthopaedic Hospital NHS Trust
Supervisor/Mentor: Professor Pete Worsley, Dr Liang Q Liu
September 2013 to February 2014
Principal investigator: Dr Liang Q Liu
Co-investigators: Moody, Julie, Dyson, Sue E., Traynor, Michael and Gall, Angela (Royal National Orthopaedic Hospital)
Final publications: Liu, Liang Q.
, Moody, Julie and Gall, Angela (2016) A quantitative, pooled analysis and systematic review of controlled trials on the impact of electrical stimulation settings and placement on pressure ulcer healing rates in persons with spinal cord injuries.
Ostomy Wound Management , 62 (7).
pp.
16-34.
ISSN 0889-5899
Liu, Liang Q.
Moody, Julie, Dyson, Sue E., Traynor, Michael and Gall, Angela (2014) A systematic review of electrical stimulation for pressure ulcer prevention and treatment in people with spinal cord injuries.
Journal of Spinal Cord Medicine, 37 (6).
703-718.
ISSN 1079-0268 ( doi: 10.1179/2045772314Y.0000000226 )
October 2013 - July 2014
Principal investigator: Kathy Wilson Other investigators: Professor Michael Traynor, Dr Sinead Mehigan, Oznur Korukcu Funded by: HENCEL Funding amount: £70,000
Download project report
2014
The project aimed to provide HENCEL with a detailed review of progress of nursing research and development being delivered through the nurse consultant role across north central and east London.
We were able to conclude from the project that nurse consultants were created as an occupational position without an initial precise definition of their role.
Their numbers and precise remits have therefore developed organically, with no necessary agreed set of activities that define the role.
Principal investigators: Professor Michael Traynor, Professor Sue Dyson Other investigators : Dr Liang Liu Funded by: HENCEL
January 2015 - April 2015
A report commissioned by Health Education North Central and East London (HENCEL) and produced on behalf of the School of Health and Education, Middlesex University.
Principal investigator: Sinead Mehigan Other investigators: Kathy Wilson, Anki Odelius, Kevin Corbett, Jacqueline Grove Funded by: HENCEL
2014 - 2015
Principal investigator : Dr Liang Q Liu
Co-investigators : Dr Sinead Mehigan
Final report/publication: Liu, Liang Q.
and Mehigan, Sinead (2016) the effects of surgical hand scrubbing protocols on skin integrity and surgical site infection rates: a systematic review.
AORN journal , 103 (5).
468-482.
ISSN 0001-2092 (doi: 10.1016/j.aorn.2016.03.003 )
December 2014 - May 2015
A report commissioned by HENCEL and produced on behalf of Middlesex University, School of Health and Education.
Principal investigator: Professor Michael Traynor Other investigators: Dr Kevin Corbett, Dr Sinead Mehigan Funded by: Whittington Health and Health Education North Central and East London (HENCEL) Funding amount : £34,945
December 2014 - March 2015
Principal investigator: Dr Sinead Mehigan Other investigators: Professor Michael Traynor, Kathy Wilson Funded by: HENCEL
February 2015 - February 2016
Co-investigators: Dr Sarah Chapman (University of Bath), Dr Angela Gall (Royal National Orthopaedic Hospital), Ms Rachel Deegan (Royal National Orthopaedic Hospital), Dr Sarah Knight (Royal National Orthopaedic Hospital), Professor Michael Traynor, Professor Helen Allan
Funding: £2,000 funded by Hospital Saturday Funds Charity and £11,005 funded by Department of Adult, Child and Midwifery R&D funding to carry on a study in collaboration with London Spinal Cord Injury Centre, Royal National Orthopaedic Hospital.
, Chapman, Sarah, Deegan, Rachel, Knight, Sarah L.
, Traynor, Michael , Allan, Helen T.
and Gall, Angela (2020) Development and preliminary validation of a tool measuring concordance and belief about performing pressure-relieving activities for pressure ulcer prevention in spinal cord injury.
Journal of Tissue Viability .
ISSN 0965-206X (Published online first) (doi: 10.1016/j.jtv.2020.05.002 )
November 2014 - November 2016
Purpose of the study This research was a first step in developing and evaluating new evidence-based NHS services to support parents whose babies cry for prolonged amounts of time.
It aimed to find out whether a large-scale study is justified.
Investigators Principal investigator: Professor Ian St James-Roberts
Other investigators
Professor Stephen Morris (University College London) Dr Rosemary Garratt (De Montfort University) Professor Sue Dyson (Middlesex University) Ms Nicy Turney (Leicestershire Partnership NHS Trust) Ms Christine Buzzard (Leicestershire Partnership NHS Trust) Dr Elaine Boyle (University of Leicester) Ms Rachel Plachcinski ( National Childbirth Trust ) Ms Sally Rudge (Consultant Clinical Psychologist) Mr Charles Owen (Institute of Education) Mrs Jan Bullen (Chairperson of Cry-sis )
Funded by: NIHR
Collaborating partners: Middlesex University, De Montfort University, Institute of Education at  University of London, Leicestershire Partnership Trust, Cry-sis
Principal investigator: Liang Q Liu
Co-investigators: Angela Gall, Sarah Knight, Professor Helen Allan
November 2015 - April 2016
Purpose of the study
A feasibility study to test the design of an intervention study to evaluate the nurse delegation and supervision tool (NDST) in general medical care of frail elderly patients.
Investigators
Principal investigator: Professor Helen T Allan (PI) Other investigators: Dr Carin Magnusson (University of Surrey) and Dr Kit Tapson and Dr Liang Liu (Middlesex University, CCRNM) Collaborators: Dr Maggie Davies (West Sussex Hospitals Foundation Trust - Worthing) Funded by: Burdett Trust for Nursing
Download the project report
September 2015 - September 2016
Purpose of the study A project exploring volunteering in the UK and Ghana, its current scope and impact and how positive attitudes toward volunteering can be incorporated into pedagogic practice.
The aim of the project is to create a development package to support undergraduate nursing students on their programmes, include volunteering in everyday life, and assist academic staff in incorporating volunteerism into their nursing programmes.
Investigators Collaborators: Professor Sue Dyson, Professor Olga van den Akker, Dr Sheila Cunningham, Dr Liang Liu (Middlesex University) and the  University of Ghana Funded by: Middlesex University Department of Adult, Child and Midwifery Research and Knowledge, and Transfer Incentives Monies
2016 - 2017
Co-investigators: Dr Sinead Mehigan, Mr Branford, Olivier A
, Branford, Olivier A.
and Mehigan, Sinead (2018) BREAST-Q measurement of the patient perspective in oncoplastic breast surgery: a systematic review.
Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery-Global Open, 6 (8).
e1904.
ISSN 2169-7574 (doi: 10.1097/GOX.0000000000001904 )
February 2017 - December 2018
Principal investigator: Dr Q Cheng (Queen Mary University London), Professor Y Hao (Queen Mary University, London) Co-investigator: Dr Liang Qin Liu, Dr A Gall (Royal National Orthopaedic Hospital), Dr S Knight (Royal National Orthopaedic Hospital)
Funded by : MDVSN plus (Medical Device and Vulnerable Skin Network plus, EPSRC-NIHR partnership) in collaboration with Queen Mary University London Funding amount: £48,000
Download report: Evaluation of an Online Screen based Simulation Initiative
In April 2020 the adult child midwifery (ACM) department at Middlesex University started using online screen-based simulation (OSBS) software sourced from Oxford Medical Simulation[1] (OMS).
OMS was originally designed to be used with virtual reality hardware and delivered in the classroom setting.
However, due to COVID-19 restrictions the delivery of the programme was remote and online only i.e.
students participated in these simulations on their own computers, and mostly at home
This simulation platform places students into a virtual ward or single bedded area, students are then able to control their environment and interact with the surrounding equipment as in clinical practice.
There is a usually a support worker present in the room who the student can interact and communicate with.
Each of the simulations features a patient presenting with a specific medical condition with certain scenarios also involving patients presenting with a variety of social or psychological issues.
The student is then required to undertake a clinical assessment of that patient, using their clinical knowledge to draw conclusions and make decisions regarding patient care within a safe environment
Principal investigator: Mike O’Driscoll
Co-investigators: Professor Michael Traynor
Learning objectives for 3rd Year (adult and children and young people) nursing students who were to go into practice earlier than anticipated (through an opt in 'extended placement') because of the increased need for staff as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic: included
The OSBS initiative was also aimed at adult and children and young people third year nursing students who did not opt for the 'extended placement' and with adult and children and young people second year students; mental health nursing students (2nd and 3rd year); nursing associates (2nd year); third year midwifery students and PG Dip 2nd year students.
For these groups there were slightly different learning objectives:
The response rate to the online survey was 25% (617 students invited, 154 wholly or partially completed questionnaires obtained).
13 students took part across two online focus groups.
Seven members of staff took part in an online focus group and one took part in a one to one interview (as they had been unable to attend the focus group).
There is strong evidence of the OSBS learning objectives having been met, particularly from survey evidence regarding which skills students perceived they had gained which could be transferred into practice and learning outcomes or objectives they felt they had achieved, and this is supported by focus group evidence.
A very large majority of respondents felt that they had gained skills in making clinical decisions based on their observations and prior knowledge; escalating issues to senior members of staff and using time effectively across different activities.
Respondents were very positive (mean ratings above four on a scale of 1 to 5 about the last scenario participated in, on a range of measures including realism, usefulness and overall satisfaction.
Most respondents did not consider  there were serious barriers to their participation in OSBS and there were no statistically significant differences in perceived barriers to participation by scenario, age, learning style, programme or year of programme and few differences on gender.
However, a considerable limitation of the evaluation is that those who took part in the evaluation had participated in the OSBS (i.e.
those who experienced barriers  (or did not like OSBS for whatever  reason) were under-represented in the evaluation)/
Download full report: Evaluation of an Online Screen based Simulation Initiative
Co-investigators: Ms Jacinta Kelly, Professor Mariachiara, Di Cesare,  Professor Michael Traynor, Professor Helen Allan
Funded by: Burdett Trust for Nursing and Middlesex university research fund
Funding amount: £8,600 (£6,540 + £2,060)
Completed: October 2021
The project report, funded by The Burdett Trust for Nursing and Middlesex university internal research fund, explores the knowledge, attitudes, and experiences of healthcare support workers in pressure ulcer (PrU) prevention, a prevalent issue in healthcare settings with substantial personal and financial impacts.
The study used a mixed-method approach, comprising both quantitative surveys and qualitative focus groups, to examine the attitudes and practical knowledge of healthcare support workers like Health Care Assistants (HCAs), Nursing Associates (NAs), and Trainee Nursing Associates (TNAs).
The findings highlight a significant knowledge gap in PrU prevention among healthcare support workers.
Although the participants demonstrated positive attitudes toward prevention, their practical knowledge scores were relatively low, with particular weaknesses in understanding ulcer aetiology, risk assessment, and effective interventions.
Key themes emerged, including the need for enhanced communication, structured guidelines, and multidisciplinary teamwork to improve PrU care delivery.
Challenges cited were inadequate formal training, heavy workloads, and resource constraints, which limited effective PrU care.
The report calls for formalized, continuous training, integrating support workers into a multidisciplinary approach, and possibly enhancing the autonomy of skilled support workers.
The study suggests further research on a national scale to assess these issues broadly and underscores the need for structured educational programs tailored to support workers’ roles, aiming to optimize their contributions to PrU prevention and patient care quality.
Publications related to this project are: Liu, Liang Q., Kelly, Jacinta, Di Cesare, Mariachiara , Allan, Helen T.
and Traynor, Michael (2023)  Healthcare Support Workers Reflect on their Experiences of Pressure Ulcer Prevention.
--- submitted in September 2023.
A Qualitative Exploratory Study.
Currently is under review by Journal of Wound Care.
Manuscript ID jowc.2023.0252 Liu, Liang Q., Kelly, Jacinta, Di Cesare, Mariachiara , Allan, Helen T.
and Traynor, Michael (2023) The knowledge and attitudes regarding pressure ulcer prevention among healthcare support workers in the UK: a cross-sectional study.
2023;32(1):130-135.
doi:10.1016/j.jtv.2022.11.004 ISSN 0965-206X Liu, Liang Q., Kelly, Jacinta., Di Cesare, Mariachiara., Allan, Helen T.
and Traynor, Michael.
Healthcare Support Workers Reflect on their Experiences of Pressure Ulcer Prevention.
--- A Qualitative Exploratory Study.
Society of Tissue Viability (SoTV) 2023 Annual Conference in Peterborough, 26 – 27 April 2023.
Liu, Liang Q., Kelly, Jacinta, Di Cesare, Mariachiara.
, Allan, Helen T.
and Traynor, Michael (2022) The knowledge and attitudes regarding pressure ulcer prevention among healthcare support workers in the UK: a cross-sectional study.
In: Society of Tissue Viability 2022 Conference: Solving skin and wound challenges together, 18-19 May 2022, Glasgow, UK.
.
[Conference or Workshop Item]
Co-investigator: Dr Sinead Mehigan
Final report: Liu, L.
and Mehigan, S.
2021.
A systematic review of interventions used to enhance implementation of and compliance with the World Health Organization Surgical Safety Checklist in adult surgery.
AORN Journal.
114 (2), pp.
159-170.
https://doi.org/10.1002/aorn.13469
This study is in collaboration with London Spinal Cord Injury Centre, Royal National Orthopaedic Hospital.
Awarded in May 2017.The project was registered as a NIHR Portfolio study NHS Trust, and National Spinal Injury Centre, Stoke Mandeville Hospital NHS Trust.
Aim and objectives: To assess the effectiveness of early intervention using text messaging as a reminder regarding concordance to ‘pressure relief’ regimen.
To examine the effectiveness of early intervention using text messaging for pressure ulcer prevention.
Co-investigators: Dr Angela Gall (Royal National Orthopaedic Hospital), Ms Rachel Deegan (Royal National Orthopaedic Hospital), Dr Sarah Knight (Royal National Orthopaedic Hospital), Ms Hester Dunne (Stoke Mandeville Hospital) Professor Helen Allan
Funded by: Rosetrees Trust.
Funding amount: £18,491
Completed: December 2022
Publications related to this project are: Liu, Liang Q.
, Deegan, Rachel, Dunne, Hester Knight, Sarah L., Allan, Helen T.
and Gall, Angela "A pilot study for testing feasibility and preliminary influence of early intervention using text messaging for pressure ulcer prevention in individuals with spinal cord injury." Journal of Tissue Viability (2024).
In press
, Deegan, Rachel, Knight, Sarah L., Chapman, Sarah, Traynor, Michael , Allan, Helen T.
and Gall, Angela (2019) Early intervention for pressure ulcer prevention in people living with spinal cord injury who are newly discharged from hospital: A preliminary report.
In: Tissue Viability Society annual conference 2019, Southampton, 1-2 May 2019.
Ongoing project:
Project title: Manage risk of pressure ulcer in people living with a Spinal Cord Injury
Awarded in May 2023 .The project was registered as a NIHR Portfolio study
Co-investigators: Dr Sarah Knight (Royal National Orthopaedic Hospital), Ms Jacinta Kelly, Ms Evangeline MARTINEZ (ROYAL NATIONAL ORTHOPAEDIC HOSPITAL NHS TRUST), Professor Helen Allan
Funded by: British Skin Foundation
Amount of funding: £39,766
Principal investigator: Professor Helen Allan
Co-investigators: S Drakapoulou, MT
Partners: NCL
Forthcoming paper: Interprofessional and inter-organisational collaboration in the COVID 19 vaccination programme in NCL.
Behind the Screens: Stories from the Covid Vaccination Programme in North Central London
Co-investigators: Sinead Mehigan
Final report: Liu, Liang Q, and Mehigan, Sinead  Comparing Surgical Site Infection With and Without the Use of Forced-Air Warming Devices During Surgical Procedures: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.
AORN Accepted in December 2024.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-groups/centre-for-enterprise-environment-and-development-research-ceedr:
Welcome to the Centre for Enterprise, Environment and Development Research (CEEDR).
Our research operates at the heart of the economy to build stronger communities, by exploring small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs), social enterprises  and sustainable businesses in the UK and internationally.
With the challenges facing the economy, society and the planet, our research in particularly explores the dynamics of responsible, resilient and sustainable businesses aiming to provide good work, inclusive prosperity, innovation, wellbeing and a regenerative economy.
Follow CEEDR on X
CEEDR Facebook page
Our work has an established reputation for high quality, independence and meaningful impact in business and place based economic development policy and practice.
We work internationally and ensure our work reflects local contexts wherever it has an impact.
Key research and impact themes comprise:
CEEDR works with a range of associates within Middlesex University, in other organisations.
Our work cuts across disciplines and often involves co-production with practice and policy focused organisations.
View all CEEDR associate staff
The Centre for Enterprise and Economic Development Research (CEEDR), is a leading academic research centre based within Middlesex University's Business School.
We offer postgraduate research degree programmes with dedicated supervision which can be studied either full-time or part-time.
As one of our research students you will be part of a community of scholars and academics assisting you to complete your programme successfully.
You will also be part of a developmental program proving advice and guidance needed to an academic career and for maximising the impact of your work through knowledge exchange.
We welcome PhD and DProf applications in relation to the following core research areas:
Social and sustainable enterprise
Small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) growth, innovation and finance
Local/regional economic development and regeneration
Employment, skills and the quality of work.
For further discussion of PhD possibilities, please contact Leandro Sepulveda .
Postgraduate researcher
Title of study
Main supervisor (Second Supervisor)
Sarah Schmid
Immigrant entrepreneur breakout in a transnational environment: a case study of Nigerian immigrant entrepreneurs in the United Kingdom
Gender roles and the business/household nexus: women’s entrepreneurship in Sao Paulo, Brazil
Lisa Borley
The role of the environmental health inspection process as a developmental influence on small businesses
Ian Vickers (Alan Page)
Stanislaus Maduka
SME finance in Nigeria
Leandro Sepulveda (Robyn Owen)
Maria Irurita
Fergus Lyon (Ian Vickers)
Salman Khan
Stephen Syrett (Janroj Keles)
Valentina Moretta
Territorial capital and economic development across the Italian regions
Stephen Syrett (Leandro Sepulveda)
Anthony Ayakwah
Internationalisation of SME Clusters in Ghana: The Case of Palm and Citrus Industries in the  Eastern Region
Leandro Sepulveda (Fergus Lyon)
Abdullah Al Faruq
Understanding Social Enterprise Growth: The Case of Bangladesh
Ian Vickers (Fergus Lyon)
Ade Babayemi
Difficulties of Access to Business Finance by Black Afro-Caribbean Entrepreneurs in London
David North (Ignatius Ekanem)
Ricardo Raimundo
The Development of Learning Capabilities in High Growth Small and Medium Size Enterprises in Portugal
Stephen Syrett (Ian Vickers)
Bianca Stumbitz
Older social entrepreneurs - contribution, potential and support needs (ESRC CASE studentship with Unltd)
Isaac Amoako
SME Exporting Determinants: The Power of Institutions on Networking and Performance in a Developing Country
Fergus Lyon (Leandro Sepulveda)
Sara Calvo
The Role of Ethnic Minority Related Social Enterprises in the London 2012 Olympics and Paralympic Games Legacy (ESRC CASE studentship with Ethnic Minority Foundation)
When delivering contract research we work closely with our clients to produce rigorous outputs meeting their needs.
We offer a wide range of consultancy research services, from policy and strategic evaluations through to primary and secondary data collection, analysis and action research.
Our activities are funded by grant-based research from bodies such as the Economic and Social Research Council and the Joseph Rowntree Foundation, and contract research commissioned by clients that include national government departments, international organisations and a range of local and regional bodies.
If you'd like to learn more about our research, academic staff or publications, please contact us:
Email: f.lyon@mdx.ac.uk Tel: 020 8411 6856
Email: p.macaulay@mdx.ac.uk Tel: 020 8411 5460
CEEDR Middlesex University Business School The Burroughs Hendon London NW4 4BT United Kingdom fax: (+44) (0) 20 8411 6607

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-groups/centre-for-research-into-creation-in-the-performing-arts-rescen:
ResCen – the Centre for Research into Creation in the Performing Arts – is a multi-disciplinary, artist-driven collaboration where academia meets the professional performance art world.
Based at Middlesex University, we immerse ourselves in the study of the 'artist at work', examining the creative process that guides us from an idea to a finished piece – and then documenting and sharing this research to art communities, across all disciplines, and across all borders.
We also contribute to national and international policy and strategy debates that are igniting within the arts, helping us to challenge traditional creative methods of thinking and redefining what it means to be an artist working in the world today.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-groups/drug-and-alcohol-research-centre:
The Drug and Alcohol Research Centre (DARC) is a multi-disciplinary centre engaging staff across the Schools and Faculties of Health and Education, Law, Business, and Science and Technology.
The Centre began in 2010 and aims to support high quality research relevant to policy, practice and teaching.
It has established a wide network of associated members, independent researchers, NGOs, and service providers, and facilitates cross-national research and knowledge exchange.
DARC supports postgraduate research students and staff teach on a range of master programmes.
Current co-directors are Betsy Thom , Karen Duke and Camille Alexis-Garsee .
Follow us on X: @DARC_Mdx
National Institute of Health Research (NIHR): Innovation Fund to Reduce Demand for Illicit Substances, Phase 2: Realist evaluation of the feasibility of a school-based, multi-component Drug Education Programme (REAL-DEP), 1 September 2024-31 August 2025, Betsy Thom (PI), Karen Duke (Co-I), Camille Alexis-Garsee (Co-I)
National Institute of Health Research (NIHR): Innovation Fund to Reduce Demand for Illicit Substances, Phase I, Developing and refining a universal, multi-component drug education programme for 13-15 year olds, in collaboration with Daniel Spargo-Mabbs Foundation (March-October 2023), Betsy Thom (PI), Karen Duke (Co-I), Camille Alexis-Garsee (Co-I)
National Institute of Health Research (NIHR): Innovation Fund to Reduce Demand for Illicit Substances, Phase I, Evaluation of 1625 Outreach Service for young people, in collaboration with Change, Grow, Live (March-October 2023), Karen Duke, Betsy Thom
Change, Grow, Live: Feasibility Study to Evaluate 1625 Outreach Service for young people in Derbyshire, (April 2024-April 2025), Karen Duke, Betsy Thom and Arun Sondhi
Internal: Approaches to MDMA-Assisted Couples Therapy Among “Underground” Practitioners: A Qualitative Study.
Avruch, D., Allan, R., & Anderson, K.
(August 2023, ongoing)
Internal: Association Between Lifetime Ecstasy Use and Social Support and Social Functioning.
Anderson, K.
(September 2023, ongoing).
HEIF Small Grants 2023-24:  Co-create guidance/tools for developing harm reduction approaches in universities.
In collaboration with Students Organising for Sustainability SOS-UK, Karen Duke, Betsy Thom, Camille Alexis-Garsee, Katie Anderson, Naomi Graham, Mike Dines
Ministry of Justice, Rapid Evidence Assessment:  Understanding the Effectiveness of Substance Misuse Treatment in Prisons on Justice and Social Outcomes, Karen Duke and Arun Sondhi (August-November 2023)
Qatar Medical Research Council: The ethno-cultural, psychological and treatment profiles of people who use alcohol and drugs in Qatar, Consultancy Betsy Thom, Karen Duke, Arun Sondhi (June 2023-December 2027),
EU CHAFEA Health Programme:  EPPIC (Exchanging Prevention Practices on Polydrug Use among Youth in Criminal Justice Systems): Project co-ordinator; involving partners from Denmark, Italy, Poland, Austria and Germany.
Betsy Thom, Karen Duke, Helen Gleeson (2017-2020)
Foster J.H.
and Thom B.
(available Feb.
2025) Substance Use and Policy, a) Minimum unit pricing; b) Decriminalising, ch 9.
In Morgan J.
and La Placa V.
(eds) Contemporary issues in Health and Social Care Policy and Practice.
A comparative introduction.
Routledge, London.
Duke, K.
and MacGregor, S.
(2024).
Responding to ‘wicked problems’: policy and governance on drug-related deaths in English and Welsh prisons, 2015-2021 .
International Journal of Drug Policy.
126.
Lightowlers, C.
and Duke, K.
The framing of contemporary violence policy in England and Wales: an examination of the contributing roles of alcohol and illegal drugs .
Nordic Studies on Alcohol and Drugs.
Anderson, K., Elf, P., & Isham, A.
Psychedelics as a tool for a more connected and sustainable world?
Considering the importance of rituals, boundaries, and commitment .
International Journal of Drug Policy , 133 , 104571.
Neubert, J.
J., Anderson, K., & Mason, N.
Psychedelic intimacy: Altered states of consciousness in romantic relationships .
Journal of Psychedelic Studies , 8 (2), 219-232.
Duke, K., Gleeson, H., Dabrowska, K., Herold, M., Rolando, S.
and Thom, B.
(2023).
Building cultures of participation: involving young people in contact with the criminal justice system in the development of drug interventions in the United Kingdom, Denmark, Italy and Poland .
Youth Justice.
23 (1), pp.
97-116.
Duke, K., Gleeson, H., MacGregor, S.
T he risk matrix : drug-related deaths in prisons in England and Wales, 2015-2020 .
Journal of Community Psychology.
2023.
Thom B., Annand F., Clancy C., Whittaker A., Janiszewska I.
The role of UK alcohol and drug (AOD) nurses in a changing workforce.
Drugs: Education Prevention and Policy DOI: 10.1080/09687637.2023.2266554
Kolind, T.
(2022).
Exploring the motivations and social organisation of intoxication in prison settings.
in: Hunt, G., Antin, T.
and Asmussen Frank, V.
(ed.) Routledge Handbook of Intoxicants and Intoxication Routledge.
191-202
MacGregor S.
(2022) Risk, intoxication and death: contemporary media framing of drug-related deaths.
In: Hunt G., Antin T.M.J., and Frank V.A.
(eds.) Handbook of Intoxicants and Intoxication
and Thom B .
Older Drinkers: Alcohol consumption, drinking context and “successful ageing.” In Alcohol, Age, Generation and the Life Course.
Thurnell- Reid T and Fenton L (eds), Palgrave MacMillan.
and Duke K.
Exchanging Prevention practices on Polydrug use among youth In Criminal justice systems (EPPIC) Chapter 8 in: How to Manage International Multidisciplinary Research Projects .
Hantrais L.
(ed) Edward Elgar Publishing Ltd.
and Trebilcock, J.
‘Keeping a lid on it’: exploring ‘problematisations’ of prescribed medication in prisons in the UK .
100, pp.
1-10.
Rolando, S., Beccaria, F.
(2021).
Trajectories of drug involvement among young people in contact with criminal justice systems in six European countries.
in: Chatwin, C., Potter, G.
and Werse, B.
(ed.) Who?
Variation and distinction in the European drugs landscape Lengerich, Germany Pabst Publishers.
127-145
Frank, V., Rolando, S., Thom, B., Beccaria, F., Duke, K.
and Herold, M.
Editorial DEPP: drug experienced young people in contact with the criminal justice system.
Understanding the challenges and working towards solutions.
Drugs: Education, Prevention, and Policy.
28 (1), pp.
1-6.
https://doi.org/10.1080/09687637.2020.1825627
Duke, K., Gleeson, H., Dabrowska, K., Herold, M.
and Rolando, S.
The engagement of young people in drug interventions in coercive contexts: findings from a cross-national European study .
26-35.
Rolando, S., Asmussen Frank, V., Duke, K., Kahlert, R., Pisarska, A., Graf, N.
and Beccaria, F.
'I like money, I like many things'.
The relationship between drugs and crime from the perspective of young people in contact with criminal justice systems .
7-16.
Moskalewicz, J., Dabrowska, K., Herold, M.
D., Beccaria, F., Rolando, S., Herring, R., Thom, B., Kahlert, R., Stummvoll, G., Moazen, B., Stöver, H.
and Pisarska, A.
Unintended consequences of drug policies experienced by young drug users in contact with the criminal justice systems.
Drugs: Education, Prevention, and Policy , 28 (1) .
36-47.
ISSN 0968-7637 (doi:10.1080/09687637.2020.1823944).
and Kolind, T.
(2020).
Framing and reframing drug ‘problems’ in prison spaces and populations.
in: MacGregor, S.
(ed.) Risk and substance use: framing dangerous people and dangerous places Routledge, Taylor & Francis.
162-182
Moazen, B., Dolan, K., Moghaddam, S., Lotfizadeh, M., Duke, K., Neuhann, F., Stöver, H.
and Jahn, A.
Availability, accessibility, and coverage of needle and syringe programs in prisons in the European Union .
Epidemiologic Reviews.
42 (1), pp.
19-26.
Hafford-Letchfield T., McQuarrie T., Clancy C., Thom B.
and Jain B.
Community Based Interventions for Problematic Substance Use in Later Life: A Systematic Review of Evaluated Studies and Their Outcomes .
International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health 17, 7994; doi:10.3390/ijerph17217994
Somerfield L., Thom B.
and Herring R.
Public Health participation in alcohol licensing decisions in England: the importance of navigating ‘contested space’.
Drugs and Alcohol Today Vol 20 (4): 323-335.
Asmussen-Frank V., Thom B., Herold M.
“Some of us need to be taken care of”: Young adults’ perspectives on support and help in drug reducing interventions in coercive contexts .
Drugs: education, prevention and policy.
DARC staff teach on a range of master's programmes.
Betsy Thom and David Garcia: Leading ISSUP UK: UK chapter of ISSUP (International Society for Substance Use Professionals) 2021 – ongoing.
Karen Duke : Co-opted Member of the Standing Committee on Prevention, Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs (ACMD), May 2023-ongoing
Betsy Thom: Member, expert panel ‘A whole systems approach to substance use harm prevention amongst children and young people’ Public Health Scotland, 2022- ongoing
Helen Gleeson, Karen Duke, Betsy Thom: submitted written evidence to the Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs on ethnic minority groups and drug use Sept.
Karen Duke, Tim Weaver, Carmel Clancy and Rachel Herring: Presentations, study visit from UNODC (United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime) Central Asia group to Drug and Alcohol Research Centre, Middlesex University, 27 April 2023
Betsy Thom: Mentoring research team (Drug use in Syrian Universities) for Cara Syria, 2022-2023
Karen Duke: Invited member of the Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs (ACMD) Working Group on Prevention (Vulnerable Groups) - February-May 2022
Karen Duke and Betsy Thom: Written evidence to the House of Commons Committee for Public Accounts, Support for Vulnerable Adolescents , 2022
Karen Duke: Consultant Advisor to the Lung Theatre Company for the BBC Radio 4 documentary on the drug, Spice , 1 October 2022
Betsy Thom: Member of steering group Drug Research Network Scotland, and Drug Prevention theme leader, 2018-2021
Betsy Thom: Member of Steering Committee UNICRI (United Nations Interregional Crime and Justice Research Institute) project: “ What are the needs of families in preventing drug use among children and adolescents?
” 2019-2020
Guardian, ‘ Urgent action needed to curb rise in prison deaths linked to spice, say UK researchers ’, 31 January 2023
Inside Time newspaper, ‘ Spice linked to 62 prison deaths ’, 16 January 2023
Russell Webster Blog, ‘ New Psychoactive Substance and Prison Drug Death s’, 9 January 2023,
https://www.russellwebster.com/the-increasing-role-of-new-psychoactive-substances-in-prison-drug-deaths/
Justice Gap, ‘ New Data Shows Rise in Prison Deaths Linked with Spice ', 2 February 2023
Drug Science Podcast, ' Prisons and Drugs ', Karen Duke with Professor David Nutt and Professor Susanne MacGregor, June 2024
(2024) Policy and practice responses to drug-related deaths: governance in English and Welsh Prisons, 2015-2021 .
Lisbon Addictions Conference, 23-25 October 2024
(2023) Unpacking the risk matrix:  drug related deaths in English and Welsh prisons , European Society of Criminology Conference, Florence, 6-9 September, 2023
(2022) Drug-related deaths in prisons in England and Wales , 2015-2020, Lisbon Addictions Conference, 23-25 November 2022
(2021) Building cultures of participation: the involvement of young people in contact with the criminal justice system in the development of drug interventions in the UK, Denmark, Italy and Poland , European Society for Social Drugs Research, Vienna (online).

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-groups/european-human-rights-advocacy-centre-ehrac:
The European Human Rights Advocacy Centre (EHRAC) is an independent human rights litigation centre based in the School of Law at Middlesex University.
EHRAC supports and collaborates with human rights defenders in Ukraine and the South Caucasus to litigate ground-breaking strategic cases to secure justice and challenge impunity.
Together, EHRAC and its partners identify systemic abuses and respond to urgent threats to civil society and marginalised communities.
EHRAC was founded in 2003 and to date the Centre has:
EHRAC’s current work focuses on three intersecting areas: Civic Space and Democratic Accountability; Conflict and Security Force Abuses; Discrimination.
Please visit our website for more information.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-groups/flood-hazard-research-centre-fhrc:
The Flood Hazard Research Centre (FHRC) has focused on water, environmental management and natural hazards since the early 1970s, making us one of world's oldest centres in this field.
Today, our research has never been more relevant, as many communities in the UK – and globally - are struggling to cope with record flood levels, and the vast damage and disruption that follows.
Against this growing concern, our aim at the FHRC is to develop our understanding of the relations between people, water and the environment.
Our studies are targeted towards helping government bodies and communities to reduce the risks from natural hazards and improve policies for current and future generations.
We work to promote sustainable water and coastal zone management, policy and practice based upon good governance.
The FHRC is an interdisciplinary research centre, based in the Faculty of Science and Technology at Middlesex University.
Our experienced academics and skilled research students specialise in the interaction between people and the environment, as well as the analysis and appraisal of environmental policies.
In particular, we are interested in the environmental and societal dimensions of natural hazards such as:
The centre staff work across a range of disciplines including geography, economics, sociology, social anthropology, and environmental science.
We have a PhD and Masters level training programme and run professional training courses for Environment Agency, local authority and consultancy staff.
Between us, we have many years experience of working with government bodies in the UK and overseas.
You can find out more about what we do here by reading our portfolio of past and current research projects.
We welcome collaboration with any interested research bodies and individuals.
The Flood Hazard Research Centre has recently been featured in our Research Impact Case Studies.
Please note that we are an academic research body, not a public service.
If you have been flooded or are at risk from flooding you may find the following organisations and web links useful:
Postal address:
Flood Hazard Research Centre Middlesex University The Burroughs Hendon London NW4 4BT
General enquiries:
Tel: 020 8411 5529 Fax: 020 8361 1644 Email: J.Joyce@mdx.ac.uk Skype ID: Floodh
We provide Continuing Professional Development (CPD) training, drawing on the expertise of our staff and external consultants.
You can learn skills in: flood warnings, flood risk management, asset condition assessment, flood alleviation and coast protection.
If you are interested in bespoke in-house training, whether it is for a group of new or existing employees, please contact us to discuss how this can be tailored to your exact requirements.
We can also provide courses outside the UK.
For our next scheduled course 'Introduction to Flood Benefits Appraisal Course' please contact j.joyce@mdx.ac.uk for further details on this course and future courses.
For the next 'The Flood Management Benefits: A Better Appraisal in Less Time Course', please express your interest so that a date can be confirmed.
For more information please contact j.joyce@mdx.ac.uk .
For more than four decades, the Flood Hazard Research Centre has written publications that have shaped the way we look at natural hazards, and in particular flood risk and water management.
Our publications by respected academics include edited and authored books, peer-reviewed academic journal articles, reports for government departments (both in the UK and overseas), consultancy reports, conference proceedings, departmental working papers and monographs.
A selection of our most recent publications are given below.
For further information on these and earlier publications, please contact Josie Joyce.
The latest Multi-Coloured Manual has been produced by the FHRC at Middlesex University, in collaboration with the Environment Agency and Defra.
The 2013 Manual replaces the 2005 publication.
It provides theoretical underpinning of the data and detailed methodology for use in the practical assessment of schemes and policies.
Additionally, it explains the limitations and complications of Benefit-Cost Analysis to inform decision-making on investment in river and coastal risk management.
The manual is available to order from Hive .
The annually updated Handbook (and Data) is a companion volume to the 2013 Manual.
It is a step-by-step guide that allows the user to carry out economic appraisals for the majority of flood and coastal erosion risk management schemes.
The Handbook and Data are available to download under licence from a secure section of the MCM-Online .
You may also be interested in our MCM courses, delivered by the authors of the Manual and Handbook.
Please visit our Courses page for more information.
In the last four decades, FHRC has produced four Manuals bringing together information on the impacts of flooding and coastal erosion.
In 1977 , the Blue Manual was the first document to provide guidance on appraising flood hazards in the UK, involving both damage to urban properties and the benefits of protecting agricultural land.
This was followed by the Red Manual in 1987 , which investigated in greater detail the indirect or secondary effects of floods, as well as updating material on industrial, commercial and retail flood damages.
In 1992 we produced the Yellow Manual , which focused on coastal erosion and flooding problems, and systematised the assessment of the 'intangible' impacts of coastal erosion on beach recreation and other use values of the coast previously left as unquantifiable.
During 2001 and 2004 we updated this work and in 2005 we produced, the Multi-Coloured Manual , the Multi-Coloured Handbook and the Multi-Coloured CD .
In turn, the Environment Agency commissioned FHRC in 2009 and 2010 to update all this data, based on new research and the floods that occurred in 2007.
In 2010 we produced the Multi-Coloured Handbook - 2010 and the Multi-Coloured CD - 2010.
In 2011, a substantial revision of the 2005 MCM commenced in order to reflect new research and address the needs presented by new partnership funding arrangements for flood risk management.
This resulted in the Multi-Coloured Manual 2013 .
The accompanying Handbook and Data is available from the MCM-Online.
Overview of flooding and coastal erosion manuals/handbooks produced by FHRC:
Blue Manual 1977 Red Manual 1987 Yellow Manual 1992 Multi-Coloured Manual 2005 Multi-Coloured Handbook 2005 Multi-Coloured Handbook and CD 2010 Multi-Coloured Manual 2013 MCM-Online – Handbook and Data available to download from a secure section of the website 2013 - present
Pender, Gareth / Faulkner, Hazel (eds.) Flood Risk Science and Management
Edition - November 2010 ca.
162.- Euro 2010.
528 Pages, Hardcover ISBN-10: 1-4051-8657-7 ISBN-13: 978-1-4051-8657-5 - John Wiley & Sons
Detailed description
Approaches to avoid loss of life and limit disruption and damage from flooding have changed significantly in recent years.
Worldwide, there has been a move from a strategy of flood defence to one of flood risk management.
Flood risk management includes flood prevention using hard defences, where appropriate, but also requires that society learns to live with floods and that stakeholders living in flood prone areas develop coping strategies to increase their resilience to flood impacts when these occur.
This change in approach represents a paradigm shift that stems from the realisation that continuing to strengthen and extend conventional flood defences is unsustainable economically, environmentally, and in terms of social equity.
Flood risk management recognises that a sustainable approach must rest on integrated measures that reduce not only the probability of flooding, but also the consequences.
This is essential as increases in the probability of inundation are inevitable in many areas of the world due to climate change, while socio-economic development will lead to spiralling increases in the consequences of flooding unless land use in floodplains is carefully planned.
Flood Risk Science and Management provides an extensive and comprehensive synthesis of current research in flood management; providing a multi-disciplinary reference text covering a wide range of flood management topics.
Its targeted readership is the international research community (from research students through to senior staff) and flood management professionals, such as engineers, planners, government officials and those with flood management responsibility in the public sector.
By using the concept of case study chapters, international coverage is given to the topic, ensuring a worldwide relevance.
You can now order your copy of Flood Risk Science and Management from the Wiley-VCH website.
The project will help half a million poor and vulnerable people in six districts of far west rural Nepal build their resilience to climate change impacts like floods, landslides and drought.
In practice this means supporting smallholder farmers to earn an extra £140 per year by taking advantage of small farm economic opportunities and investments in climate-smart technologies such as drip irrigation, essential oil production, multiple-use water systems and community-based renewable energy.
To ensure sustainability it will also build the capacity of local communities and local institutions to manage floods, drought and new crop diseases and become stronger and more self-reliant.
The project is led by iDE.
FHRC's component of the project involves research on the process of integrating local adaptation plans of action (LAPA) and disaster risk reduction (DRR) through case studies and institutional assessments at the level of local government units, to be consolidated into policy recommendations.
Funder: UK DFID (UKaid)
Duration: February 2015 – December 2017
FHRC Project Manager: Dr Parvin Sultana
The project aims to generate evidence-based knowledge on the gaps between community management of natural resources, local adaptation innovations and national policy debates over climate change and conflicts related to natural resource access in Nepal and Bangladesh.
The research is led by FHRC working with partners Forest Action, iDE and Nice Foundation.
Participatory action research is underway in 70 sites with local community based organisations, mainly in Bangladesh floodplains, and in community forests and hill areas of Nepal.
Findings are linked with an adaptive learning process among and with larger networks of community organisations in both countries, and the project engages with policy and practitioner stakeholders through district and national level "policy learning forums".
This is expected to result in lessons on methods to help poor natural resource users overcome conflicts that may be worsened by climate change and enhanced capacity among community organisations.
Ultimately the results are expected to reveal the constraints and enabling conditions for community initiatives that improve resilience and minimise adverse impacts of conflicts on the rights of the poor.
Funder: NWO (Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research)
Duration : January 2014 – December 2017
The project is designed to improve understanding of the complex environmental challenges facing communities in the coastal zone of Bangladesh, and how those communities can adapt.
There is presently a gap between the training and professional skills of students and academics.
Through academic linkages at faculty and graduate student levels, including dissertation research in the Bangladesh coastal zone, and research capacity building, particularly by involving and supporting a coordinated set of Master's level student research.
The project aims to research climate change impacts and adaptations for livelihoods, environment and fisheries in the coastal zone, and mainstream climate change into existing courses and teaching.
The partners will feed research findings into teaching at Middlesex University, Bangladesh Agricultural University and Independent University Bangladesh.
The Flood Hazard Research Centre at Middlesex University will provide expertise to strengthen the research capacity and methods of the Bangladesh partners, in particular applied action research merging social and environmental disciplines to work with affected communities, and support mainstreaming these issues into teaching.
Funder:
Funded under INSPIRE programme of British Council , partners: Bangladesh Agricultural University and Independent University Bangladesh
Duration:
2010 – 2013
FHRC Project Manager:
Dr Paul Thompson
CapHaz-Net focussed on the social dimensions of natural hazards as well as on regional practices of risk prevention and management.
The project aimed to improve the resilience of European societies to natural hazards and suggests ways of how to achieve this, paying particular attention to social capacities and how they are influenced by contextual conditions.
The project was the first primarily social-science project on natural hazards funded by the European Commission and hopes to develop a growing network of individuals, academics, stakeholders and practitioners who share a common interest in the social dimensions of natural hazards.
FHRC contributed to most project work packages but was work package leader for WP4 on Social Vulnerability.
European Commission Seventh Framework Programme
2009 – 2012
Sue Tapsell
The challenge of effectively managing our local environments and living safely in them is enhanced not only with a good appreciation of that environment but also engagement with and between relevant stakeholders.
The environment is dynamic and developing but so are our technological abilities to both monitor and communicate about that environment.
The WeSenseIt project aims to develop local 'citizen observatories' to strengthen water governance.
By bringing together innovative low cost sensor systems, social networks via social media and mobile devices and relevant professional and public stakeholders it will test if such an observatory is viable and if it encourages engagement with the water environment and leads to more informed decision making.
This is a European project with river and surface water flooding and quality issues addressed in three case study locations: a UK case in partnership with Doncaster Metropolitan Council, a Netherlands case with UNESCO-IHE Institute for Water Education and an Italian case with the Alto Adriatico Water Authority.
The developed platforms will coordinate with the major European and global information sharing initiatives and be complementary to the actions conducted in the Global Monitoring for Environment and Security initiative, with tools made available within the Global Earth Observation System or Systems framework.
Working with a number of European technology SME's the sensor systems and delivery networks will be developed.
In partnership with the Institute for Water Education, the Flood Hazard Research Centre are responsible for developing, understanding and maintaining stakeholder involvement, the 'human' sensors, and monitoring any changes in governance relationships during the four year project.
We will also explore the application of Agent Based Modelling in representing the citizen observatory.
2012 - 2016
Dr Simon McCarthy
To support local authorities and other risk management authorities, the Construction Industry Research and Information Association (CIRIA) , the Environment Agency and a wide range of partners want to share, augment and develop good practice on communicating local flood risk in the form of surface runoff, groundwater and ordinary watercourses flooding effectively to the public.
In partnership with Arup , FHRC is collating research, evidence, case studies and practical experience to develop easy to use good practice advice for all flood risk management authorities (local authorities, regulators, water and sewerage companies etc) involved in communicating with and engaging the public on local flood risk management.
The guidance will be available from the CIRIA website early in 2013.
Funders:
Environment Agency
Office of Public Works
JBA Trust
United Utilities
Yorkshire Water
Thames Water
2012 - 2013
FHRC are leading this research project.
The purpose of the project is to support enhanced coping with risk by the poor in Bangladesh floodplains by assessing current practices and coping by a range of community organisations and conducting action research on good practices with a network of community based organisations.
FHRC will undertake research in Bangladesh with a network of 250 existing Community Based Organisations (CBOs) managing floodplain natural resources and with other local community institutions for collective action.
This will develop an improved understanding of their present coping strategies and attitudes to risk.
Good practices and innovations identified with the CBOs will be piloted by CBOs to improve risk coping mechanisms and ultimately the livelihoods of poor fishers and farmers.
Lessons will be drawn and disseminated to practitioners and policy makers who have scope to scale up the findings to potentially benefit a large part of the rural poor population facing natural and climatic hazards.
Our partners are a Bangladesh NGO – Nice Foundation, and the Society for Water Resources Management – a federation of 250 existing floodplain CBOs formed through our earlier projects in Bangladesh.
Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation
Dr Parvin Sultana
Cost assessments of damages, prevention and responses to natural hazards supply crucial information to decision support and policy development in the fields of natural hazard management and climate change adaptation planning.
Significant diversity in methodological approaches taken and terminology used in costs assessments of different natural hazards and impacted sectors makes it difficult to establish comprehensive, robust and reliable costs figures, and to compare costs across hazards and impacted sectors.
ConHaz has provided more insight into cost assessment methods, which is needed for integrated planning, budgeting and policy action prioritisation for the various natural hazards.
This comprehensive approach has enabled ConHaz to clearly identify overlaps, commonalities and knowledge gaps in cost assessments of natural hazards.
FHRC's research focused on reviewing flood losses assessment methods and end-user needs.
For more information please refer to the CONHAZ report:
Green C., Viavattene C., Thompson P., 2011.
Guidance for assessing flood losses- CONHAZ Report
FHRC has also contributed to the CONHAZ synthesis document:
Meyer V.
et al., 2012.
Cost of Natural Hazards – a Synthesis – CONHAZ report
2010 – 2012
Dr Christophe Viavattene
The EcosHaz project aims to establish a sustainable knowledge framework addressing the costs and benefits of prevention and response to coastal hazards such as flooding, shoreline erosion, storm surges, sea level rise and oil spill accidents.
Until now, investment decisions in Europe in this field have been made more on local or regional 'pork barrel' political imperatives than on logical risk assessments.
The EcosHaz project intends to overcome some these limitations and weaknesses by:
This presentation by Prof Edmund Penning-Rowsell, filmed at the University Pablo de Olavide, Seville, details FHRC's involvement in EcosHaz.
Partners within the consortium are Sigma Consultants, Greece; the University Pablo de Olavide, Seville, Spain; the Flood Hazard Research Centre, Middlesex University, UK ; the Maritime Institute in Gdansk, Poland;  the Department of Economic Theory at University of Santiago de Compostela, Spain, and the Università degli Studi di Catania, Italy.
More information, including on the European partners in this project, is available at the EcosHaz website.
EU Humanitarian Aid and Civil Protection and co-funded by The European Union
2015 – 2016
Professor Edmund Penning-Rowsell
Vulnerability has long been a key concept in disaster literature.
However, the majority of studies have focused on research related to the hazard, therefore neglecting the influence of the vulnerability of exposed systems to the consequences of such hazards, such as the death toll and losses from natural or man-made disasters.
There is also a need to better identify and measure the ability of 'at risk' and affected communities and territorial systems to respond to such disasters.
This was the starting point of the ENSURE project.
The basic assumption of ENSURE was that our ability to better understand and evaluate different types of vulnerabilities constitutes a crucial tool to strengthen communities in the face of disasters due to extreme events and climate change.
Improving the understanding of the factors that make a community more vulnerable is crucial.
This involved addressing the various physical, psychological, cultural, systemic, social and economic components that shape the relationship between societies and the "natural" environment to permit more tailored and articulated mitigation measures.
The project involved 10 partner institutions from France, Germany, Greece, Israel, Italy, The Netherlands, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom.
ENSURE has contributed to an improved analysis of vulnerability for improving the resilience of communities.
The overall objective of the project was to develop a new methodological framework for Integrated Multi-Scale Vulnerability Assessment.
The framework is based on a comprehensive, integrated and inter-disciplinary understanding of how mitigation strategies can be improved in the future; it will hopefully contribute to the reduction of human losses, economic damage and social disruption due to extreme events striking communities exposed to a variety of natural hazards, as well as to the potential consequences of Climate Change.
Provide support for policy decisions with key stakeholders, at various scales, relating to prevention measures and plans in order to minimise damage from natural disasters; 2.
Present, through the Integrated Multi-Scale Vulnerability Assessment, a feasible tool to improve communication with local communities in the process of raising risk awareness, on technological expertise, and for a better understanding of social and cultural factors to help increase public involvement; 3.
Understand adaptation and resilience factors, and system responses, which help to minimize risks from natural and human-triggered technological disasters; included within this is the ability to assess the vulnerability of strategic facilities and infrastructures; 4.
Improve our understanding of environmental vulnerability to some natural disasters, and particularly to some of the secondary consequences e.g.
due to the interaction between vulnerable assets, wrong risk management practices and the "natural environment".
2008 – 2011
Economic policy instruments (EPI) have received widespread attention over the last three decades, and have increasingly been implemented to achieve environmental policy objectives.
However, whereas EPI have been successfully applied in some policy domains (such as climate, energy and air quality), their application to tackle water management issues (drought/water scarcity, floods, water quality control) are beset by many practical difficulties.
EPI-Water sets to assess the effectiveness and the efficiency of Economic Policy Instruments in achieving water policy goals, and to identify the preconditions under which they complement or perform better than alternative (e.g.
regulatory or voluntary) policy instruments.
Using a common multi-dimensional assessment framework, the project will compare the performance of single economic instruments or their apposite combinations with the performance otherwise achievable with regulatory (command & control) interventions (such as water restriction/rationing, licensing or permitting), persuasive instruments or voluntary commitments.
Furthermore the project will identify remaining research and methodological issues that need to be addressed, in particular with regards to the further development and use of national accounting, for supporting the design, implementation and evaluation of EPI in the field of water management.
2011 - 2013
The Centre has completed an innovatory benefit assessment for Exeter City Council Engineer's Department for the proposed new Exeter flood alleviation scheme.
Benefit assessments are usually undertaken using the principles of national economic efficiency benefit-cost appraisals as required by The Treasury in their Green Book.
However, since local partnership funding of flood risk management projects has emerged there is also considerable interest in local (in addition to national) economic and social benefits which assess the financial impact of floods and the benefits to local and regional economies of protecting against them.
Such an assessment allows potential local beneficiaries to obtain a better understanding of the likely impacts of floods on them and their business linkages.
The project involved major adjustments to the Centre's flood damage data sets which are routinely used by the flood risk management industry, and the establishment of a new methodology for local/regional economic and social benefit appraisal.
The results of the project revealed that local economic and social benefits are likely to be substantially higher than national economic ones – something which was already expected but for which data allowing detailed estimates to be made had not previously existed.
The Centre is interested in hearing from other local authorities that might be interested in the advantages of applying these new data and methods.
Exeter City Council
2012 – 2013
Professor Dennis Parker
The Flood CBA project aims to establish a sustainable Knowledge Platform for the use of stakeholders dealing with the cost-benefit analysis of flood prevention measures in the context of different  socio-economic environments within the EU.
The project entails the implementation of the following elements:
a) Project Management actions
b) Networking actions
c) Analysis of stakeholders' requirements and gathering of background information
d) Consultation actions and development of supporting and knowledge exchange tools
e) Demonstration actions
f) Capacity building actions
g) Dissemination actions
h) Exploitation and capitalisation actions
Civil Protection Financial Instrument of the DG-Humanitarian Aid and Civil Protection and co-funded by the European Union
2013-2014
This project is, in effect, a knowledge exchange project, designed to introduce some member states to a more rigorous assessment of flood protection and flood risk management schemes, with an emphasis on both economic efficiency and the maximisation of public safety.
The countries involved are the UK, Greece, Portugal and Spain, and the method of working is to select case studies in each country and analyse the costs and benefits of flood risk management measures there, as a vehicle for training programmes for stakeholders and users of project appraisal techniques and methods.
In the UK we are using Oxford as the case study, illustrating the potential for implementing a major bypass channel to reduce flood risk in the city, but also the problems of doing so in terms of benefits and costs, stakeholder agreements and funding opportunities.
This project is the second phase of the successful Flood CBA project.
Funder : DG-ECGO (European Commission Humanitarian Aid & Civil Protection)
Duration: January 2016 - December 2017
FHRC Project Manager: Professor Edmund Penning-Rowsell
The Organisation for Economic Co-Operation and Development (OECD) actively works with national governments to highlight the role of urban governance and policy to deliver cost-effective responses to climate change.
FHRC contributed to a report that extends on previous work published by the OECD (Nicholls et al.
2008), and demonstrates how damages would be expected to change under different plausible scenarios.
The report quantifies the benefits of global climate change mitigation and local adaption to reduce this growth in risks, and hence the implications of different portfolios of action versus no action.
In particular, the study quantifies the additional adaptation efforts that will be required to manage this problem.
Organisation for Economic Co-Operation and Development (OECD)
2010 – 2011
Professor Colin Green
This project provided a robust, national assessment of the distribution of costs and benefits of Flood Risk Management (FRM).
The benefits of this work will:
The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) via Halcrow
Professor Edmund Penning Rowsell
Despite long-lasting attempts to reduce vulnerabilities to natural hazards, the damages resulting from flooding are still increasing in Europe.
In many respects, floods are beyond the immediate control of human beings and despite an enhanced ability to predict the occurrence of floods, an increased resilience of communities at risk seems vital for reducing suffering and damages.
It is the main objective of RISKMAP within a flood risk mapping process and the use of flood risk maps to raise flood awareness.
Staff at FHRC led work in two main areas: Participation and a Lower Thames Case Study.
The main objective of the work task on participation (WT2.1) was to consider the creation of risk maps within a dialogue process and create a participatory framework that allows for the constructive and open engagement, and integration, of selected stakeholders (experts, decision-makers and well as representatives of the local population), their views, information requirements and local expertise within the risk mapping process.
The task hence followed the principles of good governance bringing together various categories of concerned players and stakeholders generating a co-expertise process.
The project adopted a framework developed by Stirling (2004) which advocates the value of participation and classifies the types of participation by its outcomes.
The project in particular investigated an instrumental rationale to engagement which describes how participation in practice can be used to build trust, acceptance and understanding between stakeholders and decision-makers, and a substantive rationale whereby broader and deeper knowledge should be taken into account during decision making processes in order to result in better quality decisions.
The project paid particular attention to the diagnosis of potential deficiencies and opportunities in participation and stakeholder involvement with regard to risk mapping and directly contributed to the development of best practice guidance and recommendations.
Case studies were included in the project in order to test and build upon some of the theoretical work being developed.
The Lower Thames Case Study (WT4.2) investigated the issues involved in managing flood risk in a large semi-urbanised area in the lower part of the River Thames catchment, London.
This case study, centered on Chertsey, Surrey, and focused on the role of the public within the process of flood risk mapping.
It investigated flood maps as communication tools for flooding issues to: engage the 'at-risk public about flood risk, gather local knowledge about flooding and to raise awareness.
FHRC also contributed to a number of other work packages including; the legal framework of mapping and participation, current practices in flood risk mapping, mapping visualisation and provided public test persons for the experimental graphic semiology task.
Key project partners:
Helmholtz Centre for Environmental Research (UFZ, Germany) [project co-ordinators]; University of Natural Resources and Applied Life Sciences (BOKU, Austria); University of Applied Sciences Deggendorf (FHD, Germany) and Université François-Rabelais, Ecole Polytechnique, Département Aménagement,(UMR CITERES, France).
2nd ERA-Net CRUE Research Funding Initiative by:
Austria - Minitsterium für ein Lebenswertes Österreich England - Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) France - Ministère de L´Environnement, de L'Énergie et de la Mer Germany - Federal Ministry for Education & Research (BMBF)
Dr Sally Priest
FLOODsite was a large EC research project undertaking research of over €14M in value through 37 partner organisations and over 250 individual researchers.
The project aimed to deliver an integrated European methodology for flood risk analysis and management for rivers, estuaries and the coast; a consistent approach to flood risk management process and practice, techniques and knowledge to support integrated flood risk management, and frameworks for decision support for long-term and flood event risk management.
In November 2007, the Parliament and Council of the European Union published a new European Directive on the assessment and management of flood risks.
FLOODsite was listed as one of the European actions that supported the Directive.
The Flood Hazard Research Centre contributed to five key tasks within the research project:
Task 10 - Socio-economic evaluation and modelling methodologies;
Task 11 – Risk perception, community behaviour and social resilience;
Task 13 - Strategies for pre-flood risk management;
Task 29 – Text-based knowledge transfer.
European Commission 6th Framework Programme
2004-2009
The Flood Hazard Research Centre with CH2M and the National Flood Forum are undertaking a one year project to investigate the flood impact and historical/geographical context information.
The aim is to identify and harness that information that is most valuable to enable the public and professional stakeholders to make effective decisions to undertake effective action before and during a flood.
Based on the needs identified, the project will determine how best to express those impacts throughout current and future professional services.
The project is commissioned through the Environment Agency and Natural Resources Wales (NRW) as part of the Joint Environment Agency, Defra, NRW and Welsh Government FCRM Research and Development Programme.
Impact
The project aims to produce new communication approaches which facilitate enhanced decision making and actions among both the at-risk public and relevant professional organisations in England and Wales to reduce the consequences of fluvial flooding.
If you have any questions about this project, please get in touch with Dr Simon McCarthy s.mccarthy@mdx.ac.uk
No project link yet
Community management of forests and floodplains has spread rapidly as a means of empowering the poor, maintaining natural resources and delivering equitable benefits.
However, evidence for positive interactions between poverty reduction and restored or sustained ecosystems is limited.
This study will assess changes in the distribution of benefits and ecosystem services generated from wetlands in Bangladesh and forests in Nepal.
It will focus on collating dispersed evidence to examine the intertwined effects of community management on a) livelihoods of poor people dependent on these systems, and b) key indicators of ecosystems sustainability.
Published and grey literature will be systematically reviewed, and a comparative analysis made of data sets held by the partner organisations/researchers generated over 15 years.
Data will be disaggregated within the two ecosystems, and comparative analysis will be made according to key factors including resource tenure, membership or representational community based organisations (CBOs), and the role of networking and learning (horizontal and vertical) among CBOs.
Nationally accepted indicators of poverty will be used to segregate the effects on livelihoods.
The research will draw lessons on institutional arrangements that can be taken up more widely to enable ecosystems to deliver services to the poor in a sustainable way.
The institutional aspects of particular significance are networks or federations of local citizen groups that are increasingly developing to improve coordination, learning and interaction with government.
In both countries there are vibrant networks among community organisations and initiatives (in Nepal focused on forests and in Bangladesh focused on floodplains and water bodies, in each case facilitated by the respective project partner).
These networks emphasise the importance of common pool resources and collective action for the rural livelihoods of poor people and the ecosystems they depend on, and the scope for networking to enhance resource management, lesson learning, and influence on policy.
This research aims to synthesise dispersed evidence, bridge gaps and build on these opportunities.
It will address the gap in scientific knowledge on the pro-poor impacts of innovations and adaptations in natural resource management in two of the most important ecosystems in Asia that are moreover vulnerable to climate change.
The case studies will involve those innovators and affected people, and will nationally enhance links of community networks with researchers and with those who set the policy and institutional framework.
This research project builds on our research since 2006 in Bangladesh and establishes a new link with Forest Action Nepal which will undertake case studies in Nepal.
Ecosystem Services for Poverty Alleviation (a programme supported by NERC, ESRC and DFID)
Parvin Sultana
In Bangladesh many Community Based Organizations (CBOs) have been formed and left to continue managing wetlands when projects ended.
This project brought 150 existing CBOs involved in managing floodplain natural resources together into a learning network.
The CBOs identified lessons and good practices and spread their adoption.
They identified gaps and opportunities, and coordinated innovation to address common problems.
The adaptive learning process evolved through workshops among CBO leaders at a regional level and two-way communication between leaders and members of their CBOs.
By bringing together CBOs that had before concentrated on either fishery management or water management for rice, and reviewing together constraints and opportunities, proven practices spread and new options were tested.
Over three years 56% of participating CBOs acted to improve fisheries management, and 72% now have fish sanctuaries.
Taking a system-based view of natural resource management encouraged a quarter of the CBOs to test dry season crops that need only about 20% of the water used by the dominant irrigated rice.
The research indicates that an adaptive learning network results in: more rapid and systematic learning than individual trial and error, encourages innovation, enhances access to advice, and strength in numbers improves ability to face threats such as external pressure to access common water resources.
The project was coordinated by the Bangladesh Environmental Lawyers Association (BELA), with involvement of a nongovernmental organization, Banchte Shekha.
The Flood Hazard Research Centre provided technical support and led the research activities.
International Development Research Centre (IDRC)
2007 – 2010
In coastal plains and river deltas flood risk management (FRM) requires constant adaptation to changing circumstances.
The Netherlands has a tradition in such adaptation, as it has coped with rising sea levels and subsiding soils for many centuries already.
Accelerated climate change now urges the Netherlands to reconsider its long-term policy for flood risk management.
This requires the assessment of which strategic alternatives are to be preferred, not only from a risk reduction point of view, but broader from the point of view of social equity, economic efficiency and ecological integrity.
Knowledge for Climate is a research programme for the development of knowledge and services that  hopes to make it possible to 'climate proof' the Netherlands.
Governmental organisations (central government, provinces, municipalities and water boards) and businesses actively participate in the research programme.
FHRC will be involved in the insurance aspects of the project.
The Ministry of Housing, Spatial Planning and the Environment (VROM)
2010 - 2014
The Flood Hazard Research Centre is a principle contributor in LAND4FLOOD Cost action.
This EU action is a four year networking programme that aims to establish a common knowledge base and channels of communication among scientists, regulators, land owners and other stakeholders in flood risk management addressing the theme.
The theme focuses on Natural Flood Retention on private land including economic issues (e.g.
how to compensate for or incentivize flood retention services); property rights issues (e.g.
how to allow temporary flood storage on private land); issues of public participation (e.g.
how to ensure the involvement of private landowners) as well as issues of public subsidies (e.g.
how to integrate/mainstream flood retention in agricultural subsidies).
Knowledge transfer via the establishment of a strong network focused on the theme facilitating further research and policy development actions.
This research builds on previous phases of consultation (Lower Thames Strategy Study Phases 1 to 4) and liaison with the residents and all Local Planning Authorities throughout the Lower Thames area (Windsor to Teddington Lock).
The project involves working with the key project partners Halcrow Ltd, Jacobs Engineering U.K.
Ltd and together with the Environment Agency Flood Risk Management (FRM) teams.
The aim of the project is to agree through pilots appropriate levels of FRM support in the form of Flood Plain Management (FPM) tool development, FRM approaches and partner responsibilities.
The project objectives is to recommend options for public incentivisation and awareness programmes through social surveys, consultations and 'building trust' activities to achieve buy-in for the Community Based Measures Programme (community structural, temporary and non-structural approaches).
It also aims to develop a selected range of hydraulic models to support further refinement of FPM tool and provide guidance for its future operationalisation within relevant Local Authorities.
Halcrow Ltd
In the last four decades, FHRC has produced five Manuals bringing together information on the impacts of flooding and coastal erosion.
In 1977, the "Blue Manual" was the first document to provide guidance on appraising flood hazards in the UK, involving both damage to urban properties and the benefits of protecting agricultural land.
This was followed by the "Red Manual" in 1987, which investigated in greater detail the indirect or secondary effects of floods, as well as updating material on industrial, commercial and retail flood damages.
In 1992 we produced the "Yellow Manual" which focused on coastal erosion and flooding problems, and systematised the assessment of the "intangible" impacts of coastal erosion on beach recreation and other use values of the coast previously left as unquantifiable.
During 2001/04 we were tasked by DEFRA (the Department of  Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, formerly MAFF) to update all this work and produced in 2005 the "Multi-Coloured Manual (MCM)", the "Multi-Coloured Handbook" and the "Multicoloured CD".
This involved a major review of the use of the previous manuals, through surveys investigating strengths and weaknesses perceived by users in the consulting, engineering and flood defence community, and also a major update of damage data in the retail, commercial, industrial and residential sectors.
In turn the Environment Agency commissioned FHRC in 2009/10 to update all this data, based on new research and the floods that occurred in 2007.
In 2010 we produced the "Multi-Coloured Handbook - 2010" and the "Multicoloured CD - 2010".
MCM Update - 2013
In late 2011, a substantial revision of the 2005 MCM commenced in order to reflect new research and address the needs presented by new partnership funding arrangements for flood risk management.
This involved adding new data on flood impacts such as evacuation costs and vehicle damage.
We also analysed the data used to calculate flood impacts on commercial properties, to determine where uncertainties lie and what improvements can be made.
This new 2013 "Multi-Coloured Manual" is now available from Hive .
The accompanying "Handbook and Data" is also available to download electronically from the new website: MCM-Online .
Environment Agency / Defra
2011 – 2014
The Flood Hazard Research Centre is undertaking a three year Erasmus+ Capacity building in Higher Education project.
The overall aim of the project Development of master curricula for natural disasters risk management in Western Balkan countries is to build experts for prevention and management of natural disasters in the region of Western Balkan (WB) according to the local national and EU policies.
In addition to building knowledge and skills the project will see the development of modernised laboratories with the latest hardware and software equipment for simulations and assessments of natural disasters, where students will gain practical knowledge that can be immediately applied, and the up-to-date library units will contribute to innovative new master study programmes.
The project also involves staff and student mobility funding between the partner organisations and countries to gain training and experience.
http://www.natrisk.ni.ac.rs/
Build educational capacity in disaster risk management within Serbia, Kosovo, Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Invitation for Staff Mobility’s
Five day funded staff mobility’s are available to MU staff for November 2018 to July 2019:
2 staff attending University Nis, Serbia 2 staff attending University Pristina, Kosovo 2 staff attending University Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Staff would be required to provide teaching contact in English to staff or students within each institution on a subject related to the NatRisk project of natural disaster risk management and/or teaching practice.
Minimum of 2 contact hours.
Remuneration is Travel €275 and Subsistence €1,120 with 70% paid before travel.
The remaining 30% paid on return satisfying visit objectives and submission of a small EU report on the visit.
Two additional days are provided for travel.
Expression of interest should be made to Dr Simon McCarthy s.mccarthy@mdx.ac.uk .
Applications should be sent by 9th August 2018.
Positions are expected to be filled by the 10th August 2018, however a reserve list will remain open to expressions of interest.
Invitation for Student Mobility’s
Two month funded student mobility’s are available to MU students for January to July 2019:
2 students attending University Nis, Serbia Students would attend the University Nis and would be ideal for post graduate or doctoral candidates in relation to developing their dissertation or research.
Subject areas are flexible but priority given to those related to the NatRisk project of natural disaster risk management and/or teaching practice.
Remuneration is Travel €275 and Subsistence €1,575 with 70% paid before travel.
Applications should be sent by 11th March 2019.
Positions are expected to be filled by the 11th March 2019.
FHRC is part of the consortium led by Collingwood Environmental Planning that is evaluating the new Defra Flood Resilience Community Pathfinder scheme.
The Pathfinder is a new grant scheme designed to enable and stimulate communities at significant or greater risk of flooding to work with key partners to develop innovative local solutions that:
Enhance flood risk management and preparedness in ways which quantifiably improve the community's overall resilience; Demonstrably improve the community's financial resilience in relation to flooding; Deliver sustained improvements which have the potential to be applied in other areas.
Under the Pathfinder scheme Defra is providing funding to thirteen local authorities across England to stimulate community action on flood resilience.
The measures being developed include property-level protection, flood resilience groups, volunteer flood wardens and community champions, engagement with more vulnerable groups and efforts to increase financial resilience.
FHRC staff are acting as advisors on the project as well as supporting the evaluation of two of the individual Pathfinder projects.
Evaluating policy interventions like the Pathfinder scheme will generate valuable information and contribute to a reliable understanding of which actions work and are effective and could thus be applied elsewhere.
Defra
2013 – 2015
FHRC contact:
Bangladesh has an abundance of water in its floodplains in the wet season, but the limited amount of surface water in the dry season drives productivity.
Past agricultural development focused on rice production (including water management - abstraction of water for irrigation, drainage, and excluding early floods).
Aquatic common pool resources, such as fisheries, that the poor in particular depend on have been declining.
This project was built on the opportunity for a 'systems approach' that offered a win-win outcome – an overall increase in floodplain productivity.
There are already many community based organisations (CBOs) responsible for managing common resources in floodplains and waterbodies that have graduated from earlier project support, but these had focused on only fisheries or water management for rice.
They provided a base for coordinated action.
This project used an adaptive learning framework to link CBOs so that they could share lessons on testing and adapting innovations in improving floodplain resource management.
The set of innovations to improve agriculture, water use and fisheries management in ways that complement one another is known as Integrated Floodplain Management (IFM).
IFM incorporates:
profitable alternative dry season crops with lower water demand than irrigated rice to conserve more water for fish in the dry season; closed seasons for protecting breeding fish and fingerlings; shorter duration rice varieties to enable earlier sluice gate opening; modified sluice gate operation to balance needs of both rice and fish; dry season sanctuaries for fish; and various other linked community initiatives.
The project aimed to improve the productivity of up to 250 floodplain areas and sustain common pool resources there.
The aim was to directly improve the livelihoods of the members of associated CBOs (about 50,000 households, of these about 31,000 are estimated to be poor - fishers or functionally landless), and indirectly benefit many of another 390,000 households (about half poor) using these resources.
IFM diversifies production systems which should contribute towards local adaptation to climate change, and towards national objectives of reducing poverty and empowering local communities to sustain responsible management of natural resources.
FHRC was responsible for research and impact assessment activities and for supporting CBOs in the western side of Bangladesh, our partners in the project were three NGOs: Bangladesh Environmental Lawyers Association (BELA), Banchte Shekha, and Center for Natural Resource Studies, and in the UK MRAG.
UK DFID through the RIU programme
Resilience-Increasing Strategies for Coasts – toolKIT (RISC-KIT) will deliver ready-to-use methods, tools and management approaches to reduce risk and increase resilience to low-frequency, high-impact hydro-meteorological events.
The open-source and free-ware RISC-KIT tool kit will consist of:
a Coastal Risk Assessment Framework (CRAF) which - at the regional scale (100's km) - can quickly assess present and future hot spot areas of coastal risk due to multi-hazards a quantitative, high-resolution Early Warning and Decision Support System (EWS/DSS) for use on these hot spots (with a scale of 10's of km) and a web-based management guide offering innovative, cost-effective, ecosystem-based DRR measures; and a Coastal Risk Database of present and historic socio-economic and physical data.
These tools will enable Europe's coastal managers, decision-makers and stakeholders to:
identify hot spot areas; produce timely forecasts and early warnings; evaluate the effect of climate-related, socio-economic and cultural changes on coastal risk; and choose the best prevention, mitigation and preparedness measures for their coast.
The toolkit will be tested using data collected on ten diverse case study sites along each of Europe's regional seas and one international site.
The toolkit's performance will be evaluated with an End-User Board of coastal managers, civil protection agencies and local governments with a vested interest in each of these case study sites.
The RISC-KIT products will help to achieve rapid attainment of UNISDR Disaster Reduction Goals and promote EU-consistent methods through innovative e-learning and open access publication.
RISC-KIT will have an active synergy with Belmont Forum projects, related EU projects and an International Expert Board with members from third countries experiencing similar types of threats.
For further information, see the RISC-KIT website.
FHRC is contributing to most project work packages but is work package leader for WP2 on improved method for regional scale vulnerability and risk assessment
2013 – 2017
The main objective of ScorePP was to develop comprehensive and appropriate source control strategies that authorities, cities, water utilities and the chemical industry could employ to reduce emissions of priority pollutants (PPs) from urban areas into the receiving water environment.
FHRC research involved the micro-economic assessment of management options for priority pollutants in water.
European Commission Sixth Framework Programme
2006 – 2011
UPRC Project Manager:
Professor Mike Revitt
FHRC Contact:
SPICOSA was an EU FP6 integrated project which focused on science and policy integration for Integrated Coastal Zone Management.
The SPICOSA premise was that decision-making processes for management and policy-formation do not always make best use of the existing knowledge.
Knowledge transfer between science and policy is, of course, of critical importance here.
However, SPICOSA argued that the problem is more than this and is about the need for differently designed research.
The project consisted of 54 partner organisations from 21 European countries who collaborated in 18 study sites to develop a holistic research approach known as the Systems Approach Framework (SAF), applying this approach to coastal science and coastal management.
SPICOSA worked on more local scales, at study sites such as the lagoon of Venice, a Norwegian fjord, or a Turkish bay.
It sought to integrate across scientific disciplines as well as between scientists and other stakeholders.
FHRC led the Science-Policy Interface Work-Package (WP1).
This work included developing guidance on the use of stakeholder and issue mapping to promote learning between stakeholders (including scientists); with suggestions for organising and analysing this information to plan and inform a collaborative process in the best possible way.
The WP also focused on the centrality of deliberation to effective science and policy integration processes it provided guidelines and highlighted tools to facilitate deliberative processes.
Institutional mapping was also explored, underscoring the importance of understanding and exploring networks of institutions and organisations within ICZM and identifying both the rules that govern the interactions between them (e.g.
laws, social relationships) and the 'players' that follow these rules, break them or "stretch" them.
Social learning was a final central theme of this work package, exploring and testing the hypothesis that the nature of the relationships between stakeholders may be as important for gaining new insights for ICZM as the actual information being exchanged.
2007 – 2011
Dr Loraine McFadden
Selected Published Reports and Papers:
Tett, P., Sandberg A., Mette, A., Bailly D., Estrada M., Hopkins, T.S., Ribeirad'Alcala M., and McFadden, L (forthcoming 2012) Perspectives of Social and Ecological Systems.
Proceedings of 2nd ICZM Symposium, Arendal, 3-7 July 2011, Wiley-Blackwell.
McFadden L and Priest S.
(2011).
Social learning for ICZM or 'prejudice, dogma and spurious common sense'.
Solutions to Coastal Disasters Conference, Norway June 26-29.
The Coasts, Oceans, Ports and Rivers Institute (COPRI) of the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE).
Mette, A.
et al.
(2011) The Systems Approach Framework Handbook
McFadden, L.
and Priest, S.
(2011) Guidance for identifying the Policy Issue , Spicosa Project Report, London, Flood Hazard Research Centre, Middlesex University.
Published online February 2011.
(2011) Using social tools in the SAF Output Step , Spicosa Project Report, London, Flood Hazard Research Centre, Middlesex University.
Mette, A., Borner, J., Sandberg, A., Vanderlinden, J-P., Mc Fadden, L., Priest, S., Lowe, C., D'Hernoncourt, J., Fernandes, T., Hirschfeld, J., Raux, P.
(2011): Guide to System Output, SPICOSA Project Report.
Berlin, Kolleg fuer Management und Gestaltung nachhaltiger Entwicklung.
(2010) SPICOSA: challenges of science and policy integration .
Editorial.
SPICOSA News Special 2010, Issue 2.
Vanderlinden, J.P., Stojanovic, Schmueli, D., Bremer, S., Kostrzewa, C and McFadden, L.
(2010) The SPICOSA Stakeholder-Policy Mapping User' Manual, complete version with worked examples.
Deliverable D1.7 SPICOSA Project, Project No: 036992.
McFadden, L., Priest, S.
and Green, C.
(2010) Introducing institutional mapping: A guide for SPICOSA scientists , Spicosa Project Report, London, Flood Hazard Research Centre, Middlesex University.
Published online February 2011 pdf.
SPICOSA WP3 (2010).
Guide to System Design , v.3.04.
Napier University, Edinburgh.
Published online February 2010
McFadden, L., Priest, S., Green, C.
and Sandberg, A.
(2009) Basic Principles of Science and Policy Integration , Spicosa Project Report, London, Flood Hazard Research Centre, Middlesex University.
(2008) Introducing social learning: A guide for SPICOSA scientists , Spicosa Project Report, London, Flood Hazard Research Centre, Middlesex University.
McFadden, L., Green, C.
(2008) Social science indicators for Integrated Coastal Zone Management (ICZM) , Spicosa Project Report, London, Flood Hazard Research Centre, Middlesex University.
Urban regions in the EU are faced with increasing flood risks due to urbanisation and the effects of climate change.
Both developments are surrounded with large uncertainties.
The STAR-FLOOD project focuses on analysing, explaining, evaluating and designing policies to better deal with flood risks from rivers in urban agglomerations across Europe.
There are several initiatives in European (e.g.
the Floods Directive) and in national and regional policies to diversify and align different Flood Risk Strategies (FRSs); five such strategies are distinguished in STAR-FLOOD: risk prevention; flood defence; mitigation; preparation; and recovery.
We start from the assumption that urban agglomerations vulnerable to flooding will be more resilient if multiple FRSs are applied simultaneously, are linked together and are aligned.
At the same time, the application of a diverse cluster of FRSs has to be appropriate, i.e.
attuned to the physical and social context.
The latter requires innovative Flood Risk Governance Arrangements (FRGAs).
In the proposed programme, insights from the fields of public administration and law will be integrated and combined.
Across different EU countries and regions, we will identify different mixes of FRSs and analyse, explain and evaluate the emergence and dominance of the governance arrangements through which these strategies are institutionally embedded.
This will be done through a comparative analysis of these FRGAs in six EU member states.
With this analysis, we aim to identify good practices and to gain understanding of the resilience of these strategies as well as their appropriateness in different physical, social and legal contexts.
The results of the programme are expected to lead to policy design principles for FRGAs and to implications for policy and law at the level of the EU, its member states, regional authorities, and public-private partnerships.
FHRC is part of an international consortium led by Utrecht University working on the project.
We are leading Work Package 1: 'Problem analysis', as well as contributing to all other research Work Packages and conducting the UK case studies in London, Hull and Glasgow.
Work Package 1 Deliverable Reports are now available on the STAR-FLOOD website.
European Commission FP7
2012-2016
Increasing global change pressures, escalating costs and other risks inherent to conventional urban water management are causing cities to face ever increasing difficulties in efficiently managing scarcer and less reliable water resources.
As well, satisfying water uses/services and waste water disposal without creating environmental, social or economic damage is an increasingly difficult challenge.
SWITCH involved innovation in the area of sustainable urban water management.
This ambitious project looked towards water management in the 'city of the future' aimed to challenge existing paradigms and to find and promote more sustainable alternatives to the conventional ways of managing urban water.
SWITCH also set out to do things differently by carrying out action-orientated research in cities that was more demand-led reflecting the expressed needs of cities.
The SWITCH project included:
Cities in four continents and at various stages of development All aspects of the water cycle – water, wastewater, stormwater and natural systems A wide range of climatic, socio-economic and institutional situations Social, economic and environmental perspectives Scales ranging from household to city levels Water as part of urban planning and the built environment From the present time to the 'City of the Future' FHRC were responsible for Governance issues.
This involved the preparation of: an overview report on governance, the development of a methodology for institutional mapping, and guidelines for procedural equity.
FHRC was also involved with Middlesex University's Urban Pollution Research Centre (UPRC) in the development of a GIS-based SUDS selection and location tool for the evaluation of hydrologic performance and storm flow reduction at the urban scale.
The Geographic Information Decision System Support tool, SUDSLOC, aims at:
Providing support for the identification and location of appropriate SUDS Supporting the integration of data (quantitative and qualitative) from a variety of sources to enable the investigation of the potential benefits of BMPs Incorporating user-friendly tools to ensure simplicity and ease of communication Requiring relatively few skills in GIS (once the spatial data are ready to use) Communicating with a range of storm modelling approaches.
Further information and an example of application can be found on the SUDSLOC flyer.
FHRC Contact for SUDSLOC:
SYSTEM-RISK is a Marie-Skłodowska-Curie European Training Network which aims on developing and implementing a systems approach for large-scale flood risk assessment and management and provides a framework for training and career development of 15 Early Stage Researchers (ESRs).
SYSTEM-RISK performs leading-edge research with spotlights on three essential pillars of flood risk research:
Risk chain: considering the complete risk chain from the Sources through the Pathways to the Receptors and Consequences.
Interactions: augmenting the Source-Pathway-Receptors-Consequences‘ model by putting interactions centre stage and, in this way, replacing the traditional linear approach of the risk chain by a more realistic approach with interdependent linkages between physical and societal processes which finally shape the spatio-temporal flood risk.
Temporal dynamics: investigating the time-varying nature of flood risk and its components on different time scales, as for instance hours to days when flood defence failures change flood probabilities, months to years when people learn from damaging floods and improve private precaution, or decades to centuries when human settlements in floodplains evolve.
FHRC are leading two ESR projects:
Funder: European Union's EU Framework Programme for Research and Innovation Horizon 2020: Marie-Skłodowska-Curie European Training Network
Duration: 2016-2019
FHRC contact: Dr Sally Priest
In recent times, coastal protection and water management in coastal lowlands has been concerned to keep water out, defend property from water and live on dry land.
Globally, and especially in parts of Europe, there has been a change in attitude towards coastal protection in response to the growing risk and uncertainty generated by climate change.
The future of flood protection is in part a return to the past, with the focus being shifted to making space for water, or techniques that allow some areas to be sacrificially flooded.
THESEUS will examine the application of innovative combined coastal mitigation and adaptation technologies generally aiming at delivering a safe (or low-risk) coast for human use/development and healthy coastal habitats as sea levels rise and climate changes (and the European economy continues to grow).
The primary objective is to provide an integrated methodology for planning sustainable defence strategies for the management of coastal erosion and flooding which addresses technical, social, economic and environmental aspects.
THESEUS objectives are governed by three specific goals, which concern: (a) risk assessment, (b) response strategies and (c) application.
2009 – 2013

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-groups/centre-for-social-and-criminological-research:
The Centre conducts rigorous independent research incorporating principles of social justice, equality, and modern citizenship.
The Centre for Social and Criminological Research (CSCR) was originally established in 1986 as the Centre for Criminology and renamed in 2014 to reflect our developing cross-disciplinary focus and activity.
The CSCR provides a hub for international and locally based research grouped within the thematic areas of political and state violence, global social movements, criminal justice, offender management and treatment, and gendered sexual relations.
The Centre's aim is to amplify the reputation of these Middlesex University research areas as widely as possible and within the international context.
Our research is theoretical as well as empirically driven.
Staff have expertise in qualitative and quantitative research methodologies and data analysis, and project evaluation.
We are interested in fostering and facilitating interdisciplinary links with academic colleagues and across professional and institutional practice.
CSCR members have extensive international research links and long-term experience in teaching on master's programmes and supervising PhD students in the fields of migration, criminal justice, youth offending, drugs, environmental crime, political violence and conflict.
We invite PhD applications in these areas.
Interested candidates are advised to contact members of staff for an informal chat and/or complete an application form .
Senior Lecturer in Criminology

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-groups/social-policy-research-centre:
We aim to investigate and raise awareness on a range of social and public policy issues, with a particular emphasis on social justice.
Established in 1990, the Social Policy Research Centre (SPRC) is an interdisciplinary, cross-departmental centre, initiating and supporting high-quality research of national and international standing.
Using innovative methodologies, we produce evidence and provide cutting-edge analysis in order to contribute to academic debates, inform policy-development and make a real impact on local, national and international practice.
Our key areas of work are:
Over the past few years, the SPRC has been involved in a wide range of research projects funded by research councils, the EU, government departments and the major charities.
We are building on this track record, continuing to attract research and KE funding and producing research outputs of outstanding international value.
Examples of recent and ongoing projects include:
Government engagement with diaspora communities in the UK , Commissioned by the UK Government, 2024 (Keles, Christou, McDonald,  Syrett)
Afghan resettlement in England: outcomes and experiences (Keles with London Met and UCL), Nuffield Foundation, 2024-2025.
This project aims to improve the effectiveness of Afghan resettlement schemes in England, by generating knowledge of newly arriving Afghan refugees’ experiences and outcomes and using this to inform implementation by regional migration partnerships and Local Authorities (LAs).
DYNAMIG How migration decisions are made: diverse aspirations, trajectories and policy effects Horizon Europe,/UKRI (Kofman, Acik) 2023-2025 (£260.037)
DYNAMIG is a three-year project that aims to create a more thorough understanding of how people make decisions on whether and how to migrate.
Focusing on Africa and Europe, we take into account the diversity of migrants’ personal experiences  of those planning to leave, in transit and  who have returned in order to shed light on the complexities and challenges of migration and managing migration movements.
We seek to contribute to a more nuanced and evidence-based understanding of the diverse trajectories of migration and of policies that impact migration and analyse to what extent the diverse experiences of migrants are taken into consideration when migration policies – or policies that impact migration – are made.
Co-creating asset and place-based approaches to tackling refugee and migrant health exclusion , UKRI/AHRC  (Kofman, Colucci, Lazzarino) 2024-2027  (£483,175).
The project explores how community assets can be used to improve health, wellbeing and social support that addresses these factors.
Examples of community assets include housing, food and support services such as advice and information services, community hubs and groups, religious organisations and open spaces.
It researches new ways for these factors to be addressed within integrated health systems that bring together services such as the NHS and local authorities as well as the voluntary sector.
We focus on two field sites - Barnet and Islington- working with a number of local community organisations, NGOs and local authorities.
In particular we are studying community assets of a number of groups - Afghans, Hong Kongers, Syrians and Ukrainians as well as Iranians and Romanians in Barnet and Italians and Somalis in Islington.
GCRF Hub Gender, Justice and Security , 2019-2024 (Kofman, Keles, Raina) (£1.2m)
The Hub’s research comprises 32 projects under six themes: Transformation and Empowerment; Livelihood, Land and Rights; Migration and Displacement; Masculinities and Sexualities; Law and Policy Frameworks and Methodological Innovation, across seven focus countries: Afghanistan, Colombia, Iraq, Lebanon, Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka and Uganda.
The Hub worked with local and global civil society, practitioners, and researchers to advance gender justice and inclusive peace.
At Middlesex university we focussed on the Migration and Displacement stream with two projects as well as another in the Empowerment and Transformation stream.
Gender Dynamics of International Labour Migration sought to advance a gender-sensitive understanding of the interaction between economic and socio-cultural drivers of labour migrations and the experiences of work and living in different cities: Erbil in Kurdistan-Iraq; Beirut in Lebanon; Islamabad in Pakistan; and Istanbul in Turkey.
While migration remains a key issue globally, relatively little work has been done on gendered migrations in the Global South, and what has been done has largely focussed on domestic and care work.
Return, Reintegration and Political Restructuring explored and analysed the gendered experiences of returnees (forced and voluntary) in Afghanistan, Kurdistan, Pakistan and Sri Lanka.
It reviewed return policies of the countries under study to understand the possibilities, challenges and obstacles for returnees in the process of participating in re-construction through their human, social and cultural capital.
Culture and Conflict (Afghanistan, India, Pakistan and Sri Lanka), investigated the value of culture to women in conflict settings, seeking to understand gendered economic exclusion and its relationship to peacebuilding, economic agency and empowerment.
It used a cultural mapping methodology to explore how communities of women across different conflict contexts rely on coded and tacit knowledge to rebuild their lives and to understand how cultural practices continue to exist and resist in these challenging contexts.
We also obtained additional funding for impact activities in Kurdistan, Iraq (Keles).
Health, social, economic & cultural impacts of Covid-19 on migrant essential workers in the UK , ESRC (Narkowicz, Glasgow and Sheffield Universities, 2020-2023
The BlueGreen Impact Project (Juntti)
The project, realised in collaboration with the London Development Trust, aimed to improve awareness and understanding of the unequal social impact of urban water features and green space in the context of housing regeneration, and to provide usable indicators and guidance that support the integration of this knowledge into community stewardship strategies.
It builds on prior funding from SNN+ and Newton Funding (UKRI) best summed up in the REF 2021 case study Working with nature to enhance urban liveability: the multi-functional role of urban blue green infrastructure.
The project received £3000 from the Middlesex University’s HEI funds for knowledge exchange.
In 2024, findings informed the Greater London Authority’s work on the new London Green Infrastructure Framework and the London Nature Recovery Strategy through staff involvement in consultation.
PHS-Quality: Job Quality and Industrial Relations in the Personal and Household sector - 2018-2020 (Erica Howard, Eleonore Kofman).
Funded by European Commission, DG Employment, Social Affairs and Inclusion.
The project studied from a comparative and multidisciplinary perspective the existing public policies and social partners’ strategies towards personal and household services in ten EU countries.
We warmly welcome proposals from potential Postgraduate Research students to study with the SPRC across any areas of our research activity.
Completed PhDs
Current PhDs
Visiting PhD students
Inter-University Migration Network with Anglia Ruskin and Greenwich Universities.
Set up in 2023, it   has held two conferences focussing on how academics and a range of organisations can  work collaboratively.
Institutional member of IMISCOE (International Migration Research Network), the largest network of migration researchers across 69 institutions globally.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-groups/work-and-learning-research-centre:
Welcome to the Work and Learning Research Centre.
Our research, engagement and knowledge exchange in work and learning is internationally renowned as leading in the production of knowledge in the field.
Our staff research sits firmly in the sphere of Education and has a pan-university remit.
Since its establishment in 1997 our work has been influential in applying theoretical perspectives from education and practice theories to empirical studies in the creation, translation and use of knowledge and innovation.
Research in the theoretical and ethical aspects of practice-based studies, especially the spaces that connect higher education with work practices brings philosophical ideas to bear on professional development including transdisciplinarity, ethics, values, and epistemologies of change.
We have been particularly successful in research which informs professional learning through a cross-disciplinary higher education curriculum that acknowledges the transdisciplinary nature of work (paid and unpaid).
For undergraduates this encompasses the work integrated learning of placements, other work-related learning and degree apprenticeships .
For professionals undertaking part-time degrees we have researched and developed curricular and pedagogies appropriate for researching professionals who have existing expertise in their own professional practice.
Our research recognises the strong associations between Equality, Diversity and Inclusion, and how knowledge is conceptualised, conducted, and evaluated.
Consequently we developed responsive methodologies for practitioner-research and engaged with the purposive role of experiential knowledge in the evaluation of research that gives relevance to change initiatives.
Our postgraduate researchers have a practice orientation, seeking to develop their own or their professional area of practice (see examples) .
Their transdisciplinary and multi-stakeholder engagement with academic and professional networks takes on challenges that cut across curricula and face current professional issues often to enhance the social good.
The Research Centre’s research and development in doctoral curricular relevant for professional learning provides our Professional Doctorates and Practice-based PhDs with integrated, practice-based approaches, aiming to enhance the exchange and translation of knowledge with considered outcomes and engagement.
The Centre’s international leadership and reputation is signified by our facilitation of the International Association for Practice Doctorates and chairing the International Conference on Professional and Practice-based Doctorates .
The Work and Learning Research Centre works closely with and is a special interest group of the Centre for Research and Scholarship in the Education Department.
Please visit Work-based Learning e-journal .
This is your opportunity to speak with our friendly academics to learn about our courses, industry connections and career paths postgraduate study at Middlesex can offer.
Learn more about postgraduate open days
Middlesex contacts: Dr Paula Nottingham
Affiliated with the Universities Association for Lifelong Learning (UALL) and the University Vocational Awards Council (UVAC)
The network is based at the Work and Learning Research Centre and provides a workshops, seminars and conferences that join with our national lobbies (UALL and UVAC) to influence the direction of work-based, work-integrated, degree apprenticeships, professional and practitioner PhDs and Professional Doctorates and other forms of work-related and practice-based learning in many higher education contexts.
We have facilitated the activities of the Universities Association for Lifelong Learning (UK) Work and Learning network since its inception in 1994.
Please contact Dr Paula Nottingham for questions about the network.
To join the network mailing list .
Middlesex Convenors for UALL: Dr Paula Nottingham and Dr Elda Nikolou-Walker
Middlesex contact: Professor Carol Costley, Chair
The International Association of Practice Doctorates influences opinion and practice through its successful seminars and workshops.
IAPD's aims are to make connections between higher education institutions, professional organisations, professional practice and research activity; to undertake support and staff development for those engaged in doctoral education; and to provide a voice for professional and practice-based doctoral research at national and international levels.
We have been leading the group and working in collaboration with the UK Council for Graduate Education (UKCGE).
Middlesex contact: Professor Darryll Bravenboer, Governing Council member
SEEC is a highly respected authority in the existing and developing field of Credit Accumulation and Transfer at higher education levels with the purpose to create learning opportunities through the use of academic credit.
SEEC serves as a reference point on credit-based learning, structures and processes in the UK and internationally in this developing field.
Formed in 1985, SEEC is a collaborative network of universities and HE providers working together to advance the use and practice of academic credit, widening access to learning.
The work and Learning Research Centre has contributed to the development of the influential SEEC Credit Level Descriptors referencing higher-level learning in work-based learning and accreditation contexts.
Middlesex contact : Professor Carol Costley, Chair
The Work and Learning Research centre co-hosts the International Conference on Professional Doctorates with the UK Council for Graduate Education (UKCGE).
The conference series addresses issues surrounding the innovative ways that higher education, professional associations, businesses and other stakeholders are creating new opportunities in doctorate level learning.
The conferences have been held in London, Edinburgh, Florence, Cardiff and Belfast, attracting international delegates – especially from the United States, Australia, New Zealand and Europe.
The next conference event will be in York 25th and 26th February 2021.
There is also now a collaboration every other year with seminars/ workshops on similar topics.
Middlesex contact: Professor Darryll Bravenboer, Board Member
The University Vocational Awards Council (UVAC) representing the higher and further education sector  providing an independent voice for our members on matters relating to higher level vocational learning.
Its mission is to champion higher level vocational learning.
UVAC promote:
WBLRC have contributed significantly to the work of UVAC, not least in the area of policy and practice relating to the role of universities in Higher Apprenticeship development.
WBLRC has also engaged in joint research with UVAC (see research tab and provided editorial support for the UVAC Journal – Higher Level Skills and Work-Based Learning.
Housing, Health and Safety-Rating System Review- investigate assessors and stakeholders training needs and establish a competency framework 2020-2022
Jill Stewart and Carol Costley
Creating institutional conditions for sustainable degree apprenticeships (2019-2020) Darryll Bravenboer led a Middlesex University consortium of Sheffield Hallam, Staffordshire Universities and UVAC
The Conscious Business and Work Based Learning Project Carol Costley, Nico Pizzolato and Carl Lyons 2016-2017
Carol Costley, Lisa Clarke, Nico Pizzolato, Susan Scott-Hunt, David Boud, Intellectual Property Regulation Board, Evaluation Research Project 2016-17
Nico Pizzolato, Gorkem Akgoz, Back into the factory: writing theory and practice of the industrial workplace into 21st century history and social theory , Newton Advanced Fellowship Funded Research Project in cooperation with Hacetteppe University, Turkey, 2015-17
Carol Costley, Nico Pizzolato, Darryl Bravenboer, "Work Based Learning - Didactic tools for extra-occupational studying?
Learning from Europe", Brandenburg Fachhoch Schule, 2014
Supervising the Modern Doctorate reports and activities about the Erasmus+ project on Best  Supervision Practices in Professional Doctorate (2014-17)
Bacher, T., Costley, C., Etherington, D., Geiger, G., Hefler, G., Helemäe, J.,  Markowitsch, J., Roosalu, T., Saar, E.,Tamm, A.
and Ure, O.
(2013) Cooperation between education and training and the labour market in renewing VET CEDEFOP
Costley, C.
and Dikerdem, M.
(2011) Work based learning pedagogies and academic development.
Project Report for Escalate
Maguire, K., Costley, C.
and Scott-Hunt, S.
(2010) Work Based Learning; new framework for solicitors evaluation Project Report for the Solicitors Regulation Authority
(2009) An assessment of Work Based Learning students’ engagement with the university Project Report for the Higher Education Academy.
Nixon, I., Willis, K., Major, D., Young, D., Tongue, A., Costley, C., Abukari, A., Biddle, P., Graham, S., McClenaghan, K., Helyer, R., Beadsmoore, A., Karuk, V., Siara, B.
& Urwin, P.
(2008) Work-based learning impact study .
York: Higher Education Academy.
Costley, C., Stephenson, J.
and Abukari, A.
(2008) A Feasibility Study for A Workforce Development Centre for Wales funded by the Higher Education Funding Council for Wales.
Costley, C., Abukari, A.
and Little, B.
(2008) A Literature Review of Employee learning Research Report, York: Higher Education Academy
(2008) The Impact of Work Based Learning in Higher Education Research Report.
York; Higher Education Academy
Garnett, J., Portwood, D.
and Costley, C.
(2004) Bridging Rhetoric and Reality: Accreditation of prior experiential learning (APEL) in the UK report commissioned by the University Vocational Awards Council
Armsby and Costley (2002) Practice-based research methodologies for practitioner-researcher Report of a pan-university research initiative NCWBLP, Middlesex University
Armsby, P.
and Costley, C.
and Weller, G.
(2021) The Role of Practice in Doctoral Degrees Research in Post-Compulsory Education.
special issue 26 (2) forthcoming
(2019)  Professional Doctorate Curriculum, Pedagogy and Achievements Studies in Continuing Education , special issue 41 (2).
135-141.
Gibbs, P.
(Ed) (2015) ‘ Transdisciplinary Professional Learning and Practice, Switzerland; Springer
(2011) The impact of the Centres for Excellence in Teaching and Learning on the development of work‐related learning in the UK.
Higher Education Skills and Work-based learning – vol 1 (3)
(2009) ' Work-based learning in higher education', special issue, The European Journal of Education, Vol 44 (3)
Young, D.
and Garnett, J.
(2009) Refereed Proceedings from Work-based Learning Futures III, conference, Derby, April
Garnett, J.
and Young, D.
(2008) Refereed Proceedings from the Work-based Learning Futures II, conference, Middlesex, May 2008
Costley, C, (2007) The worker as researcher special issue of Journal of Workplace Learning, Vol 19 (3),
Elliott, J.
and Dikerdem, M.
(2007) Work Based Learning and the worker researcher Special issue of Research in Post-compulsory Education , 12 (3).
277-278.
ISSN 1359-6748
(2007) Refereed Proceedings from Work Based Learning Futures conference April, Derby.
Costley C.
(Ed) (2007) Work based learning: assessment and evaluation in higher education Special issue of Assessment and Evaluation in Higher Education
(2002) Work Based Learning - Models and Implementations Special issue of New Capability , vol 5.
No.1
(2001) special issue of The Learning Organization , vol.
8(2)
Portwood, D.
eds.(2000) Work based learning and the university: new perspectives and practices .
SEDA Paper (109).
SEDA, Birmingham, pp.
23-35.
ISBN 1902435125 Click here to view this paper on the Seda website
Superprof Doc - Annette Fillery Travis Principal investigator of the EU Erasmus + RA2 project SUPERProfdoc (187,000), Supervising the Modern Doctorate reports and activities about the Erasmus+ project on Best  Supervision Practices in Professional Doctorate (2014-17)
The Work and Learning Research centre in the Department of Education offers a PhD degree for those candidates who wish to engage in research in the practice-based fields of Work Based Learning as an area of study and academic inquiry.
These degrees are suitable for advanced practitioners who seek to develop professional knowledge at doctoral level in the academic field, usually with the aim to influence their organisations or communities of practice.
This fast-developing area of practice-based research engages with education and practice theories.
Work-related issues can involve a broad conception of the term ‘work’ (paid or unpaid) that contribute to this area of inquiry through independent doctoral study.
It is a field that it is transdisciplinary, as professional and work-based practice crosses boundaries of academic disciplines.
Likely areas of inquiry can include, but are not limited to: policy issues regarding work and higher education; issues around professional development; learning and development in communities of practices or organisations; processes of accreditation of learning; pedagogical theories and models underpinning work and learning, the relation between theory and specific contexts of practice; concepts and theories guiding professional practice in a specific field.
Typically, a PhD in work based learning or professional studies will take 4-7 years part-time culminating with a thesis of 40,000 - 80,000 words.
All PhD students at Middlesex initially enrol on an MPhil and then transfer to a PhD degree.
This part-time degree is specifically for professionals and experts in their fields who already have distinctive and relevant work(s) in the public sphere of the appropriate breadth and depth.
These work(s) could be reports, guides, policy documents, software, artistic works, journal articles, books etc.
but they must demonstrate originality.
The works will be submitted along with a context statement that reflects and informs the submission of the work(s).
The context statement of 10,000 – 30,000 words is written once the candidate has been registered and enrolled, under supervision with at least 2 supervisors to complete the submission.
The degree is of an equivalent level to the PhD by thesis.
Examples can be found in the Middlesex Research Repository
Public Works PhD
All the MProf/DProf awards have the professional equivalent to the PhD and the same rigorous assessment methods and criteria.
The Professional Studies Transdisciplinary M/DProfs open to experienced practitioners from all professional areas who bring a high level of curiosity and passion to their commitment to make a positive difference to their sector/field.
It is designed to help the individual practitioner respond to the complex, high level challenges that show up in their context.
Candidates for this award undertake a critical reflection on personal and professional practice followed by a piece of doctoral level practice–focused research in the Candidate’s own context, organisation or community of practice.
At the end of the programme a research thesis is submitted and presented at a viva.
On successful completion of this final milestone, the award of a doctorate is made and the Candidate can be addressed as Doctor.
The MProf/DProf can also be studies through the disciplines of Health and Education/ Science and Technology where specialisms include Health, Education, Environment, Risk, Disaster Risk and Response, Psychology, Criminology, Sociology, Social Work, Housing and Regeneration, International Relations, Social and Public Policy, Tourism and Hospitality Management, Sport and Biomedical Science.
MProf/DProf Health and Education/ Science and Technology
Candidates are advised by supervisors experienced in work and learning and directing a practice-oriented approach to doctoral study.
A second and sometimes third supervisor is consulted for expert subject knowledge in the academic and/or professional sphere.
PhD candidates join a community of scholars and practitioners at the internationally recognised Work and Learning Research Centre who have been working at the forefront of their field.
Candidates are encouraged to publish their work and develop their academic and professional careers.
“ A degree apprenticeship is a particular type of job, which combines work with higher-level learning, and which leads to an undergraduate or postgraduate degree.
Apprentices spend most of their week at work.
But they also spend at least 20 per cent of their time in off-the-job study or training”
(OfS, 2023).
Please see these links for further information:
Our transdisciplinary approach is able to address the complexities that arise for individuals and organisations when scoping and carrying out research into professional practice for a range of purposes.
In this enduring and successful engagement, leaders, managers and employees from a wide range of sectors explore and navigate through the complex nature of their everyday work.
Our conception of work encompasses all workers paid and unpaid and all valued contributions to practice.
Such diverse domains of practices and disciplines, both within and outside organisations and professional communities enable candidates on our programmes to arrive at innovative and relevant change programmes or solutions to sticky problems.
The transdisciplinary approach recognises that the professional is no longer discipline bound but negotiates across a range of disciplines and seeks solutions through using knowledge and skills drawn from diverse fields and domains.
The University’s Researcher Development Programme runs all year to provide research training either face to face or in the form of webinars accessed remotely.
Additionally, the Research Centre provides research tutorials, seminars and meetings with research students, staff and guest speakers aimed at providing academic training in the methodology, epistemology and subject-matter of the field.
Our integrating University themes
Please email Professor Carol Costley or call 0208 4116 524 and leave a message.
The Work and Learning Research Centre has been particularly successful in carrying out research and knowledge exchange which informs professional learning programme content, from certificate to doctoral level, within and beyond its own university.
Transdisciplinary connotes a unity of knowledge beyond disciplines that has been developed for over 30 years.
Our research centre has developed a transdisciplinary approach from the knowledge co-creation between University and professional communities, bodies and organisations in the UK and internationally.
Please refer to the following case studies:
March-Oct 2023
KE funding from Education and Training Foundation on behalf of the Apprenticeship Workforce Development programme to Middlesex University, Consalia Ltd, and the Open University for the Apprenticeship Workforce Development Programme; sponsored by the Education & Training Foundation and the Department for Education with support from the University Vocational Awards Council.
The project ‘Mobilising provider insights for degree apprenticeships: comparing theoretical models to deliver effective integration for on and off the job learning’ is being supported by the University Vocational Awards Council.
Project Team: Paula Nottingham (lead), Yan Mao (Middlesex) Sarah Bloomfield, Susan Timmons, Amanda Smith (Open University) Louise Sutton (Consalia Sales Business School)
The W&L RC is developing a research brief to share with the wider CPD team and feed into the long term aims of the project.
https://www.intra.mdx.ac.uk/news-views/announcements/2024/february/help-to-shape-our-provisions-for-professionals
This project will involve a review of the Governments proposals for the Lifelong Loan Entitlement signalled in the Skills for Jobs White Paper
https://www.gov.uk/government/consultations/lifelong-loan-entitlement
The entitlement is that individuals will, in future, be able to take out loans equivalent to four years of post-18 education over their lifetime.
This will enable learners to retrain and upskill throughout their lives in response to changing skills needs and employment patterns.
The three elements to the entitlement:
https://wonkhe.cmail19.com/t/d-e-zhkjiuk-jljiuddriy-tt/
https://wonkhe.cmail20.com/t/d-e-zhyyhuy-jljiuddriy-tj/
https://www.bbk.ac.uk/news/birkbeck-sponsors-new-report-on-lifelong-learning
Exploring student perceptions of existing communities of practice (CoP) within a Degree Apprenticeship to enable the greater adoption of inclusivity principles for work-integrated studies.
This project explores critical elements of practice for the student experience and seeks to find steps that could enhance the development of more inclusive practice within the BSc (Hons) Business to Business Sales Degree Apprenticeship (partnered with Consalia Ltd) and work-integrated learning within Higher Education more generally.
This research was presented as a conference paper at the Researching Work and Learning 12 Conference in Toronto 2022.
Paula Nottingham (Ed) and Yan Mao (MBT).
Data from mathematics students in S&T were analysed by experienced researchers in Work-based learning.
A report has been written that will inform future CPD projects and  to share the findings more widely and support Middlesex researchers.
Snezana Lawrence (SAT), Elda Nikolou-Walker (Ed), Carol Costley (Ed), David Boud (Ed)
This project involves and engages students in the enhancement of the mathematics assessment strategy and will add to the body of knowledge relating to assessment in non-traditional forms.
Mathematics learned societies are concerned that open-book assessments do not provide the desired academic integrity and urge caution in the removal of traditional exams.
Middlesex is taking a lead in this national conversation as it is believed that technology-supported coursework provides greater opportunity for authentic real-world assessment.
The connectivity afforded by this digital platform can improve academic integrity and provide options to students as the best way to gauge their learning.
Alison Megeney, (SAT),  Nick Sharples (SAT), Elda Nikolou-Walker ( W&LR.C.
)
Darryll Bravenboer, W&LR.C SIG/CERS in partnership with the Open University (OU), the University Vocational Awards Council (UVAC) and Credit Works.
The project focuses on the recognition of prior learning by both ascribing credit value to specific healthcare apprenticeships and by establishing a national standard for accrediting prior experiential learning (APEL), including learning achieved through work.
https://uvac.ac.uk/update-accreditation-of-prior-experiential-learning-apel-standardisation-project/
Manchester Met in partnership with Middlesex (Darryll Bravenboer, W&LR.C.
and Director Centre for Apprenticeships and Skills), Wolverhampton, Kingston universities and the University Vocational Awards Council are working on a QAA funded Collaborative enhancement research project to systematically analysethe pedagogical challenges of developing and delivering degree apprenticeship programmes.
David Boud, Carol Costley, Steven Cranfield, Paula Nottingham, Elda Nikolou-Walker, Dilys Wilson and Jeenal Desai (Education), Kathy Wilson and Justin MacDermott (Health), Mehmet Dikerdem (Law), Simon Roberts (Business School), Tim Riley (ACI)
The ‘outputs’ of this activity were developed into a collaborative research report, published paper and resources that will be of value to Schools at Middlesex University and the wider sector.
(2022): The pivotal role of student assessment in work-integrated learning, Higher Education Research & Development, DOI:10.1080/07294360.2022.2152981
Middlesex is a delivery partner for the Aspire London project, lead by London South Bank University.
The pan-London project is funded (£5m) through the European Social Fund and the Greater London Authority and will support unemployed or low waged Londoners gain new skills and progress in their careers.
Darryll Bravenboer, ( W&LR.C .), Stan Lester and Finbar Lillis (Middlesex Associate Researchers)
Key aspects of best practice that underpin tri-partite review practice are established as a signature pedagogy for apprenticeships and police education.
Middlesex leads the Police Education Consortium delivering police education to Surrey, Sussex and Hampshire police forces.
The research involved examining data and evidence from identified Consortium university and police force partner staff including existing student officers, regarding the practice of conducting tri-partite reviews across Police Education Consortium programmes.
Darryll Bravenboer, published initial findings of research on social mobility and apprenticeships
David Boud and Carol Costley (Education) Steve Marshall (Ashridge) Brian Sutton (Business School) and DProf Alumni collaborated with DProf candidates and graduates for this research.
The nature and size of the organisation or professional field within which candidates operate were explored, the nature of their responsibilities and the degree of buy-in of their organisation (or professional field in the case of those not employed within an organisation, e.g.
consultants) to the particular study they undertake were considered.
The work made a contribution to the understanding of the effect and effectiveness of professional doctorates.
This research led to a publication: Boud, D.
, Costley, C.
, Marshall, S.
and Sutton, B.
(2021) Impacts of a professional practice doctorate: a collaborative enquiry.
Higher Education Research and Development, 40 (3) .
431-445.This in turn can be fed back to the conduct of DProfs to improve such programmes.
Email: S.Corrie@mdx.ac.uk
Professor Sarah Corrie is a Consultant Clinical Psychologist, Chartered Psychologist, Registered Coaching Psychologist and HCPC Registered Practitioner Psychologist.
An author of over 80 articles for academic journals, professional journals and trade magazines, and seven books including, The Art of Inspired Living: Coach Yourself with Positive Psychology; Making Effective Decisions in Counselling and Psychotherapy (with David Lane), and most recently Supervision in the Psychological Professions (with David Lane & Mary Watts), she has extensive experience in both the public and private sectors.
Sarah is an Academic Advisor for Middlesex University where she is also a Visiting Professor.
Her other roles at Middlesex include Membership Officer for the International Association for Practice Doctorates.
Sarah is the Programme Director of the Postgraduate Diploma & MSc in Cognitive Behavioural Psychotherapy offered by Royal Holloway University of London and Central and North West London Foundation Trust.
She has extensive experience in supervising and training practitioners in the fields of psychology, psychotherapy and coaching, both nationally and internationally.
As a Founder Member and former Chair of the British Psychological Society’s Special Group in Coaching Psychology, she has a strong and long-standing commitment to developing and promoting coaching as a discipline and profession.
She was the recipient of the British Psychological Society’s Distinguished Contributions to Coaching Psychology Award in December 2016.
Email: R.Yeung@mdx.ac.uk
Before practising as a professional accountant, Raymond had had 10 years’ experience in film industry.
He had plenty of experience in taking care of entertainer's tax, finance and performance engagements.
Apart from his financial education and professional status in Hong Kong, Canada and the U.S.A.
Raymond has a strong background in law, professional education and operation management.
His main interest is in international tax planning, brand building and management.
He has extensive experience in helping clients set up standard costing and cost control systems, build and manage their corporate and personal brand.
Karen Evans is Professor in UCL Institute of Education, University College London.
She is a leading researcher in the UK Economic and Social Research Council’s Research Centre LLAKES, investigating Learning and Life Chances in Knowledge Economies and Societies.
Her research interests are learning in life and work transitions, and learning in and through the workplace.
She has directed major studies of learning and work in Britain and internationally, publishing widely in articles and books including Youth and Work Transitions in Changing Social Landscapes (2013), The Sage Handbook of Workplace Learning (2011); Improving Literacy at Work (2011); Learning, Work and Social Responsibility (2009) and Improving Workplace Learning (2006).
She is a Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences.
Email: D.Lane@mdx.ac.uk
David Lane is Director and co-founder of the Professional Development Foundation, which has for forty years pioneered work-based professional development.
As well as contributing to research and the professional development of coaching Professor Lane has coached in a wide range of organisations including major consultancies, multinationals, and public sector and government bodies.
He also pioneered the international development of work based masters and doctorate degrees for experienced coaches.
He has published widely on coaching.
He co-created the International Centre for the Study of Coaching at Middlesex.
Publishing widely in coaching - education – counselling and management he has also developed the field of supervision within professional bodies.
He was Chair of the British Psychological Society Register of Psychologists Specialising in Psychotherapy and convened the European Federation of Psychologists Associations group on Psychotherapy.
He has served on committees of the BPS, CIPD, WABC and EMCC, as well as being a founder member of the Global Coaching Community.
His contributions to counselling psychology led to the senior award of the BPS for “Outstanding Scientific Contribution”.
In 2009 the British Psychological Society honoured him for his Distinguished Contribution to Professional Psychology.
In 2016 he was made an Honorary Associate of the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons for contributions to developing the field of general practice and the professional development of its members and also was elected a Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-groups/biodiversity-environment-conservation-and-sustainability-research-group-becos:
The core aim of the Biodiversity, Environment, Conservation, and Sustainability (BECoS) group is to advance knowledge and inform practices that enhance the health and resilience of ecosystems and their living components; from the simplest of microbes to the vertebrates that depend upon them.
Integrating a range of innovative approaches and techniques (from sustainable urban drainage approach to phytoremediation, drone technology and bioinformatics, proteomics, biomonitoring and more), we take a whole systems approach to addressing an array of environmental issues.
Our research focuses upon ecosystems experiencing anthropogenic drive impacts and challenges to biodiversity maintenance, ranging from the Scottish Highlands to the Amazonian region, encompassing both wild areas and highly modified to urban environments.
Our research outputs generate new knowledge, inform policy development and support its subsequent implementation.
Thus, we support the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and further understanding and conservation efforts to ensure the survival of the intricate tapestry of life on Earth.
Funding: British Council
Partnership: Middlesex University, Vellore Institute of Technology (India)
This partnership aims to create accessible, real-time solutions to track and address heavy metal contamination, fostering global efforts to restore polluted environments and protect biodiversity.
Partnership: Middlesex University, Barnet Council, Friends of the Earth Barnet, Mother’s Climate Action Network
Clean Air Barnet is a collaborative initiative focusing on improving urban air quality, engaging students and the public in environmental monitoring.
We gather data that raises awareness, informs decision-making, and promotes healthier environments in Barnet.
MDXWorks Internship
Our group currently provides students with hands-on experience studying Anurida maritima (seashore springtail), an intertidal species.
This work explores how species adapt and survive in changing habitats, contributing to conservation research.
Funding: Network Rail
Partnership: Middlesex University, London South Bank University
This project explored the potential of carbonic anhydrase (CA)-producing bacteria to stabilise soils through calcite precipitation, creating a natural biocement that enhances soil engineering properties.
This biotechnological advancement could offer an environmentally friendly solution for soil stabilisation in infrastructure projects.
Funding: Barnet Council
We worked with Barnet Council to identify the key challenges to sustainability in the area, helping local leaders make informed decisions on climate action.
Pooja S, Tong YW, Mohapatra S, Purchase D, Khuntia HK, Singh SP.
(eds) 2024.
Waste to Energy: Sustainable Approaches for Emerging Economies.
Elsevier.
ISBN 9780443223563
Meandira, W., Mavroulidou, M., Timmermans, M., Gunn, M., Gray, C., Pantoja Munoz, L.
and Purchase, D.
2024.
A study of bacteria producing carbonic anhydrase enzyme for CaCO3 precipitation and soil biocementation.
Environmental Science and Pollution Research.
31 (33), pp.
45818-45833.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11356-024-34077-0
Folkes, M., Castro-Gutierrez, V., Lundy, L., Bajón-Fernández, Y., Soares, A., Jeffrey, P.
and Hassard, F.
Campus source to sink wastewater surveillance of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2).
Current Research in Microbial Sciences.
6, p.
100240.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.crmicr.2024.100240
Gonzalez Baez, A., Pantoja Munoz, L., Timmermans, M., Garelick, H.
Molding the future: optimization of bioleaching of rare earth elements from electronic waste by Penicillium expansum and insights into its mechanism.
Bioresource Technology.
402.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biortech.2024.130750
Sobroza, T., Gordo, M., Dunn, J., Pequeno, P., Naissinger, B.
and Barnett, A.
Pied tamarins change their vocal behavior in response to noise levels in the largest city in the Amazon.
American Journal of Primatology.
86 (5).
https://doi.org/10.1002/ajp.23606
Christou, A., Beretsou, V., Iakovides, I., Karaolia, P., Michael, C., Benmarhnia, T., Chefetz, B., Donner, E., Gawlik, B., Lee, Y., Lim, T., Lundy, L., Maffettone, R., Rizzo, L., Topp, E.
and Fatta-Kassinos, D.
Sustainable wastewater reuse for agriculture.
Nature Reviews Earth and Environment.
5 (7), p.
504–521.
https://doi.org/10.1038/s43017-024-00560-y
Timmermans, M., King, M., Purchase, D., Dickins, J.A., Dickins, T.
and Kett, S.
Turning the tide: rhythmic aggregation behaviour in Anurida maritima (Collembola) is entrained by inundation.
Journal of Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology.
581.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jembe.2024.152062
Futughe, A.E., Jones, H.
A novel technology of solarization and phytoremediation enhanced with biosurfactant for the sustainable treatment of PAH contaminated soil.
Environmental Geochemistry and Health.
45 (6), pp.
3847-3863.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10653-022-01460-0
Matuszewska, M., Dabrowska, A., Murray, G., Kett, S., Vick, A., Banister, S., Pantoja Munoz, L., Cunningham, P., Welch, J., Holmes, M.
and Weinert, L.
Absence of Staphylococcus aureus in wild populations of fish supports a spillover hypothesis.
Microbiology Spectrum.
11 (4).
https://doi.org/10.1128/spectrum.04858-22
Amabogha, O., Garelick, H., Jones, H.
Combining phytoremediation with bioenergy production: developing a multi criteria decision matrix for plant species selection.
30 (14), pp.
40698-40711.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11356-022-24944-z
Yadav, S., Tripathi, S., Purchase, D.
and Chandra, R.
Development of a biofilm-forming bacterial consortium and quorum sensing molecules for the degradation of lignin-containing organic pollutants.
Environmental Research.
226.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envres.2023.115618
Dasgupta, D., Majumder, S., Adhikari, J., Ghosh, P., Purchase, D., Garelick, H., Debsarkar, A.
and Chatterjee, D.
Environmental impact of e-waste management in Indian microscale informal sectors.
30 (11), pp.
29581-29597.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11356-022-23700-7
Thaler, T., Hudson, P., Viavattene, C.
Natural flood management: Opportunities to implement nature‐based solutions on privately owned land.
WIREs Water.
10 (3).
https://doi.org/10.1002/wat2.1637
Purchase, D.
Valorisation of brewery wastes in a circular bioeconomy – from low-cost animal feed to high-value products.
in: Wong, M.H., Purchase, D.
and Dickinson, N.
(ed.) Food Waste Valorisation: Food, Feed, Fertiliser, Fuel and Value-Added Products World Scientific.
471-502
Hassard, F., Vu, M., Rahimzadeh, S., Castro-Gutierrez, V., Stanton, I., Burczynska, B., Wildeboer, D., Baio, G., Brown, M., Garelick, H., Hofman, J., Kasprzyk-Hordern, B., Majeed, A., Priest, S., Denise, H., Khalifa, M., Bassano, I., Wade, M., Grimsley, J., Lundy, L., Singer, A.
and Di Cesare, M.
Wastewater monitoring for detection of public health markers during the COVID-19 pandemic: Near-source monitoring of schools in England over an academic year.
PLoS ONE.
18 (5).
https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0286259
Timmermans, M., Prabha, H.
Wolbachia and Spiroplasma endosymbionts in the Anurida maritima (Collembola) species group.
Evolutionary Journal of the Linnean Society.
2 (1).
https://doi.org/10.1093/evolinnean/kzad001
Oluwadipe, S., Garelick, H., McCarthy, S.
2022.
A critical review of household recycling barriers in the United Kingdom.
Waste Management & Research: The Journal for a Sustainable Circular Economy.
40 (7), pp.
905-918.
https://doi.org/10.1177/0734242X211060619
Gonzalez Baez, A., Pantoja Munoz, L., Garelick, H.
Characterization of industrially pre-treated waste printed circuit boards for the potential recovery of rare earth elements.
Environmental Technology and Innovation.
27.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eti.2022.102481
Castro-Gutierrez, V., Hassard, F., Vu, M., Leitao, R., Burczynska, B., Wildeboer, D., Stanton, I., Rahimzadeh, S., Baio, G., Garelick, H., Hofman, J., Kasprzyk-Hordern, B., Kwiatkowska, R., Majeed, A., Priest, S., Grimsley, J., Lundy, L., Singer, A.
Monitoring occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 in school populations: A wastewater-based approach.
17 (6).
https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0270168
Beretsou, V., Nika, M., Manoli, K., Michael, C., Sui, Q., Lundy, L., Revitt, D., Thomaidis, N.
Multiclass target analysis of contaminants of emerging concern including transformation products, soil bioavailability assessment and retrospective screening as tools to evaluate risks associated with reclaimed water reuse.
Science of the Total Environment.
852.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2022.158391
Vassallo, A., Kett, S., Purchase, D.
and Marvasi, M.
The bacterial urban resistome: recent advances.
Antibiotics.
11 (4), pp.
1-17.
https://doi.org/10.3390/antibiotics11040512
Antibiotic-resistant genes and bacteria as evolving contaminants of emerging concerns (e-CEC): is it time to include evolution in risk assessment?
10 (9), pp.
1-11.
https://doi.org/10.3390/antibiotics10091066
Kett, S., Pathak, A., Turillazzi, S., Cavalieri, D.
Antifungals, arthropods and antifungal resistance prevention: lessons from ecological interactions.
Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences.
288 (1944), pp.
1-7.
https://doi.org/10.1098/rspb.2020.2716
Revitt, D., Lundy, L.
Development of a qualitative approach to assessing risks associated with the use of treated wastewater in agricultural irrigation.
Journal of Hazardous Materials.
406, pp.
1-9.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jhazmat.2020.124286
Lindfors, S., Österlund, H., Lundy, L.
and Viklander, M.
Evaluation of measured dissolved and bio-met predicted bioavailable Cu, Ni and Zn concentrations in runoff from three urban catchments.
Journal of Environmental Management.
287.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jenvman.2021.112263
Hassanin, A., Veron, G., Ropiquet, A., Jansen van Vuuren, B., Lécu, A., Goodman, S., Haider, J.
and Nguyen Thanh, T.
Evolutionary history of Carnivora (Mammalia, Laurasiatheria) inferred from mitochondrial genomes.
16 (2).
https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0240770
Safdar, M., Mavroulidou, M., Gunn, M., Purchase, D., Gary, C., Payne, I.
and Garelick, J.
Towards the development of sustainable ground improvement techniques—biocementation study of an organic soil.
Circular Economy and Sustainability.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s43615-021-00071-8
Landeryou, T., Ropiquet, A., Kett, S., Wildeboer, D.
and Lawton, S.
2020.
Characterization of the complete mitochondrial genome of Diplostomum baeri.
Parasitology International.
79.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.parint.2020.102166
Kishor, R., Purchase, D., Ferreira, L., Mulla, S., Bilal, M.
and Bharagava, R.
Environmental and health hazards of textile industry wastewater pollutants and its treatment approaches.
in: Hussain, C.
(ed.) Handbook of Environmental Materials Management Cham, Switzerland Springer Nature.
1-24
Islam, M., Durie, I., Ramadan, R., Purchase, D.
Exploitation of nitric oxide donors to control bacterial adhesion on ready‐to‐eat vegetables and dispersal of pathogenic biofilm from polypropylene.
Journal of the Science of Food and Agriculture.
100 (7), pp.
3078-3086.
https://doi.org/10.1002/jsfa.10340
Purchase, D., Abbasi, G., Bisschop, L., Chatterjee, D., Ekberg, C., Ermolin, M., Fedotov, P., Garelick, H., Isimekhai, K., Kandile, N., Lundstrom, M., Matharu, A., Miller, B., Pineda, A., Popoola, O., Retegan, T., Ruedel, H., Serpe, A., Shevah, Y., Surati, K., Walsh, F., Wilson, B.
and Wong, M.
Global occurrence, chemical properties, and ecological impacts of e-wastes (IUPAC technical report).
Pure and Applied Chemistry.
92 (11), pp.
1733-1767.
https://doi.org/10.1515/pac-2019-0502
Timmermans, M., Srivathsan, A., Collins, S., Meier, R.
and Vogler, A.
Mimicry diversification in Papilio dardanus via a genomic inversion in the regulatory region of engrailed – invected.
287 (1926).
https://doi.org/10.1098/rspb.2020.0443
Futughe, A., Purchase, D.
and Jones, H.
Phytoremediation using native plants.
in: Shmaefsky, B.
(ed.) Phytoremediation.
Concepts and Strategies in Plant Sciences Cham, Switzerland Springer Nature.
285-327
Deviller, G., Lundy, L.
Recommendations to derive quality standards for chemical pollutants in reclaimed water intended for reuse in agricultural irrigation.
Chemosphere.
240, pp.
1-8.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chemosphere.2019.124911
Our team is part of an expansive global network, collaborating with leading institutions and experts to advance our research.
Internationally, we partner with esteemed organisations such as the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC), the University of Florence, the University of Cagliari, Luleå University of Technology, the University of Nigeria Nsukka, Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University, Vellore Institute of Technology, and Lincoln University New Zealand.
Within the UK, we work closely with highly regarded institutions including The Natural History Museum, Rothamsted Research, Zoological Society of London (ZSL), Network Rail, Thames Water, Thames 21,  Wester Ross Fisheries Trust, The Lundy Field Society, the London Borough of Barnet, Westminster City Council, King’s College London, Queen Mary University of London, London South Bank University, the University of Aberdeen, and Scotland’s Rural College (SRUC).
MDX students’ digital air quality campaign goes on display in Edgware town centre
Group Lead: Prof Diane Purchase Professor of Environmental Biotechnology
Co-Lead: Dr Alejandra Gonzalez Baez Microbiology/Biosciences Technician
Valentina Basso Lecturer in Environmental Health
Salma Conner Lecturer in Environmental Health
Prof Hemda Garelick Professor Emeritus
Dr Huw Jones Associate Professor of Environmental Chemistry
Prof Lian Lundy Professor of Environmental Science
Dr Leonardo Pantoja Munoz Technical Tutor Analytical Chemistry
Dr Giovanni Quattrone Senior Lecturer in Computer Science
Dr Martijn Timmermans DoP Natural Science/Associate Professor in Biology
Dr Christophe Viavattene Associate Professor of Environmental Sustainability
Dr Dirk Wildeboer Senior Lecturer Bioscience and Biomedical Science
Julia Wilson Senior Lecturer in Environmental Health
Dr Steve Kett Visiting Lecturer
Dr Anne Ropiquet Queen Mary University of London
Dr Adrian Barnett University of Roehampton
For enquiries, collaborations, or more information about our research, please contact Prof Diane Purchase (D.Purchase@mdx.ac.uk)
LinkedIn
Twitter/X
Instagram

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-groups/business-ethics-accountability-and-governance-research-cluster:
The Business Ethics, Accountability and Governance Research Cluster is a collaborative, cross-disciplinary group which works on issues relating to the impact of business and organisations on society.
Our members come from a range of academic backgrounds including management, accounting, law and politics, and our diversity allows us to approach our research with creativity and an open mind.
We work on collaborative, innovative research projects and host events designed to facilitate open discussions with a breadth of stakeholders on important, current issues.
The skills and expertise within the cluster inform the cutting-edge teaching practices of Middlesex University.
A priority is to create quality research with high impact.
Two cluster-related impact case studies were part of Middlesex University’s ‘Business and Management’ REF2021 submission, ranked 1st for impact across all UK universities.
Tim Freeman and Lilian Miles (external cluster member)
Our suite of work related to Sexual and Reproductive Health (SRH) in SE Asia marshals the collective efforts of academics in the UK and Malaysia, local NGO practitioners, and staff from international relief agencies.
Focused on UN Sustainable Development Goals #3 (health and well-being) and #5 (gender equality), these projects support the development, delivery and evaluation of SRH interventions to migrant and refugee communities within Malaysia.
The research has had demonstrable impact on policy and practice alongside academic impact through publication in academic journals ranked highly in the ABS list (ABS 3* and 4*).
Project materials were included in an Impact Case Study submitted to Business and Management (UOA17) in REF2021 – and our ongoing projects are building strong impact and outputs for the future.
Recent projects:
Staff involved: Andrea Werner, Siân Stephens
Building on long-standing research within Middlesex University Business School on the national minimum wage and ethical and social responsibility of business, this research stream investigates employers’ adoption of the voluntary or real Living Wage .
A key research focus has been the engagement of small and medium-sized enterprises with the real Living Wage , with the Barrow Cadbury Trust funding our seminal study in 2016; the impact of which is outlined in a REF2021 case study .
Ongoing sector-specific studies, funded by the Living Wage Foundation focuses on the adoption of the real Living Wage in the social care sector and hospitality sector in London.
This work has formed the basis of the Living Wage Foundation toolkits, used to reach out and engage with employers.
Staff involved: Andrea Werner, Patrick Elf, Fergus Lyon
This cross-university research collaboration between the Centre for Sustainable Fashion (London College of Fashion) and Middlesex University focuses on the transformation of the fashion sector towards sustainability.
An Arts & Humanities Research Council (AHRC) funded project investigated the role of creative entrepreneurship and design in micro and small fashion enterprises (MSEs) as a driver for a more sustainable fashion industry.
The research analysed business models and practices in the fashion sector that foster a balance between environmental, social, cultural and economic considerations.
The research team produced a policy briefing and journal article outlining sustainable fashion businesses’ contribution to the circular economy.
Our recent collaborative project, ‘Governance for Tomorrow’ funded by Kering, focuses on new and alternative governance models for luxury fashion.
Staff Involved : Sepideh Parsa, Ian Roper (external cluster member), Chandima Hettiarachchi, Daniel Ozarow
Our research focuses on how large corporations govern and report their labour rights practices.
Funded by various external bodies, including the British Academy, we examine evolving regulatory landscapes and the challenges corporations face in upholding human rights for employees within their direct operations and supply chain workforce, domestically and internationally.
We address the governance mechanisms and processes that guide these reporting practices, exploring how effective oversight and accountability frameworks support ethical labour standards in corporate structures and relate to the public governance of labour rights at lower tiers of supply chains across diverse geographical locations.
Our findings have contributed to the reporting landscape internationally (e.g., the GRI) and domestically [e.g.
in relation to Local Authorities].
Staff involved: Siân Stephens, Lisa Schulte
This project builds on expertise in the more traditional extractive industry, to identify opportunities and challenges facing the renewable energy industry and their host communities.
Completed work includes research on the social license to operate in onshore wind farm communities in Scotland and South Africa, and participation in a British Academy funded project on the just transition in Denmark, England, Germany and South Africa.
Our current research is considering less high-profile sources of alternative energy, including an internally funded pilot study on energy-from-waste, and the impact of this on urban communities.
Postgraduate Research
We welcome PhD and DProf/DBA applications that fit with our cluster’s areas of expertise, including:
Current Research Students:
Prabhashana Gunathilake - CSR of SMEs in a post-crisis economy in the global south: A Study of Sri Lanka after the post-Covid localised economic and political crisis.
Knowledge Exchange and Teaching
Senior Leader Apprenticeship
Our cluster works with the Institute of Business Ethics, of which Middlesex University is an institutional supporter.
If you are interested in the work of the Business Ethics, Accountability and Governance Research Cluster or attending one of our regular meetings, please contact:
Twitter/X: @BEAGMdx

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-groups/cognitive-psychology-and-neuroscience-research-group:
The Cognitive Psychology and Neuroscience Research Group in the Department of Psychology researches lower- and higher-level cognition, as well as applied topics including:
Our research employs a wide range of methods from experimental psychology, cognitive neuroscience, psychophysics,  modelling and psychometrics.
Within this research group, we have the Jones,Silas & Ward Cognitive Neuroscience Lab and the Music Cognition and Communication Lab .
We have used some of our work to solve problems in the clinical domain, criminal justice system, and defence and security sector.
We use a range of equipment and have access to state of the art facilities dedicated to our research.
Our research includes the use of several high-end EEG systems (e.g.
128 electrode BioSemi, 64 electrode ActiChamp, Wireless LiveAmp, R-Nets, BioRadio) as well as both magnetic and electrical brain stimulation such as transcranial Alternating/Direct Current Stimulation (tACS/tDCS) and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS).
Moreover, we have several eye-trackers (Tobii) used in both adult and infant research.
Our psychophysiology laboratory has a PowerLab system.
Cognitive Psychology researchers at Middlesex have considerable resources available to them, including:
Dr Brunswick's research focuses on the relationship between language, literacy, musical and artistic ability in children and adults, with a particular focus on typical reading development and developmental dyslexia.
Her recent focus has been on creativity and self-perception in dyslexic readers, and how this influences subject studied at university and future career aspirations.
Dr Brunswick is chair of the Cognitive Psychology and Neuroscience Research Group and she is on the editorial boards of the journals Dyslexia and Learning Disabilities: A Contemporary Journal.
Read Dr Brunswick's full profile
Professor Dhami's research focuses on human judgement and decision-making, risk perception and risk taking, and understanding and communicating uncertainty.
She has examined these issues extensively in the criminal justice and defence and security domains.
Professor Dhami is co-editor of Judgement and Decision Making , the official journal of the Society for Judgement and Decision Making as well as the European Association for Decision Making.
Read Professor Dhami's full profile
Dr Jones' research interests include attention, prediction, action, and timing, and using cognitive neuroscience techniques to investigate how the brain and behaviour relate.
His recent focus has been on exploring how we select and attend to information presented to our senses.
In particular, how we process and attend to the sense of touch and how neural oscillations entrain to rhythmic events.
Dr Jones also co-leads the Jones, Silas & Ward lab .
Read Dr Jones' full profile
Dr Reynolds' research explores the development of emotions such as fear, anxiety and disgust during childhood, in particular the cognitive mechanisms and mediating factors associated with the development of these emotions.
Read Dr Reynolds' full profile
As an interdisciplinary researcher, Dr Russell publishes on diverse topics surrounding his main research interest on the evolution of expert cognition and social behaviour.
His research covers both humans and animals.
He has studied the social behaviour of chimpanzees and other great apes in captivity, and he has conducted laboratory-based studies on aspects of human cognition.
Read Dr Russell's full profile
Dr Silas' research is in the field of cognitive neuroscience.
His interests are varied but usually involved in understanding the interaction between neural mechanisms and cognitive processes involved in perception, cognition and social interactions.
He has expertise in using a variety of neuro-scientific methods including; EEG, TMS, tDCS and fMRI and has an interest in these methods in and among themselves.
He also has a specific interest in the biological and cognitive mechanisms involved in olfactory processing.Dr Silas co-leads the Jones, Silas & Ward Lab
Read Dr Silas's full profile
Dr Slabu's research interests revolve around trying to understand the precursors and outcomes of state authenticity, and the cognitive mechanisms underlying the impact of social power on people’s feelings, perceptions and actions.
Read Dr Slabu's full profile
Dr Ward's research focuses on the relationship between different expressions of memory and how they are affected by ageing.
She is also interested in incidental vs intentional memory, and how memory encoding and retrieval are affected by attention, depth of processing, context, rhythm, and prediction.
Dr Ward co-leads the Jones, Silas & Ward Lab .
Read Dr Ward's full profile
Dr Tamara Fedotiuk Researcher at Risk Fellow (MCCLab)
Tasneem Akbar PhD student working with Dr Jon Silas and Dr Alex Jones
We are always keen to attract PhD students, MSc by Research Students, and Research Assistants, so if you’d like an opportunity to come and work with us to gain some research experience, please email one of us directly according to our areas of expertise.
A British Academy of Management (BAM) funded project (Professor Mandeep Dhami, Co-I) that aimed to identify psychological mechanisms inducing or inhibiting scenario planning’s perspective-broadening effect, in order to develop interventions that maximise perspective-broadening and minimise perspective-narrowing.
A registered report using transcranial Alternating Current Stimulation (tACS).
This is an ongoing preregistered study, see more details .
Project funded by the BIAL Foundation (Emma Ward, Alexander Jones, Jon Silas).
As part of an ongoing programme of research on the effects of rhythm and temporal expectation on memory, this project investigated how the rhythmic presentation of stimuli affects memory formation using behavioural and EEG measures.
See resulting publications here and here .
Project funded by the Leverhulme Trust (Emma Ward).
This research aimed to understand age-related changes in explicit (e.g., recognition) and implicit (e.g., repetition priming) forms of memory, and clarify interactions with processing style and different demands involved at memory encoding and retrieval.
See resulting Registered Report in the Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology here
Project funded by the Society of Education and Music Psychology Research (Nicky Brunswick and Fabia Franco).
This ongoing research project is exploring the relationship between musicality and reading ability in professional ballet dancers and musicians.
Project funded by the Dunhill Medical Trust to study the effect of different types of music therapy on cognitive functions and biomarkers in people aged 65+, with an international multidisciplinary team including colleagues at Middlesex (Anthony Mangiacotti and Emma Ward, Psychology, and Eris Chinellato, Design Engineering and Maths).
Project funded by SEMPRE  to study mental health, cognitive function, parenting and social measures pre/post a short music therapy intervention In collaboration with colleagues at Middlesex Dr L Slabu (Psychology), Dr F Palermo (Music), Dr T Fedotiuk (Psychology), SWU Dr E Coombes and Buckingham New University, Dr T McGorrian.
Other collaborators: Dr A Mangiacotti and T Sobolewska (MCCLab).
If you wish to participate in any of our ongoing or upcoming research then please contact any member of staff directly.
Townsend, P.
H., Jones, A., Patel, A.
D., & Race, E.
Rhythmic temporal cues coordinate cross-frequency phase-amplitude coupling during memory encoding.
Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 36(10), 2100-2116.
Korko, M., Coulson, M., Jones, A., & de Mornay Davies, P.
The many facets of inhibitory control and their role in syntactic selection.
Language and Cognition, 16(2), 425-451.
Korko, M., Bose, A., Jones, A., Coulson, M., & de Mornay Davies, P.
Do words compete as we speak?
A systematic review of picture-word interference (PWI) studies investigating the nature of lexical selection.
Psychology of Language and Communication, 28(1), 261-322.
Brunswick, N., Wilson, N., Kruger, I., Chamberlain, R.
and McManus, I.
The prevalence of specific learning difficulties in higher education: a study of UK universities across 12 academic years.
Journal of Learning Disabilities
Ward, E.V.
Age differences in priming as a function of processing at encoding .
Consciousness and Cognition, 117, 103626.
Dhami, M., Belton, I., de Werd, P., Hadzhieva, V.
and Wicke, L.
Effects of task structure and confirmation bias in alternative hypotheses evaluation .
Cognitive Research: Principles and Implications.
9 (1).
Pina-Sanchez, J., Dhami, M.
and Gosling, J.
Estimating the influence of case characteristics: an application of Bayesian Model Averaging to sentencing shoplifting offences.
in: Fix, P.
and Montgomery, M.
(ed.) Research Handbook on Judicial Politics, Edward Elgar Publishing.
Dhami, M.
and Zhu, Y.
Possibilities for decision science in the metaverse .
DECISION.
Belton, I.
and Dhami, M.
The role of character-based personal mitigation in sentencing judgments .
Journal of Empirical Legal Studies.
Cockerton, T., Zhu, Y.
On conducting ethically-sound psychological science in the metaverse .
American Psychologist.
79 (1), pp.
92-108.
Holleman, G., Dhami, M.
K., Hooge, I.
C., & Hessels, R.
Representative design: A realistic alternative to (systematic) integrative design.
Commentary.
Behavioral and Brain Sciences.
47:e48.
doi:10.1017/S0140525X23002200
K., & Bechran, C.
(in press).
Sentencing in Multiple-Offence Cases: When Seeking Justice is too Cruel and Cognitively Demanding.
In R.
Wiener, & D.
Hansen (Eds.), Legal Judgment and the Motivation for Justice (Vol.
71).
Springer Nature.
Onkal, D., & Dhami, M.
K.
(forthcoming 2025).
Measuring the quality of scenarios generated using the Simple Scenarios technique.
In M.
M.
Crawford, & G.
Wright (Eds.), Improving and Enhancing Scenario Planning: Futures Thinking.
Edward Elgar publishing.
Grossman, Igor, Rotella, Amanda, Hutcherson, Cendri A., Sharpinskyi, Konstantyn, Varnum, Michael E.
W., Achter, Sebastian, Dhami, Mandeep K.
and Forecasting Collaborative, The (2023).
Insights into accuracy of social scientists' forecasts of societal change.
Nature Human Behaviour .
ISSN 2397-3374 (Published online first) (doi:10.1038/s41562-022-01517-1)
Hadar, Tamar, Politimou, Nina and Franco, Fabia (2023) Comparing the benefits of parent-infant flute and singing groups for communication and parenting: A feasibility study.
Psychology of Music , ISSN 0305-7356
Mangiacotti, Anthony, Cipriani, Giovanna, Ward, Emma V., Franco, Fabia and Biasutti, Michele (2023) Development and validation of the Music Cognitive Test: a music-based cognitive screening test.
Psychology of Music , 51 (2), pp.
373-394.
ISSN 0305-7356 (doi:10.1177/03057356221100851)
Mangiacotti, A., Ward, E.V., Franco, F., Biasutti, M.
Development and validation of the Music Cognitive Test: A music-based cognitive screening test.
Psychology of Music , 51, 373–394.
https://doi.org/10.1177/03057356221100851
Silas, J., Jones, A., Yarrow, K., & Anderson, W.
Spatial attention is not affected by alpha or beta transcranial alternating current stimulation: A registered report.
Cortex.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cortex.2023.03.011
Age and processing effects on perceptual and conceptual priming.
Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology , 76, 1-14.
https://doi.org/10.1177/17470218221090128
Brunswick, Nicola  and Bargary, Serena (2022) Self-concept, creativity and developmental dyslexia in university students: effects of age of assessment.
Dyslexia , 28 (3), pp.
293-308.
ISSN 1076-9242 (doi:10.1002/dys.1722)
Carta, S., Mangiacotti, A.M.A., Lopez Valdes, A., Reilly, R.B., Franco, F., Di Liberto, G.M.
The Impact of Temporal Synchronisation Imprecision on TRF Analyses.
Journal of Neuroscience Methods , https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jneumeth.2022.109765.
Derbyshire, James, Dhami, Mandeep K., Belton, Ian and Onkal, Dilek (2022).
The value of experiments in futures and foresight science as illustrated by the case of scenario planning.
Futures & Foresight Science , e146.
ISSN 2573-5152 (Published online first) (doi:10.1002/ffo2.146)
Dhami, Mandeep K.
Sentencing multiple- versus single-offence cases: does more crime mean less punishment?
British Journal of Criminology , 62 (1), pp.
55-72.
ISSN 0007-0955 (doi:10.1093/bjc/azab030)
and Mandel, David R.
(2022) Communicating uncertainty using words and numbers.
Trends in Cognitive Sciences , 26 (6) .
514-526.
ISSN 1364-6613 (doi:10.1016/j.tics.2022.03.002)
Dhami, Mandeep K., Wicke, Lars and Onkal, Dilek (2022).
Scenario generation and scenario quality using the cone of plausibility.
Futures , 142 , 102995.
ISSN 0016-3287 (doi:10.1016/j.futures.2022.102995)
and van den Brink, Yannick, N.
A multi-disciplinary and comparative approach to evaluating pre-trial detention decisions: towards evidence-based reform.
European Journal on Criminal Policy and Research, 28 (3) .
381-395.
ISSN 0928-1371  (doi:10.1007/s10610-022-09510-0)
Franco, Fabia, Suttora, Chiara, Spinelli, Maria, Kozar, Iryna and Fasolo, Mirco (2022).
Singing to infants matters: early singing interactions affect musical preferences and facilitate vocabulary building.
Journal of Child Language , 49 (3) .
552-577.
ISSN 0305-0009  (doi:10.1017/S0305000921000167)
Gana, Faiza L., Saadee, Fatemah and Russell, Yvan I.
Gender differences in childhood anxiety in relation to school performance.
North American Journal of Psychology , 24 (2) .
291-296.
ISSN 1527-7143
Jones, Alexander, Ward, Emma V., Csiszer, Enida and Szymczak, Joanna (2022).
Temporal expectation improves recognition memory for spatially attended objects.
Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience .
ISSN 0898-929X
Lundrigan, Samantha, Weir, Ruth, Newton, Andrew, Agudelo, Kelly and Dhami, Mandeep K.
Patterns and predictors of stranger rape locations.
European Journal on Criminal Policy and Research .
ISSN 0928-1371  (Published online first) (doi:10.1007/s10610-022-09535-5)
Mandel, David R., Irwin, Daniel, Dhami, Mandeep K.
and Budescu, David V.
Meta-informational cue inconsistency and judgment of information accuracy: spotlight on intelligence analysis.
Journal of Behavioral Decision Making , e2307.
ISSN 0894-3257 (Published online first) (doi:10.1002/bdm.2307)
Manville, Karen, Coulson, Mark, Mulqueen, Michele A., Neller, Kirsty, Searing, Caroline, Welland, Sarah and Reynolds, Gemma (2022).
Effects of canine-assisted intervention on the mental health of higher education students: a systematic review.
Human-Animal Interaction Bulletin , 13.
111-145.
ISSN 2333-522X  (doi:10.1079/hai.2022.0012)
Manville, Karen, Coulson, Mark and Reynolds, Gemma (2022).
Canine-assisted intervention reduces anxiety and stress in higher education students: a randomized controlled trial.
Society & Animals: Journal of Human-Animal Studies .
ISSN 1063-1119 (Published online first) (doi:10.1163/15685306-bja10101)
Murray, Jennifer, Dhami, Mandeep K., McClatchey, Kirstie, Weiss-Cohen, Leonardo and Ayton, Peter (2022).
Health, wellbeing, and social interaction: an international and demographic analysis of perceived life changes and the positives and negatives of the COVID-19 lockdown.
Europe’s Journal of Psycholog y .
ISSN 1841-0413
Pearce, Danielle, Gould, Rebecca L., Roughley, Matthew, Reynolds, Gemma, Ward, Emma V., Bhome, Rohan and Reeves, Suzanne J.
Paranoid and misidentification subtypes of psychosis in dementia.
Neuroscience and Biobehavioral Reviews , 134 , 104529.
ISSN 0149-7634  (doi:10.1016/j.neubiorev.2022.104529)
Russell, Yvan I.
Three problems of interdisciplinarity.
Avant: Trends in Interdisciplinary Studies , 13, pp.
1-19.
ISSN 2082-7598 (doi:10.26913/avant)
Weisz, Shayna R.
and Russell, Yvan I.
(2022) .
An observational study of race and gender homophily in nursery children.
North American Journal of Psychology , 24 (4) .
691-700.
ISSN 1527-7143  (Accepted/In press)
Wicke, Lars, Dhami, Mandeep K., Onkal, Dilek and Belton, Ian (2022).
Using scenarios to forecast outcomes of a refugee crisis.
International Journal of Forecasting , 38 (3) .
1175-1184.
ISSN 0169-2070 (doi:10.1016/j.ijforecast.2019.05.017)
K., & Dhami, M.
Cognitive biases and debiasing relevant to intelligence analysis.
Viale (Ed.), Handbook on Bounded Rationality .
Routledge.
Chifa, M., Hadar, T., Politimou, N., Reynolds, G., Franco, F.
The Soundscape of Neonatal Intensive Care: A Mixed-Methods Study of the Parents’ Experience.
Children , 8, 644, doi.org/10.3390/children8080644
Falk, S., Fasolo, M., Genovese, G., Romero-Lauro, E., & Franco, F.
Sing for me mama!
ID-singing facilitates phonetic discrimination in infancy.
Infancy , 26, 248-270.
Types of interference and their resolution in monolingual word production, Acta Psychologica , 214, 5, 103251.
Mandel, D.
R., Dhami, M.
K., Tran, S., & Irwin, D.
Arithmetic computation with probability words and numbers.
Journal of Behavioural Decision Making , 34(4), 593-608..
Mangiacotti, A.
M., Franco, F., Hsu, M.
H., & Biasutti, M.
Evaluating a continuing professional development course on cognitive functions for Music Therapists working in care homes.
The Arts in Psychotherapy , 74, 101800.
Papadimitriou, A., Smyth, C., Politimou.
N., Franco, F., Stewart, L.
The impact of the home musical environment on infants' language development.
Infant Behavior & Development , 65, 101651.
Reynolds, G., & Ewing, D.
Children’s sleepiness facilitates the effect of vicarious learning on the development of fear.
Journal of Experimental Child Psychology , 208, 105129.
Ward, E.V., Isac, A., Donnelley, M., Van Puyvelde, M., & Franco, F.
Memory improvement as a function of mood-matching music.
Acta Psychologica , 212, 103216.
K., Belton, I., Merrall, E.
C., McGrath, A., & Bird, S.
Criminal sentencing by preferred numbers.
Journal of Empirical Legal Studies , 17(1), 139-163.
https://doi.org/10.1111/jels.12246
K., & Mandel, D.
Words or numbers?
Communicating probability in intelligence analysis.
American Psychologist , 76(3), 549..
K., Lundrigan, S., & Thomas, S.
Police discretion in rape cases.
Journal of Police and Criminal Psychology , 35, 157-169.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11896-018-9299-4
Lundrigan, S., Dhami, M.
K., & Agudelo, K.
Factors predicting conviction in child stranger rape.
Child Abuse & Neglect , 101, 104-242.
DOI: 10.1016/j.chiabu.2019.104242
Politimou, N., Douglass-Kirk, P., Pearce, M., Stewart, L., & Franco, F.
Melodic expectations in 5-and 6-year-old children.
Journal of Experimental Child Psychology , 203, 105020.
Schaal, N.K., Politimou, N., Franco, F., Stewart, L., and Mullensiefen, D., (2020).
The German Music@Home: Validation of a questionnaire measuring at home musical exposure and interaction of young children.
PlosOne , 15(8): e0235923.
Ward, E.V., Berry, C.J., Shanks, D.R., Moller, P.L., & Czsiser, E.L.
Aging predicts decline in explicit and implicit memory: A lifespan study.
Psychological Science , 39, 1071–1083.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-groups/directing-and-dramaturgy:
The Directing and Dramaturgy research cluster contains members from both departments in the School of Media and Performing Arts, as well as colleagues from the School of Health and Education.
We are interested in the relationships between directing and dramaturgy, and how thinking associated with these activities may have implications and applications beyond the remit of Theatre, Film and Television with which they are associated.
For example, how may one talk about the dramaturgy of music?
How is the role of the director related to that of the choreographer?
Can dramaturgical approaches allow us to understand and potentially subvert our understanding of cultural and historical grand narratives?
And what do the hierarchical structures associated with directing have to say about democracy and personal agency?
Research activity in the group currently falls broadly under three areas:
The adaptation of poetry to stage, film, visual and musical forms, and the creative/adaptive processes undertaken by artists in these various disciplines.
The relationship between choreography, sign-languages and music, in the creation of work based on a theatrical text.
Ekphrasis as a method of adaptation.
The relocation of classical Greek plays into contemporary contexts.
Poetry and theatre translation, particularly German, Italian, Francophone and Lusophone theatres and contexts.
The process of adapting/translating/devising from text to stage, and the relationship between physicality and text.
Industry practices of commissioning and staging theatre translations, and the translation/production history of non-Anglophone plays in Britain.
The ability of shows to “travel”, and processes of domestication and foreignisation in performance.
How performance technique and practice affects compositional, dramaturgical and directorial approaches.
Drama writing for theatre and film, particularly Meta-Theatre; Post-war British Theatre Writers; and Extreme Theatre and Cinema.
Dramatic narrative structure and the relationship between form and content, including alternative story structures in scriptwriting.
Stretching dramatic form through multi-modal experimentation.
Narrative expectations in audiences and spectators; intuitive and analytical systems for apprehending the world and articulating it.
How theatre makers exploit such expectations.
The subversion and re-appropriation of female roles in writing and performance.
Working with people in applied settings, and generating work through working in Applied context.
The boundaries between research and appropriation, and the ethical implications of using verbatim/documentary material.
The Carnivalesque element in performance.
Representations of hunger in poetry and theatre.
The dramaturgy of solo work, and how the performer ‘manages’ her/his relationship with the audience.
Methodologically, we are keen to explore practice as research, as well as archival-historiographic practices and quantitative research.
For more information or to get in touch with us please email Mr Pedro de Senna and Ian Saville .

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-groups/development-of-intelligent-environments-research-group:
Our Research Group creates innovation related to Intelligent Environments, these are, systems consisting of a network of sensors and actuators deployed in physical spaces to the benefit of some sector of society.
Examples of a large scale such system is a Smart City, medium scale a Smart Campus, and smaller scale systems could be Smart Homes, Smart Classrooms, Smart Offices.
A more personalized system could also include wearable technology, including sensing and actuation devices a person carries.
Possible applications are to support health, general well-being, education, and other situations where citizens can benefit from context-aware technology.
Staff Profile: Prof Juan Carlos Augusto (Director) Email: J.Augusto@mdx.ac.uk
Lecturer in Computing Science
Senior Lecturer in Computing Science
Professor & DoP Computer Science & Multimedia Tech
Senior Lecturer_37
Almaas Ali
Stelios Kapetanakis
Zia Lallmahomed
Shahedur Rahman
Aditya Santokee
Liang Liu Emma Ward
Stephen Hall (2020-2027)
Babak Mohajer (2025-2031)
Chizurum Nwachukwu (2025-2026)
Mrinal Sharma (2024-2030)
Manos Stafylarakis (2024-2030)
We work at all levels from fundamental theoretical concepts, through development and validation of systems, to deployment of systems into society.
Our group include experts in design, development and deployment of systems in this area and we combine a number of methods and tools to create solutions co-created with stakeholders.
European Commission
EPSRC
Innovate UK
The Royal Society
British Academy
GLL
Students wishing to undertake a PhD or those wanting to gain research assistant experience within any of our research teams should contact the staff directly (contact details available on individual staff profiles) or via Prof.
Juan Carlos Augusto
If you would like to participate in any of our ongoing studies, please contact the research teams directly (contact details available on individual staff profiles) or via Prof.
For more information on our activities, output, and examples of our impact in society, please visit our Research Group webpage in the Department of Computer Science.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-groups/educational-and-developmental-psychology-research-group:
Our logo embodies the essence of what we stand for through the acronym GROW:
G – Guiding children and adolescents through developmental stages
R – Researching educational strategies and optimal learning outcomes
O – Observing and analysing social, cognitive, and emotional development from infancy through adulthood
W – Working towards advancing knowledge on developmental milestones
Each letter of GROW represents our commitment to fostering growth and understanding across the lifespan.
Explore how our diverse research drives progress and enriches lives.
Our research group delves into Developmental Psychology, exploring how and why individuals evolve over time from infancy through to aging.
We are passionate about understanding human growth across the lifespan and use innovative methodologies and research designs to investigate a broad spectrum of developmental topics.
In addition, we are actively involved in Educational Psychology, examining how developmental processes impact learning and educational outcomes.
Our research integrates insights from both developmental and educational psychology to enhance our understanding of effective teaching strategies and learning environments.
We are eager to welcome Research Assistants, MSc, and PhD students to join our team.
If you’re interested in contributing to our dynamic research, please reach out to Gemma Reynolds .
Understanding the development of fear, anxiety, and disgust in childhood: key mechanisms and influential mediating factors
Academic: Gemma Reynolds
Investigating the interplay between societal norms and how these shape gendered experiences of emotional labour, and their impact on the mental health, well-being, and quality of couple relationships among second-time working mothers in cohabiting heterosexual relationships.
Academic : Deborah Bailey-Rodriguez
Studying how music, language and cognition interact in both the development of early communication and in supporting healthy ageing
Academics: Anthony Mangiacotti and Fabia Franco.
Dedicated to the memory of Fabia, whose contributions to this work were invaluable.
Exploring the transition to second-time parenthood in couple relationships, using qualitative mixed methods.
Academic: Deborah Bailey-Rodriguez
The impacts of neglect and abuse on adolescent development in relation to clinical health and wellbeing, attachment insecurity and making positive relationships.
A focus on children in care.
Academic: Antonia Bifulco
Studying the relationship between language, literacy, musical and artistic ability in children and adults, with a focus on developmental dyslexia.
Academic: Nicola Brunswick
Exploring sound in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit.
Language and music in premature infants.
Academics: Maria Chifa with Fabia Franco and Gemma Reynolds
Home musical enrichment and its influence on early language, emotion and cognition.
Academic: Nina Politimou
Exploring music as an intrinsic link in the development of communication and social engagement in infancy.
Academic: Tatiana Sobolewska
Interests include breeding success measures, reproductive strategies and parental investment.
Also interested in interactions between breeding pairs and parent-chicks at the nest.
Academic: Kirsty Neller
Academic: Andrea Oskis
Exploring the impact of exposure to nature and green spaces on well-being and mental health.
Academics: Kirsty Neller, Gemma Reynolds
Academics: Gemma Reynolds , Karen Manville
Exploring the use of expressive writing as a brief intervention targeting mental health, academic stress and well-being in higher education students.
Academics: Gemma Reynolds , Deborah Bailey-Rodriguez
Examining the role of family dynamics, peers, and media portrayals in promotion inclusion for children with autism.
Academics: Shereen Mohamed (PhD student), Gemma Reynolds
Gemma and Deborah were awarded £3,954 from the strategic RKE/learning and teaching projects funding call for their project titled “Expressive Writing as a Brief Intervention Targeting Mental Health, Wellbeing and Academic Stress in MDX Students".
Deborah was awarded £1,000 from the European Society for Research into Adult Development’s (ESRAD) Small Research Grants Initiative for her project titled “The Never-Ending Shift: Second-time Working Mothers’ Emotional Labour in Heterosexual Couple Relationships”.
Gemma and Deborah were awarded £9825.48 from the BA/Leverhulme Small Research Grants Scheme for their project titled “Expressive Writing as a Brief Intervention Targeting Anxiety about Research Methods and Statistics in Higher Education Students”.
Andrea presented “Attachment: Food for Thought” at Age UK's Silver Sunday, an annual day of activities and events celebrating older people across the country.
If you would like to participate in any of our ongoing studies, please contact the research teams directly (details available in above staff profiles) or email Dr Gemma Reynolds or call 020 8411 6506.
Students wishing to undertake a PhD or those wanting to gain research assistant experience within any of our research teams, please contact our staff directly (details available on above staff profiles) or via Dr Gemma Reynolds .
Senior Lecturer in Psychology
Associate Lecturer in Psychology
Kirsty Neller Associate Lecturer in Psychology
Andrea Oskis Senior Lecturer in Psychology
Anth ony Mangiacotti Post-doctoral Researcher in Psychology
Pearl Young Research Assistant in Psychology
Fabia Franco (in memoriam) Associate Professor in Psychology

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-groups/human-rights-litigation-support-group-for-turkey:
Middlesex Law School is launching a project aimed at providing support to lawyers and civil society organisations on the front line of defending human rights in Turkey.
Professor Philip Leach (Professor of Human Rights Law and EHRAC Director ) will be leading a team of academics, human rights lawyers and researchers to create a support network and legal resources for Turkish litigators, as well as take strategic cases to international human rights courts to respond to the human rights crisis currently gripping Turkey.
Basic human rights are being systematically violated and protections progressively eroded as human rights defenders are increasingly unable to operate within Turkey.
The project aims to make use of strategic litigation as a tool to counter these trends, and to provide much-needed support to lawyers and civil society groups within Turkey.
The project will carry out a range of activities, supporting human rights lawyers and NGOs in Turkey in bringing cases before the European Court of Human Rights (and other international fora) and to make strategic interventions to expose, and seek to influence the deteriorating situation and the international response.
The project will work in partnership with bar associations, universities, local lawyer groups, national and international NGOs and victims’ associations, amongst others, to ensure a rich exchange of relevant knowledge, skills and resources to challenge violations by state officials.
The project aims to work in partnership with bar associations, universities, local lawyer groups, national and international NGOs, victims associations and other stakeholders ensuring the exchange of relevant knowledge and practices to challenge violations by state officials.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-groups/informing-professional-interventions-group:
Our work also includes critical investigations into the interrelationship between the state and major public sector professions and professional learning in the 21st century.
Work within the Informing Professional Interventions group covers four main areas; drugs and alcohol policy and services, the changing face of professionalism; gender & sexualities in social care and social work; and families and well-being.
Across all areas we subject health, social work, educational and criminal justice interventions and services to critical scrutiny, and investigate how they address social justice issues.
Our work also includes critical investigations into the interrelationship between the state and major public sector professions and of the changing face of professionalism and professional learning in the 21st century.
Our aim is to subject the relations between policy and public sector professional work across a number of different areas (health and social work and education) to critical examination.
Work is strongly interdisciplinary involving social policy, social work, nursing and healthcare, and education.
Many researchers in this group have professional backgrounds in these areas.
The first focus of investigation is into drugs and alcohol policy and services, lead by Betsy Thom and Rachel Herring.
Work in this area includes:
Their work makes theoretical contributions to: critical understandings of the factors driving systems change in service delivery and to theories of change as applied to professional behaviour: a critique of the ideological basis of the drive towards 'evidence' based policy and practice; the understanding of the emergence and evolution of concepts (e.g.
binge drinking) from a social constructivist perspective; the development of cross national perspectives on, and methods of, policy analysis.
A second focus includes investigations into the interrelationship between the state and major public sector professions and of the changing face of professionalism in the 21st century.
Pan-European approaches to policy and intervention analysis have also been undertaken.
This work is lead by Carmel Clancy, Rena Papadopoulos, Peter Ryan and Michael Traynor.
Work in this area focuses on:
A third focus is on gender and sexualities in social care & social work (Trish Hafford-Letchfield).
One area of particular policy focus has been lesbian and gay fostering.
This work deconstructs the discourses surrounding social work and anti-discriminatory and anti-oppressive practice.
The areas of theoretical development are particularly related to work with older people, adoption fostering and social work and religion.
A fourth area of work concerns 'families and well-being'.
McDonald has led the international Families And Schools Together intervention based on family stress and family systems theory.
The programme has been widely endorsed, partly due to the strength of evidence of its effectiveness, and achieved a high profile.
EU, Department of Health, major charity funders as well as local health and social care providers.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-groups/visual-and-creative-methods-research-group:
Our research reflects the long-established significance of visual forms of communication and expression, and visual methodologies as a participatory and co-produced form of research.
Visual and creative methods encompass a wide range of methodologies such as photo production and elicitation, videos, art, spatial interviews and emotion maps.
We use visual methods to engage with the material, embodied and social context of people’s experiences within qualitative research.
Our work includes:
We are social, developmental, and cultural psychologists influenced by many other disciplines, such as sociology, anthropology, and philosophy.
We are always open to collaborate with new researchers and students from any discipline with a passion (or curiosity!) for visual methods and are available to hold (University fee-based) seminars, workshops and CPD.
If you would like to find out more about the work we do, enquire about CPD opportunities, join the group or are interested in opportunities to work with us as a Research Assistant, Supervisor or MSc/MA or PhD student, please contact Erminia Colucci and Susan Hansen.
Prof Colucci specialises in Cultural and Global Mental Health, focusing on low-middle income countries, immigrants, and refugees.
Her research interests include human rights, suicide prevention, domestic violence, child neglect, spirituality, and first-hand accounts of mental illness.
She is passionate about using arts-based and visual methods, particularly photography and ethnographic film-documentary, in her research, teaching and advocacy activities.
Erminia is the founder of movie-ment.org.
Dr Hansen is an expert in qualitative methods such as ethnomethodology, discursive psychology, and conversation analysis.
She applies these methods to the analysis of visual data, focusing on everyday sense-making processes.
Dr Hansen's research interests include forensic topics like sexual consent negotiation, disputed diagnostic categories in psychology, and the psychology of sexualities.
She also explores communities' engagement with street art and graffiti, studying their material interactions and emotional responses.
Dr Bailey-Rodriguez specialises in attachment theory, family and couple relationships, as well as mental health and well-being.
Her research has focused on the use of multi-dimensional (such as pluralistic methods) and multi-modal (such as visual and creative methods) qualitative approaches.
Dr Bailey-Rodriguez’s research has incorporated the use of photo- and object-elicitation and emotion maps, and she is currently interested in expanding to digital technologies.
Dr Anderson is an interdisciplinary psychologist whose research focusses on interpersonal relationships, evaluation of mental health services, mental wellbeing and how drugs, especially MDMA, can alter mental health and relationships.
Her expertise lies in qualitative and visual methods, such as emotion maps, objects and relationship timelines, and she has a developing interest in mixed methods studies.
Jude has been involved with various research projects in both the health and education sectors over the last 18 years, using mixed methods approaches.
She has a particular interest in under-represented voices, trauma, suicidality and suicide prevention.
Jude actively promotes the value of the arts as a way of engaging and facilitating unspoken narratives and uses the arts and visual methods in her research and teaching.
Tilbe is an international PhD student and musician with interests in psychology, sociology, art, and philosophy.
Her research interests include existentialism, music therapy, autism, suicidal ideation and suicide, couple relationships, cultural impacts on mental health, psychodynamic approaches, and attachment theory.
Tilbe has used phenomenological research approaches and thematic analysis for her master’s dissertation, and she will be using visual methods and object elicitation in her PhD research.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-groups/prisons-research-group:
The Prisons Research Group (PRG) brings staff and students together to critically examine prison issues and debates in the context of ambitions for reform, transformative rehabilitation and supported reintegration on release.
The Prisons Research Group brings staff and students together to critically examine prison issues and intersecting justice system topics across policing and security, the criminal courts and sentencing, community-based penalties, probation and rehabilitation.
Our research is underpinned by principles of social justice, fairness and inclusivity with considerations of how these relate to criminal justice processes, policy and practice.
The PRG is made up of staff conducting rigorous independent research that is empirically driven and grounded in theoretical thought.
Research is conducted as funded and unfunded inquiry and as exploratory and evidence-based studies.
The PRG's research ideas and design are interdisciplinary, and strengthened by the faculty subjects of criminology, sociology, law, psychology, social policy and social work and mental health practice at Middlesex University.
We foster links with academics at other universities and colleagues working in the criminal justice and legal professions.
Staff have research experience in: prison drugs policy; young adults (18-25) in the criminal justice system, the criminal courts, sentencing other court decisions, the changing nature of probation practice and public protection; drugs market organisation; self-inflicted deaths in custody, drugs problem-solving courts, prison education and theories of alternatives to prison.
Members of the Prisons Research Group include academics from a range of disciplines at Middlesex University, including members from the Criminology, Sociology and Law departments.
Please click on individual links to see further staff information, including publications and research interests.
Dr Jenni Ward Associate Professor in Criminology
Professor Philip Leach Professor of Human Rights Law
Dr Karen Duke Professor in Criminology
Professor Anthony Goodman Professor in Criminology
Dr Lisa Marzano Professor in Psychology
Professor Mandeep Dhami Professor in Decision Psychology
Jeffrey DeMarco Senior Lecturer in Psychology
Mr.
James Kenworth Senior Lecturer in Media Narrative
PRG staff invite PhD and DProf.
applications in the areas of:
See individual staff profiles for areas of doctoral research supervision and contact staff through email addresses.
Current Doctoral Students:
Suzanne Morch-Lassen Is conscious connected breathwork a viable intervention for young adults aged 18-25 in the criminal justice system to promote well-being and aid rehabilitation?
Priya Bagolin: Reforming Provisional Charges under the Criminal Justice System of Mauritius: A Comparative Analysis the UK's PACE
Vicki Cardwell: Combining Policy, Practice and Research on Young Adults aged 18-25 in the Criminal Justice System to Effect Social Change.
Awarded doctoral degrees:
Mallika Saraswat:  Abolitionist Restorative Justice in the UK: Theory and Practice.
Matt Cracknell: Practitioner and Service User Experiences of Short-term Imprisonment and Resettlement under the Offender Rehabilitation Act 2014.
Eric Beckford: An Exploration into What Works in Effectively Engaging Young Adult Offenders in Probation Supervision: Practitioners and Probationers Perspectives.
Ildiko Cseri: Is Your Accent Guilty: Is your accent guilty?
The Experiences of Foreign Born Domestic Violence Victims within the English Criminal Justice System.
Di Li: Integrating Restorative Justice into the ICC’s Legal Framework  Possibility and Necessity.
Susan Hillyard: Are Circles of Support and Accountability (CoSA) an Effective Risk Management Tool for Young People with Learning Disabilities?
Sponsorship though RESPOND UK national charity.
The PRG is associated with the Middlesex MSc Criminology with Forensic Psychology taught Masters .
Current and former students are invited to attend and present their research at PRG seminars.
The PRG was part of the ‘Learning Together’ Network bringing students from universities and prison together to learn alongside each other in styles of co-creation, knowledge exchange and debate.
A Middlesex  partnership with HMP Wandsworth involved a 10 week criminology module delivered in collaboration with the prison education team ( View the evaluation report - Transformative Learning through University ).
‘Prisoners Abroad’ the charity supporting UK citizens imprisoned abroad and in resettlement following return is a partner of the PRG and have commissioned PRG research and disseminated findings.
The PRG was part of the ‘Learning Together’ network that brought university and prison students together in styles of co-created learning, knowledge exchange and debate.
A partnership with HMP Wandsworth involved three cohorts studying the  ‘Critical Issues in Criminal Justice’ module on the MSc Criminology with Forensic Psychology programme.
PRG seminars and events are held throughout the year and media coverage of research topics and activity.
Media
Podcasts Karen Duke, Drug Science Podcast on drugs and prisons with Professor David Nutt and Professor Susanne MacGregor, June 2024 https://youtu.be/e89nPhmBd10?si=Vi1964fJguPzXkho
‘New ‘young adult first’ probation hub should be implemented across UK’ -Middlesex press release accompanying Ministry of Justice  publication of Newham young adult probation Hub final evaluation report September 2024 https://www.mdx.ac.uk/news/2024/9/probation-hub-report
‘Prisons are nearly at full capacity but what can be done?’ Interview by  ITV news online with Jenni Ward 7 July 2024 https://www.itv.com/news/2024-07-10/uk-prisons-are-nearly-at-full-capacity-but-what-can-be-done
‘MDX playwright screens prison reform film to inmates on International Women’s Day’- Middlesex press release of James Kenworth’s play ‘Angel of the Prisons’ is based on the life and work of Elizabeth Fry 7 March 2023 https://www.mdx.ac.uk/news/2023/3/playwright-screens-prison-reform-film-to-inmates/
Events Prisoners Abroad & PRG online webinar (July 2022) ‘The Resettlement Experiences of People Supported by the Charity Prisoners Abroad’ launch of research report by Matt Cracknell & Jenni Ward with discussant Nick Hardwick Trustee of Prisoners Abroad.
2) in collaboration with Prisoners Abroad’.
https://www.prisonersabroad.org.uk/Handlers/Download.ashx?IDMF=1d6e80b9-b891-46c5-9b7f-e56e2609a467
PGR online webinar (July 2021) ‘Prisoners Abroad and the Pandemic’ by Charlotte Flinterman (resettlement manager) & Emma Rowland (senior case worker from the prison and family support team) at ‘Prisoners Abroad’.
The PRG holds roundtable seminars
Criminal Court Sentencing: Thinking about Reform’ 2020
The roundtable included topics on sentencing law and enduring severity, changes to probation and short sentenced prisoners under the ‘Transforming Rehabilitation’ framework, Joint Enterprise prosecutions and the benefits of ‘problem-solving’ approaches in youth justice.
Former prisons minister Rory Stewart gave the keynote speech.
Blogpost from the roundtable ‘Crime, Prisons and Social Injustice’ by Dr.
Anna Kotova https://annakotova5.wixsite.com/prisons
Speakers
Changing Prisons in Challenging Times: Revisited’ 2017
Speakers discussed the prisons reform strategy in the 2016 Prison Safety and Reform White Paper, the Joint Committee on Human Rights inquiry into mental health and deaths in custody, problems with risk assessment and Imprisonment for Public Protection (IPP) sentences, the ‘Learning Together’ prisons/university education partnerships and closure of Holloway woman’s prison.
Changing Prisons in Challenging Times 2015
This seminar discussed challenges within the prison system, impacts on prison officers, the role of rehabilitation in prison, findings from the independent panel on deaths in custody, human rights of people in prison and the needs of alcohol dependent people entering prison custody.
Listen to some of our previous talks on soundcloud .
The best way to contact the PRG is through the convenor Dr.
Jenni Ward - j.r.ward@mdx.ac.uk
The Twitter/X handle of the PRG is @mdx_prg
2022 Co-Investigator (Jenni Ward) Evaluation of the Newham Young Adult Transitions Probation Hub pilot (with Jake Phillips Sheffield Hallam University) funded by Ministry of Justice, UK.
2021 Co-Investigators (Jenni Ward & Matt Cracknell) Resettlement Experiences of People Supported by the Charity ‘Prisoners Abroad’ (with Matt Cracknell) funded by Prisoners Abroad, UK.
The role of character-based personal mitigation in sentencing judgments.
https://doi.org/10.1111/jels.12376 https://repository.mdx.ac.uk/item/9v794
Responding to ‘wicked problems’: policy and governance on drug-related deaths in English and Welsh prisons, 2015-2021.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.drugpo.2024.104358 https://repository.mdx.ac.uk/item/zvy9w
Phillips, J., Ward, J., Albertson, K., Cracknell, M., Duke, K., Fowler, A.
and Riley, L.
Process evaluation of the Newham Y2A Hub: evaluating the implementation of a specialist youth to adulthood transitions service in probation.
UK Ministry of Justice.
https://repository.mdx.ac.uk/item/198q26
Ward, J.
and Kawalek, A.
The return of drugs courts: some important considerations International Journal of Drug Policy.
127.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.drugpo.2024.104418 https://repository.mdx.ac.uk/item/11vwz8
Porteous, D.
and Goodman, A.
(2023), "“If I had had a me”: the benefits and challenges of involving children with lived experience in youth justice services", Safer Communities, 22, 3, 172-185.
https://doi.org/10.1108/SC-10-2022-0043
(in press) The Role of Character-based Personal Mitigation in Sentencing Judgements.
Duke, K., Gleeson, H., MacGregor, S & Thom, B.
(2023) The Risk Matrix: Drug‐related Deaths in Prisons in England and Wales, 2015–2020.
and Cracknell, M.
(2023) ‘Prisoners Abroad Resettlement Service: Housing Security and Lessons for Probation.
Probation Quarterly , Issue 27, 21-25.
Goodman, A.
and Porteous, D.
(2022) An Evaluation of Youth Ink: Interim Report for Youth Justice Board.
UK: Middlesex University.
https://yjresourcehub.uk/wp-content/uploads/media/Youth_Ink_Interim_Evaluation_Child_First_Pathfinder_2022.pdf
(2022) Exploring the motivations and social organisation of intoxication in prison settings, In: Hunt, G., Antin, T.
and Asmussen Frank, V., (eds) Routledge Handbook of Intoxicants and Intoxication.
London: Routledge.
Thom, B.
(2022) Exchanging Prevention Practices on Polydrug Use among Youth in Criminal Justice Systems.
In: Hantrais, L.
(ed.) How to manage international multi-disciplinary research projects.
Edward Elgar Publishing.
& van den Brink, Y.
A (2022) A multi-disciplinary and Comparative Approach to Evaluating Pre-trial Detention Decisions: Towards Evidence-based Reform.
European Journal on Criminal Policy and Research, 28, 381-395.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10610-022-09510-0
(2022) ‘Keeping a lid on it’: Exploring ‘problematisations’ of prescribed medication in prisons in the UK, International Journal of Drug Policy 100, 103515.
Duke, K., Gleeson, H., Dabrowska, K., Dich Herold, M., Ronaldo, S.
& Thom, B.
(2022) Building Cultures of Participation: Involving Young People in Contact with the Criminal Justice System in the Development of Drug Interventions in the United Kingdom, Denmark, Italy and Poland.
Youth Justice 23, 1, 97-116.
Basak, C.
& Leach, P.
(2022) The Fate of Osman Kavala.
Politico https://www.politico.eu/article/human-rights-the-fate-of-osman-kavala-matters-europen-court-echr-turkey/
Ruggiero, V.
(2022) ‘Convicts, Crime and Evil’ in Ruggiero, V.
(Ed.) Critical Criminology Today , London and New York: Routledge.
(2022) ‘Crime, Punishment and Utopia’ in Ruggiero, V.
(2022) Contemporary Issues in Criminal Procedure, in E.
Johnston (Ed.) Challenges in Criminal Justice .
& Spence, R.
(2022) Criminal Court Sentencing: The Case for Specialist Young Adult Courts.
British Journal of Criminology, The British Journal of Criminology , 63, 4, 1041–1057 https://doi.org/10.1093/bjc/azac076
Cracknell, M.
and Ward, J.
(2022) The Resettlement Experiences of People Supported by the Charity Prisoners Abroad.
London: Prisoners Abroad.
Dhami, K.
(2022) Sentencing Multiple- versus Single-offence Cases: Does More Crime mean less Punishment?British Journal of Criminology , 62, 1, 55-72.
Duke, K., Gleeson, H., Dabrowska, K., Herold, M., and Rolando, S.
(2021) The engagement of young people in drug interventions in coercive contexts: findings from a cross-national European study, Drugs: education, prevention and policy, 28, 1, 26-35.
Goodman, A and Calestani, M.
(2022) ‘Supporting Girls and Young Women Victims of Sexual Harassment in Schools: “Me and You and Everyone we Know.”  Safer Communities 21, 1, 1-18.
Rolando, S., Asmussen Frank,V., Beccaria, F., Duke, K., Graf, N., Kahlert, R., and Pisarska, A.
“I like money, I like many things”.
The relationship between drugs and crime from the perspective of young people in contact with criminal justice systems, Drugs: education, prevention and policy, 28, 1, 7-16.
(2021) Trajectories of drug involvement among young people in contact with criminal justice systems in six European countries.
In: Chatwin, C., Potter, G., and Werse.
B.
(eds).
Who?
Variation and distinction in the European drugs landscape.
Pabst Publishers.
127-145.
Moazen, B., Dolan, K., Moghaddam, S., Lotfizadeh, M., Duke, K., Neuhann, F., Stover, H.
(2020) Availability, Accessibility and Coverage of Needle and Syringe Programs in Prisons in the European Union: A Multi-stage Scoping Review.
Epidemiologic Reviews, 42 1, 19-26.
https://doi.org/10.1093/epirev/mxaa003
Duke, K., Thom, B.
and Gleeson, H.
(2020) ‘Framing ‘drug prevention’ for young people in touch with the criminal justice system: the views from practitioners and professionals working in the field in England’, Journal of Youth Studies, 23, 4, 511-529.
Liddar, A., MacNaboe, L.
& DeMarco, J.
Security in faith communities: Safety and protection.
Report prepared for the Hate Crime Team, Home Office.
Dhami, Mandeep K., Weiss-Cohen, Leonardo and Ayton, Peter (2020) Are people experiencing the ‘pains of imprisonment’ during the Covid-19 lockdown?
Frontiers in Psychology, section Personality and Social Psychology, 11 , 578430.
ISSN 1664-1078 [Article] (doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2020.578430 )
, Goodman-Delahunty, Jane,  Martschuk, Natalie  , Cheung, Sang and Belton, Ian (2020) Disengaging and rehabilitating high-value detainees: a small scale qualitative study.
Journal for Deradicalization  (22) .
66-96.
[Article]
Duke, Karen L.
(2020) Producing the 'Problem' of New Psychoactive Substances (NPS) in English prisons.
International Journal of Drug Policy  , 80, 1-8.
and Kolind, Torsten (2020) Framing and Reframing Drug ‘Problems’ in Prison spaces and populations.
In: Risk and substance use: framing dangerous people and dangerous places.
Eds.
MacGregor, B.
Thom Routledge Studies in the Sociology of Health and Illness.
Moazen, Babak, Dolan, Kate , Moghaddam, Sahar Saeedi, Lotfizadeh, Masoud , Duke, Karen L., Neuhann, Florian,  Stöver, Heino and Jahn, Albrecht (2020) Availability, Accessibility and Coverage of Needle and Syringe Programs in Prisons in the European Union: A Multi-stage Scoping Review.
(Accepted/In press)
Guest, Carly and Seoighe, Rachel (2020) Familiarity and Strangeness: Seeing Everyday Practices of Punishment and Resistance in Holloway Prison.
Punishment and Society, 22, 3, 353-375.
Powell, Claire, Ciclitira, Karen and Marzano, Lisa (2020) ‘Overwhelmed and powerless’: Staff perspectives on mother-infant separations in English prisons.
Journal of Criminal Psychology.
ISSN 2009-3829 [Article] (Published online first) (doi: 10.1108/JCP-04-2020-0017 ).
Gleeson, H., Duke, K.
(2019) Challenges to providing culturally sensitive drug interventions for Black and Asian minority ethnic (BAME) groups within the youth justice system in the UK, Drugs and Alcohol Today,19, 3, 172-81.
Gray, Natalie, Ward, Jennifer and Fogarty, Jenny (2019) Transformative learning through university and prison partnerships: reflections from ‘Learning Together’ pedagogical practice.
Journal of Prison Education and Reentry, 6 (1) .
7-24.
Ward, Jennifer (2019) Problem-solving Criminal Justice: Developments in England and Wales.
Utrecht Law Review, 14, 3, 7-18.
Ruggiero, Vincenzo (2018)  No Prison: Old and New Challenges.
In: No Prison.
Pavarini and L.
Ferrai (Eds.) EG Press.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-groups/healthy-ageing-research--practice-group:
The Ageing Research & Practice Group brings together cross-faculty staff at Middlesex with varied interests and expertise to address broad issues surrounding ageing.
Making use of a range of methodologies and approaches we aim to provide a significant contribution to understanding and supporting healthy ageing: what factors contribute to positive outcomes in later life, how can we support optimal ageing, how can we assist individuals to live independently for longer, social and economic issues surrounding ageing, communication, inclusivity and ageing, and more.
Collectively, we bring expertise from psychology, neuroscience, sociology, computer science, sport science, nursing, arts, law, consumer behaviour and business.
We are keen to have Research Assistants, MSc and/or PhD students working with us.
Please get in touch if interested.
Dr Anna Charalambidou and Dr Josephine Machon are exploring Activity, Connectivity and Adventure: Fun Palaces as Intergenerational Sites of Healthy and Active Ageing.
Dr Fabia Franco, Dr Anthony Mangiacotti, Dr Emma Ward, Prof Martin Van Puyvelde (University of Brussels), Prof Gianfranco Gabai (University of Padova), Dr Michele Biasutti (University  of Padova), Dr Mind Hung Hsu (Methodist Homes Association), & Dr Giovanni Di Liberto (Di Liberato Lab).
MusiCare .
Funded by the Dunhill Medical Trust, this project assesses the impact of music therapy on older adults’ cognition and well-being.
Dr Laura Wilson, Dr Luke Oates, & Dr Emma Ward.
Short Term Heat Acclimation in an Ageing Population.
The aim of this project is to investigate the effectiveness of a STHA strategy in older individuals.
The research will shed light on the effectiveness of the strategy, and inform policy for older and/or vulnerable individuals to protect them against the detrimental impacts of extreme heat during heatwaves.
Prof George Dafoulas, Dr Akiko Ueno & Prof Charles Dennis Digital Poverty in the UK , British Academy Funded project.
Draws attention to levels of digital exclusion in the UK, which increase almost exponentially with age.
Dr Emma Ward.
EPS award working with the Jones, Silas, and Ward Lab to investigate the effects of temporal expectation on memory in aging using EEG.
Leverhulme Trust Research Fellowship to examine lifespan changes in explicit and implicit memory.
The project looked at whether processing moderates age effects on these forms of memory.
Ward, E.V., Berry, C.J., Shanks, D.R., Moller, P.L., Czsiser, E.L.
Psychological Science, 39, 1071–1083 .
https://doi.org/10.1177/0956797620927648
Sutton, J.L., Gould, R.L., Coulson, M.C., Ward, E.V., Butler, A.M., Smith, M., Lavell, G., Rosa, A., Langridge, M., & Howard, R.J.
(2019).
Multi-component frailty assessment tools for older people with functional mental illness: A systematic review.
Journal of the American Geriatrics Society, 67, 1085-1095.
https://doi.org/10.1111/jgs.15710
Tunvirachaisakul, C., Gould, R.L., Coulson, M.C., Ward, E.V., Reynolds, G.
Gathercole, R.L., Grocott, H., Supasitthumrong, T., Tunvirachaisakul, A., Kimona, K.
Howard, R.L.
Predictors of treatment outcome in depression in later life: A systematic review and meta-analysis.
Journal of Affective Disorders, 227, 164-182.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jad.2017.10.008
Ward, E.V., & Dhami, M.K.
(2016).
The aging decision-maker: Advances in understanding the impact of cognitive change on decision-making.
Frontiers in Cognition, 7, 1622.
https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2016.01622
Ward, E.V., & Berry, C.J., & Shanks, D.R.
(2013).
An effect of age on implicit memory that is not due to explicit contamination: Implications for single and multiple-systems theories.
Psychology and Aging, 28 , 429-442.
https://doi.org/10.1037/a0031888
Foster JHand Thom B.(2022)Older Drinkers: Alcohol consumption, drinking context and“successful ageing.”In Alcohol, Age, Generation and the Life Course.
Thurnell- Reid T andFenton L (eds), Palgrave MacMillan.
(2020) Community Based Interventions for Problematic Substance Use in Later Life: A Systematic Review of Evaluated Studies and Their Outcomes International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health 17, 7994; doi:10.3390/ijerph17217994 <
Christou, A.
(2018) Ageing Across Austere Space and Time: Critical Insights on Social Crises, International Network for Critical Gerontology , blog: https://criticalgerontology.com/ageing-austere-critical-insights/
(2016) Ageing masculinities and the nation: Disrupting boundaries of sexualities, mobilities and identities, Gender, Place and Culture: A Journal of Feminist Geography, DOI:10.1080/0966369X.2015.1058760
(2016) “Ageing 'Phantasmagorically' in Exile: The Resilience of Unbearable and Unattainable Homelands in the Jewish and Cuban Imagination”, in Walsh, K.
and Nare, L.
(eds.) Re-thinking Home: Transnational Migration and Older Age , Routledge.
(2013) "Ageing in the ancestral homeland: ethnobiographical reflections on return migration in later life", in Percival, J.
(ed.) Return Migration in Later Life , Policy Press, pp.
179-193.
Fatima S., Augusto J.C., Moseley R., Urbonas P., Elliott A., Payne N.
(2023) Applying Motivational Techniques for User Adherence to adopt a Healthy Lifestyle in a Gamified Application.
Entertainment Computing .
Springer.
Ali M., Augusto J.C., Windridge D., and Ward E.
(2023) A User-guided Personalization Methodology to Facilitate New Smart Home Occupancy.
Universal Access in the Information Society .
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10209-022-00883-x
Gimenez Manuel J.G., Augusto J.C., Stewart J.
(2022) AnAbEL: Towards Empowering people living with dementia in Ambient Assisted Living.
Universal Access in the Information Society, 21 :457–476.
Sakanga N., Augusto J.C., Brodie L., and Marzano L.
(2022) Quality Traceability for User-centric Context-aware Systems in Intelligent Environments.
Proceedings of Internet of Healthcare Things Workshop, co-located with IEEE 8th World Forum on Internet of Things 26th of October − 11th of November 2022, Yokohama, Japan.
Augusto J.C., Kramer D., Alegre U., Covaci A.
and Santokhee A.
(2017) The User-centred Intelligent Environments Development Process as a Guide to Co-create Smart Technology for People with Special Needs.
Universal Access in the Information Society, 17(1) , 115-130.
Charalambidou, A.
The construction of culinary expert through recipe tellings among older Greek Cypriot women.
In: T.
Pavlidou (ed) Greek Language and Conversational Interaction: Studies in spoken discourse .
Thessaloniki: AUT.
217-232.
[in Greek]
Language and age identities among older Greek Cypriot women.
Reading, interpreting, experiencing: Special Issue of Modern Greek Studies Journal (edited by M.
Tsianikas, G.
Couvalis and M.
Palaktsoglou), 112-124.
http://hdl.handle.net/2328/35486
Charalambidou, A.and A.
Georgakopoulou (2014).‘I will make you widows laugh’: A narrative-analytic perspective on conversational joke telling and tellers in a group of older Greek Cypriot women.
Christodoulidou-Parlali (ed.), AnalysingGreek Talk-in-interaction .
Newcastle: Cambridge Scholars Publishing.
130-156.
Georgakopoulou, A.
and A.
Charalambidou(2011).
Doing age and ageing: language, discourse and social interaction.
In K.
Aijmer and G.
Andersen (eds.), Pragmatics of Society .
Berlin: Mouton – de Gruyter, 29-51.
Constructions of age identities in everyday conversations through painful self-disclosures.
Dimadis (ed.), Identities in the Greek world (form 1204 to the present day) , vol.
Athens: European Society of Modern Greek Studies, 85-100.
Elliott, A., Evans, T., Cohen, R., Watt, J., & Volante, M.
‘Was physical education as bad as people remember it?
A qualitative thematic review’.
THE SKY-International Journal of Physical Education and Sports Sciences (IJPESS) , 18-31.
Elliott, A., & Evans, T.
(2022) ‘Is the answer to improved health hiding in plain sight?’.
Integrated Care Journal .
Published Online
Ali, S.B., & Elliott, A.
‘Perceived Barriers to Physical Activity in Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (T2DM) Patients during COVID-19 Pandemic in the UAE’.
J Adv Sport Phys Edu, 4(11): 225-233.
Tijana Purenović-Ivanović, Raša Dejanović, Danijela Živković, Saša Bubanj, Andela Đošić and Anne Elliott (2021).
The effect of resistance training on bone mineral density in postmenopausal women.
Internati onal Network of Sport and Health Science 17th Spor t Specific Convention 1-3 Dec 2021, Budapest, Hungary
Dafoulas, G., Ueno, A.
and Dennis, C.
(2022) ‘Digital poverty in the UK: Analysis of Secondary Data’.
London: The British Academy.
https://www.thebritishacademy.ac.uk/publications/digital-poverty-in-the-uk-analysis-of-secondary-data/ .
Vecchi, M., Elf, P., Ueno, A., Dilmperi, A., Dennis, C.
and Devereux, L.
(2022) ‘ Shall We Dance?
Dance, Well-Being and Productivity Performance during COVID-19: A Three-Country Study ’, Journal of International Marketing , 1069031X221079609.
Papagiannidis, S., Bourlakis, M., Alamanos, E., & Dennis, C.
(2017).
Preferences of smart shopping channels and their impact on perceived wellbeing and social inclusion .
Computers in Human Behavior , 77, 396–405.
Dennis, C., Alamanos, E., Papagiannidis, S., & Bourlakis, M.
Does social exclusion influence multiple channel use?
The interconnections with community, happiness, and well-being .
Journal of Business Research , 69(3), 1061–1070.
Students wishing to embark on a PhD or wanting to gain research experience within our topic areas should contact the staff directly (contact details available on individual staff profiles) or via Dr Emma Ward.
If you would like to participate in any our ongoing research, please contact the research teams directly (contact details available on individual staff profiles).
Prof Betsy Thom PhD Professor
Dr Lisa Marzano Theme Director/ Professor in Psychology
Dr Lucy Irving Senior Lecturer in Psychology
Dr Anne Elliott Senior Lecturer in LSI
Prof Charles Dennis PhD Professor of Consumer Behaviour
Dr Anasetasia Christou PhD Professor of Sociology and Social Justice
Dr Anna Charalambidou Director of Media Programmes
Prof Juan Carlos Augusto Professor of Computer Science
Dr Mark Springett
Dr Laura Wilson
Dr Moja Kljakovic
Dr Chrysi Leliopoulou
Dr Shing-Wan Chang
Sue McGowan
Dr Fabia Franco
Dr Anthony Mangiacotti
Dr Josephine Machon
Dr Chris Bannerman

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-groups/secondary-trauma-research:
Secondary traumatic stress (STS) is characterised by a set of reactions, such as feelings of isolation, dissociation and sleep disturbance, in response to working with traumatic material.
The project uses an iterative approach to develop a model of content moderator needs and an intervention to support and build upon areas of resilience.
Investigating the impact of online child sexual abuse material on content moderators
Get In touch
We have been awarded funding from the End Violence Fund to investigate the impact of online child sexual abuse material on content moderators – individuals who are charged with constantly surveilling and removing traumatic images and videos of child sexual abuse.
We will explore and quantify the issues facing content moderators and identify coping strategies currently used by content moderators and highlight what works – and does not work.
Results of the study will be used to develop a pilot intervention to support and protect the mental health of content moderators.
More than 100,000 people worldwide are content moderators.
The job involves analysing material that has been flagged as offensive or harmful and deciding whether it should be removed from the platform it was uploaded to or not.
The very nature of the job means content moderators are at risk of being exposed to traumagenic content, including child sexual abuse material (CSAM).
Content moderation can be a demanding role, potentially leading to high levels of burn out, secondary trauma and mental health difficulties.
These negative outcomes can decrease work standards, thus failing the people they seek to protect.
Despite this, primary research on the psychological effects of content moderation in terms of wellbeing, productivity and vulnerability to negative outcomes is lacking.
As such, content moderators who deal with large amounts of accounts or images of abuse would be expected to be at increased risk of developing STS.
Indeed, repeated, prolonged exposure to specific content, coupled with limited workplace support and counselling, can significantly impair the psychological well-being of moderators.
Additionally, there is work suggesting that secondary traumatic stress is often comorbid with anxiety and depression.
Therefore, it is likely repeated exposure will increase moderators’ risk of developing anxiety, depression and stress disorders.
If left untreated, this can lead to absenteeism, lower quality of life, burnout, and work dissatisfaction.
Alongside continued exposure to traumagenic content, moderators can face other pressures such as needing to hit high accuracy and throughput targets.
This can exacerbate psychological discomfort and can cause burnout.
However, despite this there is a lack of primary research into the psychological impacts on content moderators and what can be put in place to support them.
There are four main stages:
STAGE 1 ​
Theory of change workshop will be conducted to develop a detailed set of intermediate and final outcomes that stakeholders share as relevant in the support and wellbeing of content moderators​
STAGE 2 ​
In depth interviews will be carried out with individuals who have previously or currently work with CSAM as part of their job in content moderation or parallel professions​.
Interviews will aim to capture the complex experiences of working with CSAM, its impact, how these are mitigated individually and by the organisation, as well as positive and negative elements of the role.
​
STAGE 3 ​
Anonymous surveys will be distributed to current content moderators on the potential adverse effects of their role, coping strategies employed and organisational sources of support and stress ​
STAGE 4 ​
Based on the findings from the previous stages an online support package will be developed that is specifically tailored to address areas of stress and build on areas of resilience that are specific to content moderators and their role
A small sub-sample of content moderators will be invited to pilot the support package and complete surveys pre- and post- support package so we can assess its efficacy
Participants will be given the ability to opt in to a short interview about their experience of using the intervention​ so we can get feedback about the user experience, suitability and potential improvements.
Many people are affected by their work, not just jobs that are traditionally considered 'high stress'.
Chronic stress and trauma at work is widespread and can impact workers in any industry for a number of reasons.
As part of our project we are looking at the types of stress that might be involved in being a content moderator and what type of support could be useful.
Coping briefing: Coping strategies for content moderators
The study is led by Dr Jeffrey DeMarco and Dr Elena Martellozzo.
Online child sexual abuse material is highly damaging to children, yet little primary research exists in relation to its impact on content moderators.
Their job involves the removal of online child sexual abuse material as well as other disturbing content, and this constant surveillance of traumatic images can affect their wellbeing, mental health and quality of life, as well as their work competence, satisfaction and productivity.
Strategies are needed to help them cope with such work.
Our project uses an interative approach and mixed methodology to identify the impacts of the job on content moderators, as well as individual coping strategies and organisational sources of stress and support in order to develop and pilot an intervention designed specifically for them.
The intervention toolkit will focus on tackling identified concerns and strengthening areas of resilience.
Prof Antonia Bifulco Professor in Psychology
Mr Jeffrey DeMarco Senior Lecturer in Psychology
Ms Paula Bradbury Lecturer in Policing
Miss Elena Martellozzo DoP in Policing/Professor of Criminology

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-groups/greenfin-research:
Sustainable financial growth for cleantech and nature positive
Access to finance for start-ups and SMEs, particularly those who are involved in the cleantech and nature positive biodiversity nature-tech sectors is increasing.
This is due to the emphasis on environmental protection and renewal within UN Sustainable Development Goals and the drive to meet the twin aims of Climate and Biodiversity for a more sustainable society and planet.
Established within Middlesex University (MU) Business School, Green Fin brings together a powerful coalition of leading researchers from business, management and finance, biodiversity and natural sciences and computer sciences technology disciplines.
Our network is broadened by inter-disciplinary ties to entrepreneurial finance and sustainability across MDX Faculties.
Our goal is to combine high-quality research and develop cutting edge insights to enhance understanding of green and sustainable financing processes and their impacts.
Our work includes major contributions to the ESRC-funded Centre for Understanding Sustainable Prosperity ( CUSP ).
We have undertaken multiple government evaluations for UK and international Government Departments, including the UK Department for Business and Trade, Republic of Ireland Department for Enterprise, Trade and Employment, Innovate UK and British Business Bank.
We have also delivered high-level grant reports, written high impact journal articles and steered the publication of major journal special issues.
GreenFin welcomes applications for PhD and DProf study on any aspect of green finance and sustainable financing – particularly in relation to sustainable financial growth and access to finance for start-ups and SMEs involved in the cleantech and nature positive biodiversity nature-tech sectors.
Business and Enterprise for Sustainable Prosperity as part of MSc Sustainable & Environmental Management.
Central to the work of GreenFin is close collaboration with a wide range of partner organisations to generate impactful research.
Forthcoming events 2025
Recent publications include:
Professor Robyn Owen Professor of Entrepreneurial Finance
Dr Sylvia Gottschalk Senior Lecturer in Economics
Professor George Dafoulas Professor of Information Systems & Business Computing
Dr Amy Burnett Research Fellow in Sustainable & Inclusive Enterprise
Dr Patrick Elf Associate Professor in Sustainable Business
Dr Ignatius Ekanem Senior Lecturer in Business and Management
Dougal Fleming Consultant at Green Business Team
Shan Wang Senior Lecturer
Dr Joanna Kitching
Pamela Macaulay Administrator
Stay connected with us on X.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-groups/sustainable-development-research-cluster:
The Sustainable Development Research Cluster (SDRC) consists of academics from across all faculties that are dedicated to fostering the essential societal transformation towards sustainability.
We organise events to bring together sustainability-related research from across Middlesex University’s four faculties and from external partners and interested stakeholders.
Our goal is to offer a dynamic environment that promotes and enhances a proactive research culture, supporting collaborations that build on synergies between research interests, co-create research projects and support our ability to attract research funding.
The SDRC draws on the diverse sustainability expertise across Middlesex University, on:
The project, realised in collaboration with the London Development Trust, aimed to improve awareness and understanding of the social impact of urban water features and green space in the context of housing regeneration, and to provide usable indicators and guidance that support the integration of this knowledge into community stewardship strategies.
It builds on prior funding from SNN+ and Newton Funding (UKRI) and contribute do the REF 2021 case study benefits from knowledge exchange activities that received £3000 from the Middlesex University’s HEI funds for knowledge exchange and collated the findings from previous RCUK’s Newton Fund and Sustainable Societies Network+ funded projects dating back to 2015.
Staff contact: Dr Meri Juntti
Project outputs can be viewed here:
Long-standing partnership with IKEA UK & Ireland to support their sustainable living strategy supporting thousands of participants in their effort to live more sustainable lifestyles at home.
Staff contact: Dr Patrick Elf
This project aimed to engage students and industry professionals in co-creating curricula that embeds sustainability, UNSDGs and Climate Framework.
It received the internal Enhancing Education Award of £5000.
The project has been presented in Advance HE Sustainability Symposium 2023, MDX Teaching and Learning Conference 2023 and (forthcoming 2025 paper).
Staff contact: Dr Homeira Shayesteh
This project is a collaborative effort with IESVE towards achieving a sustainable and energy-efficient future for one of Middlesex University Campus Buildings.
It explores strategic retrofitting options that promise not only to reduce the building’s carbon emissions but also significantly cut down on energy consumption.
Focusing on the importance of data, it encapsulates the efforts of the team in leveraging advanced digital twin technology to enhance the building’s energy efficiency and sustainability.
More information:
Our staff members supervise a broad range of Postgraduate Research students (please refer to individual staff profiles for details).
We invite applications for admission to our PhD programme in any area of sustainable development.
Please refer to individual staff profiles for further publications.
In 2023, we organised a number of events and workshops with both internal and external:
Best way to contact the SDRC is via email to one or both of the co-leads:

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-groups/science-and-technology-communication-research-cluster:
The Science and Technology Communication Research Cluster focuses on generating knowledge about the changes, implications, and consequences of innovative technology design – and how this is used in organizations, organizational ecosystems, the economy, businesses, and society at large.
This is a highly cross-disciplinary and inclusive area, encompassing both the private and public sectors.
We have twenty active members, with colleagues from across different Departments and Faculties at Middlesex, as well as from national and international institutions.
Our goal is to enhance synergy among members through grant bids, joint publications, impact case studies, and the integration of research into curriculum development.
Our aim is to enhance knowledge and understanding of technological innovation design and implementation, as well as organizational requirements for adoption and transformation.
We support organizations in sensing technological opportunities, identifying internal barriers, designing their desired futures, understanding implementation requirements, and managing the transformation needed to maximize benefits across economic, societal, and environmental aspects.
The STC cluster takes a holistic and multidisciplinary perspective, moving beyond specific technologies and systems to address the long-term and interconnected process through which social, organizational, and technical elements evolve and influence each other and the broader context.
Examples of research projects undertaken by the STC Cluster include:
The Science and Technology Communication Research Cluster welcomes applications for Doctoral study on all aspects of innovative technology design and its societal use.
Current areas where we would particularly welcome applications include:
Russ Lewis-- Supervised by Dr.
Javanmardi Kashan and Prof.
Maguire
Working collaboratively is central to the work of the Science and Technology Communication Research Cluster.
Key partners include:
Soydan Soylu - S.Soylu@mdx.ac.uk Dr.
Alireza Javanmardi Kashan - A.Kashan@mdx.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-groups/gender-and-diversity-research-cluster:
The Gender & Diversity Research Cluster is a well-established group providing a supportive and inclusive environment to produce critical business and management research, develop teaching practice, and generate stakeholder engagement activities, focusing on gender and its intersection with different aspects of diversity in the workplace.
Its interdisciplinary membership includes qualitative and quantitative researchers from the Department of Strategy, Leadership & Operations (SLO), the Centre for Enterprise, Environment and Economic Development Research (CEEDR), Law, Economics, Mental Health & Social Work, Criminology & Sociology, Psychology, Transdisciplinary Practice and Natural Sciences.
Our goal is to nurture a community of practice that engages with internal and external stakeholders to contribute to equity in workplaces, as well as the development of fairer, healthier, more prosperous and sustainable societies more broadly.
Cluster lead Bianca Stumbitz led on a REF 2021 impact case study on Maternity Protection which built on cluster members’ long-standing cross-national research on work and family.
Our ethos and activities closely align with the University strategy and support preparation for the next REF submission.
Current research builds on a body of work with strong societal impact presented in our REF 2021 impact case study on Maternity Protection.
Bianca Stumbitz (CEEDR)
Cluster staff from Middlesex work closely with Associates drawn from a wide range of other academic institutions.
We welcome doctoral candidates in the area of gender and its intersection with different aspects of diversity in the workplace.
Many Cluster members are PhD and DProf supervisors who work together to develop research approaches suited to contemporary problems and, particularly in case of the DProf, solutions to practitioners’ issues.
Our Cluster already includes PhD/DProf student and PostDoc members and we are keen to build future student/graduate membership to increase our mentoring and research capacity building activities.
Email Bianca Stumbitz on B.Stumbitz@mdx.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-groups/migration-politics-and-society-research-cluster:
This interdisciplinary research cluster addresses some of the major issues of the   contemporary world through research and knowledge exchange focussing on:
The cluster collaborates with research partners nationally through the Inter-University Migration Network (ARU, Greenwich, Middlesex) and internationally through our membership of IMISCOE (International Migration Research Network).
Commissioned by the UK Home Office, FCDO and the Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government (Keles, Christou, McDonald, Syrett) £10.000 (2024).
Keles with London Met and UCL, Nuffield Foundation, 2024-2025.
Horizon Europe/EU Guarantee Fund UKRI (Kofman, Acik)  2023-2025 (£260.037)
Focusing on Africa and Europe, we take into account the diversity of migrants’ personal experiences of those planning to leave, in transit and  who have returned in order to shed light on the complexities and challenges of migration and managing migration movements.
UKRI/AHRC (Kofman, Colucci, Lazzarino) 2024-2027 (£483,175)
2019-2024 (Kofman, Keles, Raina) (£1.2m)
The Hub ’s research comprises 32 projects under six themes: Transformation and Empowerment; Livelihood, Land and Rights; Migration and Displacement; Masculinities and Sexualities; Law and Policy Frameworks and Methodological Innovation, across seven focus countries: Afghanistan, Colombia, Iraq, Lebanon, Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka and Uganda.
At Middlesex university we focussed on the Migration and Displacement stream with two projects.
Culture and Conflict (Afghanistan, India, Pakistan and Sri Lanka) , investigated the value of culture to women in conflict settings, seeking to understand gendered economic exclusion and its relationship to peacebuilding, economic agency and empowerment.
£10,000 (Keles), 2023
Health, social, economic & cultural impacts of Covid-19 on migrant essential workers in the UK ESRC (Narkowicz, Glasgow and Sheffield Universities), 2020-2023
The Migration, Politics and Society Research Cluster Co-Leaders are:
Other cluster members comprise:
The cluster collaborates with many external research partners and works closely with the: Inter-University Migration Network with Anglia Ruskin and Greenwich Universities.
Set up in 2023, it has held two conferences focussing on how academics and a range of organisations can work collaboratively.
In 2024 the conference theme was: Working Well Together: forging productive partnerships.
We are an institutional  member of IMISCOE (International  Migration Research Network) , the largest network of migration researchers across 69 institutions globally.
We provide the Secretariat for the Afghan Women and Girls All Political Parties Group, UK Parliament.
We welcome doctoral candidates for study in relation to all aspects of migration research and it social, political and economic dimensions.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-groups/decision-making-for-policy-demap-research-cluster:
The Decision Making for Policy (DEMAP) research cluster at Middlesex University brings together academics, graduate students, and policy stakeholders to discuss and evaluate how people’s decisions affect their current and future well-being.
The purpose of DEMAP is to position Middlesex University as a leader in quantitative studies on how and why individuals make choices in the way they do and how these affect their social, economic, and political context.
Our vision for this cluster is that an inter-and multidisciplinary approach to decision making brings long-term sustainable, fair, and inclusive design policy solutions.
DEMAP is a multidisciplinary group of research staff encompassing Middlesex staff from the Business School (Economics, Management, Law, Marketing and Criminology & Sociology), Faculty of Arts and Creative Industries (Media and Visual Arts), and UK-based & international academics and practitioners.
The members are active researchers who are currently conducting applied research on decision-making on two main themes: human capital and productivity and social and political engagement.
The nature of these themes means DEMAP complements the work of other Research Centres and Groups at Middlesex.
DEMAP is rooted in the collaboration of researchers working on complementary areas, and not through a single-issue agenda.
This comprehensive approach facilitates collaboration between researchers working in different areas but with potential impacts on areas beyond their individual disciplines.
DEMAP acts as a hub of quantitative analysis with synergies and complementarities with other research groupings within Middlesex and academic institutions around the world.
Cluster members have expertise in lab, field, online, and survey experiments, as well as in quantitative methods using observational data such as instrumental variables, panel data methods, propensity score matching, among others.
DEMAP promotes feedback among its members and is approachable to other researchers inside or outside the cluster who are working on similar topics and interested in using quantitative methodologies to evaluate current or potential policies.
In collaboration with START Network, and the MEAL practitioners group, a consortium comprising over 50 humanitarian aid agencies across five continents—from major international entities like Save the Children, the International Red Cross, FAO, and WFP to national NGOs— DEMAP members advised on the most effective methods for evaluating the effects of anticipatory actions.
Anticipatory Action is humanitarian aid provided to populations and areas that are forecasted to be impacted by a slow-onset hazard (drought, desertification, sea-level rise, epidemic disease).
Cluster Members: Andrej Angelovski (MDX-AFE), Simon Lodato (MDX-AFE), Andreas Murr (University of Warwick), and Ericka Rascon Ramirez (MDX-AFE)
Project Outputs:
One of the risks associated with the widespread use of Large Language Models (LLMs) and the Gen-AI revolution is their utility in generating text and content that may be used for malicious purposes, such as fraud.
Using a controlled and incentivised experimental setting, the project intends to study individuals’ interaction with an LLM in devising textual messages sent with the intent to defraud, and compare the language with honest messages.
We compare these differences when help is gained from LLM/AI to those of humans only.
Cluster Members: Andrej Angelovski (MDX-AFE) and Manja Nikolovska (UCL)
The project studies how the presence of dependents, familial (children, elderly) or social (socially dependant), changes the bargaining behaviour of both parties, those with dependants they need to care for and those they are negotiating with.
The project further studies how (U.S.) political differences interact with this behaviour change.
Cluster Members: Andrej Angelovski (MDX-AFE), Arianna Galliera (Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore), Francesca Marazzi (U of Tor Vergata)
The project explores how skill and performance impact altruism/giving in two types of settings: 1) where the givers' net worth depends on merit, and 2) where the giver’s net worth is more luck-based.
The research obtains several novel results that add to our understanding of giving: in meritocratic settings, giver skill/performance has a clear negative relationship with giving, which is not true in luck-based settings.
The knowledge that the needy is working increases giving to them but this is independent of the performance levels of the needy, indicating that only the givers' own performance matters.
Cluster Members: Andrej Angelovski (MDX-AFE), Praveen Kujal (MDX-AFE)
This project aims to evaluate a set of small-scale interventions designed to raise awareness about toxic masculinity and misogyny.
Two pilot studies have been conducted to identify which components of the interventions are most effective in addressing this issue.
The findings from this qualitative evaluation will guide the refinement of interventions implemented by the MDX Film Department over the past three years, in preparation for a third pilot in 2025.
Based on the outcomes, the team plans to apply for a BA or ESRC grant to test the refined interventions on a larger scale.
Cluster members: Ben Serlin (MDX-Student Affairs), Helen Bendon (MDX-Film), Bastien Chabe-Ferret (MDX-AFE) and Ericka Rascon Ramirez (MDX-AFE).
This project has been funded by the Fundacion Ramon Areces and the Spanish Ministry of Science and Innovation.
The principal investigators (PIs) for this funding are cluster members Lorenzo Ductor and Ismael Rodriguez.
The funding has supported the data collection for three online experiments.
This project aims to investigate how gender stereotypes may influence individuals' decisions when forming work teams.
Cluster members: Lorenzo Ductor (U of Granada), Ericka G.
Rascon Ramirez (MDX-AFE) and Ismael Rodriguez (U of Malaga).
(PI Bianca Stumbitz) Funded by ESRC Transforming Working Lives Research Grant, 2022-2025.
Amount: 552,543.86 pounds.
Funding received by MDX.
Cluster Members: Bastien Chabet-Ferret and Ericka G.
Rascon-Ramirez
Democracy under Threat: How Education can Save it (DEMED) (Neundorf, Anja et al.)
Funded by ERC Consolidator Grant, 2020-2025.
https://www.gla.ac.uk/research/az/democracyresearch/
Cluster Member: Ericka G.
Cluster members : Bastien Chabe-Ferret (MDX-AFE) and Britta Stordal (MDX-HSCE).
The project explores if dating apps can facilitate searching for a romantic partner by directing users into sub-markets based on relationship types.
An example are the advertising campaigns of apps like Tinder and eHarmony, which target specific segments of the market based on desired commitment levels.
In this project, we aim to bridge the gap between theory and the complex reality of romantic matchings by conducting a thematic analysis of publicly shared data on social media.
This will provide deeper insights into the nature and performance of dating apps and the individual behaviour of participants.
Cluster members: Manja Nikolovska (UCL), Shilan Dargahi (U of Sussex), Simon Lodato (MDX-AFE)
This project will explore the causes behind inequalities between ethnic minorities and investigate potential effective policies to address them.
In this proposal, we propose a contextual approach shifting the focus from ‘who’ experiences inequality to ‘where’ it occurs.
The contextual foci of interest are how (i) regional factors, (ii) labour markets, and (iii) immigration policies affect economic inequalities in Britain, with international comparisons.
Cluster members: Segi Pardos (U of Glasgow) and Ericka Rascon Ramirez (MDX-AFE)
DEMAP welcomes applications for PhD and DProf study on any aspect of how and why individuals make choices and how these affect their social, economic, and political context.
Current and recent research PhD students include:
DEMAP works in close collaboration with external organisations in the UK and internationally.
DEMAP actively promotes knowledge exchange through its series of online workshops.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-groups/language-and-communication-research-group:
We are an enthusiastic, interdisciplinary group of scholars and researchers from across the university, with interests in all aspects of language and communication and the place they have in our lives.
In the Language and Communication Research Group we’re at the moment working on topics in philosophy of language, theory of communication, language in the media, semantics and pragmatics, the definition of language as a human phenomenon, gender and age in language use, language and place, political communication in language, dialogue, narrative and storytelling, language in critical theory, semiotics and rhetoric.
The group has a long history at Middlesex University, going back to the ground-breaking work in biosemiotics and cultural studies conducted here over many years by Paul Cobley (now emeritus professor) and colleagues, linguists like Billy Clarke and others.
We have made significant contributions to narrative theory and the theory and practice of close-reading.
The study of language and communication at Middlesex has always been influenced by Middlesex’ culture of theoretically grounded, critical, engaged and socially relevant scholarship and research.
This has led to a research environment that is particularly attuned to approaches to language that cast a wider net than seeing language mainly as code-based domain.
We are interested in the many ways in which language as a material, embodied praxis is an organic part of social, cultural, natural, interpersonal and intrapersonal processes and practices.
We see understanding language and linguistic diversity as a central aspect of social transformation, as well as a beautiful goal in itself.
Through our research we aim to contribute to a better social understanding of language and communication and their role in human well-being.
We also aim to support the development of communicative competence in all Middlesex students, recognising this is a one of the most influential graduate attributes.
A contemporary, critical and inclusive notion of eloquence underpins the contribution we aim to make to teaching and learning.
This long-standing current of thought and practice continues today with Discourse Analysis, Conversation Analysis, investigations into Multimodality, Systemic Functional Linguistics, Critical Discourse Analysis, Rhetorical Theory, Modelling Systems Theory and other approaches in the study of language and communication.
Group members have recently research and published on topics including prosody, Parliamentary discourse, the language of religion and utopia, narrative, discourses about food and ageing, language in environmental humanities, translingualism, dialogue, rhetorical conversation analysis, rhetorical approaches to syntax, philosophy of communication, metacognitive approaches to reading pedagogies and freedom of speech.
The group is home to the European Journal for the Philosophy of Communication (Empedocles) , co-home to the journal Social Semiotics and the book series Handbooks of Communication Science, and is closely involved in the Section for the Philosophy of Communication of the European Communication Research and Education Association (ECREA) .
Group members are on the editorial boards or, and/or have published in journals such as Language and Communication, Language Sciences, Discourse Studies, Futures and many others.
We are open to supervising PhD projects in any of our areas of interest and expertise.
Feel free to contact members of the group.
Director of Media Programmes
Senior Lecturer in Fashion Visual Cultures
Professor of Philosophy of Language and Communication
Here we post Calls for Papers by our research group and our collaborators:
Development in Discourse: Exploring the Contributions of Discursive Psychology to Understanding Change over Time
Dialogue as Community Building and as Philosophical Method
Writing for the Artefact
The Language and Communication research group hosts regular research seminars that explore work on language, discourse and communication.
Literature, creative writing and even film are also considered, representing our inclusive view of the subject area.
The seminar sessions include research presentations, workshops and reading groups.
In previous years we explored Monsters in Popular Cultural Texts (from witches and vampires, to zombies and werewolves), national and sexual identities, interpretation, reformation, multimodality and supercategory semantics; naming practices, archival research, the Gothic, reading on screen, visual semiotics and site-specific drama; creative criticism, languaging, language innovation and change, accents in film and television, intertextuality reimagining Orwell, city poetry, American metafiction, narrative, fictionalising transatlantic slavery, philosophies of dialogue and others.
The sessions are free and open to all staff, students and guests.
For more information or if you would like to lead a session, contact Anna Charalambidou .
The Language and Communication Research Group is part of collaborations with the Institute of Languages, Cultures and Societies, School of Advanced Study, University of London; Department of English, Manchester Metropolitan University; Department of English, Hong Kong University; the Institute of Science and Environment, University of Cumbria and others.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-groups/psychology-health-and-wellbeing-research-group:
The group consists of health, clinical and social psychologists who make use of a wide variety of methodological approaches to address questions concerned with understanding how biological, psychological, behavioural and social factors influence aspects of physical and mental health and illness.
We also have a Health Psychology Lab which sits within this research group.
It focuses on active collaborative projects and takes a biopsychosocial approach to understanding health and illness.
We are keen to have Research Assistants, MSc and/or PhD students working with us in the group lab so if you're interested in this opportunity, please get in touch with the research group lead Dr Nicola Payne.
Contact
Staff Profile: Dr Nicola Payne Email: N.Payne@mdx.ac.uk Phone: 020 8411 5467
Associate Lecturer
Senior Research Fellow Psychology
Dr Letitia Slabu Senior Lecturer in Psychology
Dr Karen Ciclitira Associate Professor in Psychology
Students wishing to undertake a PhD or those wanting to gain research assistant experience within any of our research teams should contact the staff directly (contact details available on individual staff profiles) or via Dr Nicola Payne .
If you would like to participate in any of our ongoing studies, please contact the research teams directly (contact details available on individual staff profiles) or via Dr Nicola Payne .

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-strategy-to-2031:
We transform outcomes and futures for individual students, and for the communities and regions in which we are embedded.
This strategy is a refresh of the Middlesex University 2031 Strategy to honour our history, recognise our strengths and our ambitions, and chart a way towards 2031 and beyond.
It is designed to enable everyone in the University community, and the University itself, to achieve their potential and thrive in a changing world.
Our future will be built upon the strong foundation of our past, of excellence in education, supported by our research and engagement, which is how we translate knowledge into action.
Knowledge into action
Our purpose is to educate, to create and share knowledge, for a fairer, more sustainable, productive and prosperous society.
Our vision is to transform outcomes and futures for individual students, and for the communities and regions in which we are embedded.
We will achieve this through the provision of excellent, supportive, multi-disciplinary higher education with a global outlook, working with our partners, preparing our students for career success, lifelong learning, and leadership.
Our strategic priorities are:
Find out more about Middlesex as an Anchor Institution in Our Community .
We are committed to being the higher education provider of choice for students, and to supporting their lifelong learning and social mobility.
Therefore, our students are at the heart of our actions and decisions.
Empowered by Middlesex, we know they go further than they would have thought possible, and we are inspired by their journeys.
Everything we do and achieve is made possible through our people, culture and sense of shared purpose.
We want all our staff to know that they contribute to the purpose of the University, to feel valued for it, and believe that Middlesex is a place where they can develop and grow.
We prioritise equity, inclusivity and fairness in all our activities and we expect that our people demonstrate this through our everyday actions and behaviours.
We are committed to being a respectful, diverse and supportive community, where all our staff and all our students feel they belong and are valued.
Middlesex University is integral to the communities around us.
We seek ways to work effectively with stakeholders outside the University, to shape our actions and benefit from other perspectives and from collaboration.
Strong relationships with our students, staff, alumni, employers, partners and community stakeholders are essential to delivering our shared goals.
Our partners come from across disciplines, professional services, sectors and cultures.
Middlesex University launched our Strategy 2031 as a living document that evolves with our people and the external environment.
It was originally developed through extensive consultation, with over 4,000 engagements with our community.
As an autonomous and global university, we have a responsibility to evolve in alignment to the changing needs of society, and to ensure we can be financially sustainable.
Following her arrival in April 2024, our Vice-Chancellor Professor Shân Wareing worked with her team on a programme of work to adapt the original Strategy for a new era so we remain both ambitious and relevant, and with a shared vision and purpose for all our campuses.
The team met with people across campuses, roles, disciplines, and backgrounds and heard how their work contributes to our purpose, vision and priorities to ensure that the University’s Strategy can enhance what we do.
The team considered this valuable feedback to finalise the refreshed document.
The refreshed Strategy 2031 was approved by the University's Board of Governors.
Leaders across the University have begun work with their teams and stakeholders to plan in detail how the Strategy will be taken forward in all areas.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/news/2022/11/canon-partnership-dan-sosnowski-jennifer-forward-hayter:
9 November 2022
MDX Creative Industries graduates have hailed an "amazing" partnership between the university and Canon, with students enjoying access to Canon products, expertise and professional networks and entry to international festivals.
2019 BA Photography graduate Jennifer Forward-Hayter went to the Visa Pour L'Image international photojournalism festival as a Canon award winner at MDX.
She was deeply struck by a talk by veteran Danish photo editor and photojournalism teacher Thomas Boberg - "very simple advice, I always refer back to it" - and stimulated by the different approaches taken by students from across Europe that she met there, who she still stays in touch with.
"In photography there isn't just one way answer, one way of doing something," she says.
"You can appreciate a wider photographic oeuvre".
Jennifer, winner of Best in Show for Week 1 at the leading photography graduate showcase Free Range in 2019, and now doing her Photography MA at MDX, says she has felt extremely well supported both by Canon staff and the reliability of Canon photographic equipment.
Nathan Dua, Education Segment Manager for the UK and Ireland is "really amazing, he gets stuff done.
He'd just pick up the phone," she says.
For her documentary photography projects, which have included capturing photos of Fleet Street journalists and media campaigners at work, she says "I'm going to get the shot with Canon, and justify the respect that these incredibly busy people have given me".
"On these shoots I'm normally surrounded by other photojournalists/photographers rubber-necking.
My subjects are editors and tough journalists who aren't used to sitting still and being told what to do, so there's definitely a lot of pressure to get things right, and to show off with high quality equipment".
Jennifer recently went to photograph journalists and news teams on the Ukraine-Poland border, taking a Canon with a compact 600D body and a huge L series lens.
She has just started a three month MA project in Australia embedded with satirical outlet The Chaser to document its team producing wide-ranging content from TV to theatre to podcasts.
She was grateful to have a Canon for photography workshops she ran for young children in Athens and London over the summer.
"You say, don't put fingers near the glass, and they do.
My Canons remained completely workable - they've been through a lot".
2022 TV Production graduate Francisco Batista was joint winner of one of three prizes awarded by Canon at the MDX summer graduate showcase, for co-producing a show called Lazy Lyrics.
For his final project at MDX, a studio music show, Francisco used a Canon video camera to shoot the video inserts.
"It was really nice to have a Canon with the high quality footage - light wasn't that much of a problem, we got all the details we wanted," he says.
"I've had Canon equipment for 10 years - it's been everything," Francisco says.
Self-confessedly "not a camera guy who knows exactly what equipment to use," Francisco appreciates Canon cameras' accessibility and user-friendliness: "The C100, C200, C300, it doesn't change much between them.
With other cameras, you're going to the menu and the settings.
With Canon, at the end of the day it's press and you're shooting".
Sine the prize he won at the graduate showcase was Canon equipment rental, "it was really nice to know Canon still wants to support us after uni," Francisco says.
"Any idea we have - it's not the end for this year or next year".
Canon provides equipment to MDX on an operational leasing model, meaning students have access to the latest kit without the university having to keep making expensive purchases.
Students are such regular users - with each camera changing hands up to 5 or 6 times a week - that MDX acts as an informal test bed for Canon, offering feedback on different models.
The partnership began four years ago, evolving over that time into a unique working relationship.
"It was quite obvious from the start that Middlesex University was really investment in Canon, and that we needed to be equally invested in Middlesex" says Canon's Nathan Dua.
"We've done 'Canon on Campus' events, where we come in with equipment and products so students and staff can try it out for themselves.
We bring industry professionals so students can directly engage and network.
“Using Canon’s corporate philosophy of “Kyosei”, living and working together for the common good, combined with MDX's forward thinking, inclusive approach, allowed us to try new ways in which to engage students and industry".
During graduation week 2022, Nathan was awarded one of the first new MDX medals , in recognition of his work to create valuable and exciting opportunities to co-create with Canon for MDX students, graduates and staff.
As a result of the publicity around this, Nathan says, Canon head office got in touch with him and gave backing to an initiative he had long been trying to get off the ground.
"We do look at other products," says head of Technical and Teaching Resources at MDX, Dan Sosnowski, who has spearheaded the partnership "but Canon keeps on winning!" His names his favourite features as "the flexibility, durability and the professional aesthetic of the output".
"We shape and educate future creatives, and in turn, Canon does too," says Dan.
"By establishing that element of trust, we can make our own calculated risks to invest and adopt.
"Our aim is to close or even eradicate the gap between education and industry, so we have have creatives, filmmakers, fashion designers, photographers going ready into the industry and sharing their imagination and creativity with everybody.
"That is at the heart of everything that we do here at Middlesex, and it was just great that we have colleagues at Canon that share our vision and understand it".
"From my interactions with Canon so far, and from what I have observed from them as a company, they really want their photographers to do well" says Jennifer Forward-Hayter.
"They're not just selling cameras: they're building tough, decisive photographers".
Read more about studying BA Photography at MDX.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/news/2023/08/pioneering-mdx-sustainability-research:
1 August 2023
A team of MDX researchers have been awarded funding to further explore how to improve unsustainable practices in the fashion and textiles industry.
Dr Patrick Elf, Safia Minney, Dr Andrea Werner and Prof Fergus Lyon from the Centre of Enterprise, Environment and Development Research (CEEDR) are challenging the unsustainability of the UK fashion and textile sector from the perspective of key suppliers in Bangladesh and India.
Their Regenerative Post-Growth Fashion (RPGF) project draws on multiple social science disciplines to address a number of critical key challenges in the industry including exploitative labour practices, overconsumption, and pollution and emissions related issues.
It also explores how a rapid transformation of the global fashion and textile system from unsustainable practices to regenerative, post-growth alternatives is possible.
The team uses practice-based research to highlight good practice initiatives and collaborations between UK buyers and suppliers in India and Bangladesh to reduce waste, and promote livelihoods and healthy ecosystems.
Often over-looked communities are given a voice and a radical bottom-up approach (starting with small parts and working towards a bigger picture) is used for data collection.
MDX will receive one of nine ACCESS Flex Funds after being selected from more than 60 applications from universities and research networks from all over the UK.
Patrick Elf, Senior Research Fellow in Sustainable Business, said: “The RPGF project will explore how a rapid transformation of the global fashion and textile system from unsustainable practices to regenerative, post-growth alternatives is possible.
"It will draw on ‘on-the-ground realities’, giving diverse communities a voice and (re) establish low-carbon practices as alternative thus demonstrating the value of good practice initiatives and collaborations between UK buyers and suppliers in India and Bangladesh to reduce waste, and promote livelihoods and healthy ecosystems."
A spokesperson from ACCESS said: “The projects all met our key aims around innovation, making the social sciences more visible and having an impact on today’s climate and environment crisis, and which take forward our guiding principles of co-production, sustainability and equality, diversity and inclusion."

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/business-partnerships/how-we-help-your-organisation:
We will work closely with your organisation to build the bespoke solutions you need from the ground up.
Whether your organisation is a small or micro business, a third sector support to the community, a company or a multinational firm it will need to develop new skills and new knowledge, make use of specialist equipment and facilities, and form new partnerships to transform what you do.
Middlesex is in your corner.
You can turn to us for ideas on how to improve productivity, develop new solutions, innovate, create new products or services, enhance your service to the public or adapt to change.
Unlike many other universities we’ve structured ours around a simple idea: that we should put knowledge into action.
We want to be your useful ally, and not only as a source of excellent graduates and postgraduates but as a partner in building your organisation’s whole future.
Our academic Faculties regularly engage with the world outside of the lecture hall.
Our bioengineers design devices for hospitals, our social scientists work with charity boards and government departments on policy, our design engineers shape delivery for tomorrow, our creative industry academics are a part of the creative industries.
We’re an international university able to source knowledge and knowhow from three different global locations.
And we’ve got  a formidable network of partners and collaborators to share in finding solutions that will work for your organisation.
You’ll need fresh ideas, practical solutions, effective skills – and we can help in all of those areas.
Turn to us for consultancy, contract research, CPD and skills development (from apprenticeships to Masters’ level specialist development), equipment and facilities access, licensing of technology, and the co-development of new IP - and for new ideas.
Our skills development programmes, credit-bearing and not-for-credit, are build to support your organisation’s journey.
We build skills programmes grounded in practice, like our outstanding CPD in healthcare and social work, or our apprenticeship programmes in sales or creative digital design, or our technology skills courses in areas like games and interactive media.
You can commission new skills courses, collaborate with us in their development, or ‘pick and mix’ from a variety of topical, relevant short courses.
North London has been our home since 1874, and we’ve served communities and organisations from Brent to Tottenham throughout that time.
We’re important to our immediate locality of Hendon, with 3,000 of our alumni living in Barnet.
We’ve worked with organisations like NHS trusts, London boroughs and third sector organisations to make life in North London better – whether through assisting in growing cultural outreach, improving healthcare practice or finding practical technical solutions for local engineering businesses.
Our staff serve on the boards of local schools or third sector organisations.
We’ve created new companies here, helped inspire young people to participate in science and technology through festivals, celebrated important events with the community around us, and helped our students help local organisations.
We’re the region’s key higher education partner, ready to put knowledge into action and put our shoulders to the wheel for the people of our part of London.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/business-partnerships/supporting-middlesex-university:
Thank you for looking to support us.
There are several ways that you can provide financial support to Middlesex University, from granting scholarships for talented students, supporting research excellence, alleviating student hardship and making a difference to almost any aspect of student life you would like to give a donation to.
Your support of students allows us to continue to provide world class and life changing education to students no matter what their background is.
Thank you for looking to support Middlesex University.
Middlesex University has charitable status, which means that gifts made by UK income tax payers can be made tax efficient through the Gift Aid Scheme.
By completing a Gift Aid Tax Declaration you can increase the value of your donation by nearly one third, at no additional cost to you.
Please visit the HM Revenue and Customs website for more information.
Payroll Giving allows you to make a donation to a charity directly from your pay or pension.
The payment is made after National Insurance contributions, but before Income Tax.
This means that you get tax relief on your donation immediately.
Should you wish to make a donation by payroll giving, you can authorise your employer or pension provider to deduct a set amount from your salary or pension income.
For further advice or help for employers and employees please contact the Charities Trust or visit the HM Revenue and Customs website.
The University is very grateful to receive legacies from its generous alumni and friends.
The legacies we receive have been put to great use for our students, including providing bursaries.
If you would like further information about how to leave a legacy, please email our Development Team or call +44 (0) 20 8411 4389.
For more information on donating a legacy, please visit the HM Revenue and Customs website.
If you want to donate shares to the University, you will need to complete a stock transfer form in order to take the shares out of your name and put them into Middlesex University's name.
For more information, please read the HM Revenue and Customs guide to giving shares to a charity .
Middlesex University is part of a coalition of NGOs, academics, activists, women’s rights defenders, journalists, artists, filmmakers and peacebuilders.
We are working to get our Afghan colleagues and families, who are under direct threat from the Taliban, to safety.
They have worked to bring peace to Afghanistan over the last 20 years, have fought for the rights of all Afghans, and especially women, girls and minority groups in direct opposition to the Taliban.
Find out more and donate .
Further options of support
If you would like further information about how to leave a legacy or to discuss making a bequest to the University, please contact the development team.
Email: developmentoffice@mdx.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/business-partnerships/international-education-consultants:
Middlesex University is represented by a select group of international education consultants throughout the world.
The University works closely with our international education consultant partners to ensure they have the tools they need to recruit students from areas when we may not have a regional presence ourselves.
If you are an international education consultant/agent and wish to recruit students for Middlesex University we'd be happy to hear from you.
To be considered to become an education consultant/agent we ask you to complete a short online questionnaire about your business and provide the names of 2 referees from universities who we can contact for references.
We will then review the information you have submitted, look at your company profile and the markets in which you operate and obtain references, we will then contact you within 6 weeks with a decision.
For further information please email the Director of International Recruitment and Academic Partnerships, Gurdip Binning .
Please complete this questionnaire to enable us to gain further insight on your company

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/international/agent-and-advisor-toolkit:
At Middlesex, we are among the world's most international universities.
There are over 122 nationalities represented among our students and staff on our campuses in London, Dubai and Mauritius .
As a valued partner, we are here to support you in advising students who are considering applying to Middlesex University.
Download our International Partner Guide
We’re looking forward to welcoming our international students for September 2025
Access our Agent Portal to submit applications, upload supporting documents, track the status of an offer and pay a deposit or tuition fees.
You must ensure that your students meet our English language standards in addition to their academic qualifications.
We have 50 staff members based overseas in dedicated Middlesex offices.
Find your key contact who will be able to assist you with any questions you might have.
Find your local International office.
We offer a large selection of courses across different levels of study.
Students will need to meet specific entry requirements, including academic and English language to gain a place on a course.
Our Pre-sessional English courses (PSE) range from 6 to 30 weeks.
After successfully completing a PSE course, students will not be required to take any additional English language exams, such as the IELTS.
Useful links
Arrival and preparation
Middlesex University is a world-class University, research and skills-based learning.
We’ve invested £200 million in state-of-the-art facilities at our campus home in north London, which is one of the biggest and most spacious in the capital.
Our multinational and multicultural students and staff come from more than 150 countries across the world.
For longer descriptive text (100, 150 and 200 words) please download our boilerplate document .
Our logo is unique to us and one of the key components of the Middlesex brand.
Find out the correct way to use our logos in this guide.
MDX Logos:
Logo 1
Logo 2
Logo 3
We can offer a wide selection of images to our international agents to showcase our facilities and students.
Download the images by right-clicking on them below.
We can offer a range of blurbs and artworks specifically designed to be used on social media.
● Download our blurbs
Middlesex University is the student choice for London's best university, with Gold awards in six categories:
1st for University of the Year in London (2nd in UK) (Whatuni Student Choice Awards 2025)
For information on good practice guidance and UK information for international agents, visit the British Council website.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/news/2025/6/whats-your-big-idea:
18 June 2025
A property tech concept by a Middlesex MBA student and a cold energy storage system to cool data centres have won top prizes at What’s Your Big Idea, Middlesex’s annual business pitching competition in partnership with Barnet Council and Barnet & Southgate College
There were 81 entries to this year’s contest, generously supported by Santander Universities, Barnet Council and Brent Cross Shopping Centre with the aim of developing an entrepreneurial culture among Barnet residents and students.
Participants vying for a share of the £20,000 award fund went through three stages – applying with a 90 second video clip outlining the problem their business idea addresses and the solution they offer; a series of masterclasses and mentoring sessions with industry experts; and another round of video pitching to narrow down to six finalists.
Listening to contenders’ in-person pitches and fielding them probing questions at the final on Friday 13th June were Ben Martin, MD of secure online data storage and delivery firm Safe4 and Education Chair of the Worshipful Company of Entrepreneurs; Michael Cheung, Net Zero and Business Advisor for start-up support company Wenta; and Rebeca Najmias, a MDX Digital Marketing MSc alumna and founder of matcha green tea suppliers Matcha Oishii, who was London winner of the 2023 MDXcelerator, a predecessor competition to What’s Your Big Idea.
With teams pitching propositions for the medical, property, retail and data facilities sectors, the judges were tasked with assessing whether founders had the potential to bring their businesses to life, against criteria such as identifying target audience, product offering and financial modelling.
Points were awarded on the basis of whether the businesses were solving a genuine problem, if they showed evidence of research, feedback, or early traction, and if they were clear about how they’d use the prize money and how that would accelerate their progress.
The £5,000 first prize in the category of student businesses went to SafeKey: a service to circumvent the stress of getting locked out of one's home by offering rapid replacement key delivery for a monthly fee.
The company, providing a secure and convenient alternative to traditional locksmiths, was co-founded by current MDX MBA student Simon Church.
Simon said the idea for the business came about after his girlfriend was locked out of her flat twice in a week, with one locksmith charging her £800 for a single visit.
“We’re solving an issue where people are regularly extorted in a vulnerable situation,” he said.
“We don’t want to make it too expensive.
We want to make it an affordable peace of mind product, where you hope you don’t have to use it”.
Simon, who is 39, enrolled on the Executive MBA at Middlesex as a chance to upskill and branch out after a solid career in Wealth Management sales.
Having started but never completed undergraduate studies he felt some trepidation about going back to the classroom, but found it “achievable” and through his hard work and application is on course for a Distinction.
“The fundamental opportunity it’s given me is space and time to consider what my next move is in life,” he said.
First prize in the Barnet resident category, also for £5000, was awarded to ClathriX, which is developing a energy storage solution to overhaul the cooling of data centres by using energy-absorbing phase change material technology.
ClathriX co-founder and Chief Technical Officer, ex-Dyson engineer and energy analyst Ali Izadi, gave a presentation about how the company's system design would lead to significant reductions in energy consumption, cooling costs, water usage and carbon emissions.
" What's Your Big Idea has been incredibly valuable for me personally and for ClathriX as a business," said Ali.
"The process has really helped me sharpen how I communicate technical concepts in a clear and engaging way.
It also pushed me to refine ClathriX’s value proposition and business model.
"The networking opportunities have been excellent.
Winning first prize has further strengthened my confidence that ClathriX can make a meaningful contribution to energy efficiency and decarbonisation.
" Thank you again to Middlesex and the organisers for running such a supportive and inspiring programme".
Second prize of £3000 in the student category went to Red Squadron, a business set up by MDX Film graduates offering pay-as-you-go, cinema quality content creation for small businesses and creatives, a low cost and more flexible alternative to hiring a social media manager.
Third prize for student participants was awarded to pre-medical consultation tool Auriv MedAI, which aims to streamline patient information collection, reduce consultation time and improve the accuracy of diagnoses.
Launching the event, MDX Vice-Chancellor Shân Wareing, who as an undergraduate thought about going down the start-up route herself, said: “I can remember the excitement of thinking I was going to start my own business, and that I would own it and there was this space.
"We absolutely need people with the kind of courage and the innovation and the desire to make a place for yourself in the world.
Anybody who got this far has got something going for them, regardless of what happens for the rest of the afternoon.
“We will all benefit ultimately from the economic benefits that you bring through your creativity, but we all learn from you as well”.
She talked about the stimulus for enterprise from the variety of cultures and traditions in the world, as found in concentrated form at a university.
Attending on behalf of the council, Barnet small business champion Cllr Ernest Ambe hailed MDX as a trusted partner on Barnet’s business ecosystem, the “cornerstone of the effort to make sure small businesses are heard, supported… connected with new ideas and given the right to succeed”.
From the judging panel, Ben Martin said: "The standard of the pitches was very high, with two presentations particularly outstanding.
"All of the candidates had prepared well and were able to answer questions from the judges.
The visual presentations were all well delivered.
Typically for such events, the students had not been able to address all the specific details, but the level of detail offered on the day was impressive.
"I look forward to working more closely with Middlesex in their endeavours to encourage a spirit of entrepreneurship among their student body".
Middlesex alumna Rebeca Najmias said that being a judge for the competition was "an incredibly rewarding experience.
As an entrepreneur, I understand the courage it takes to present an idea and open it up to feedback.
"I was genuinely impressed by the level of creativity, thoughtfulness, and potential in the projects.
Many of the participants were not just solving problems.
They were thinking critically about impact, community, and sustainability.
I judged with both a business mindset and a creative lens, looking for ideas that showed not just innovation, but heart and long-term vision".
Michael Cheung said: “It was a great and well organised day.
I'm glad I met my fellow panellists, who were able to bring in their area of expertise to help on the day.
"There was the right balance of innovation and proven business concepts in the final.
Some great and well-prepared presentations as well as styles - although I wish I could have given everybody first prize.
Judging by the calibre of the finalists, they should be well-equipped for the future".
Neil Churchill, Destination Director at What's Your Big Idea sponsor Brent Cross said: “We are proud to be at the heart of the Barnet community, and delighted to support What’s Your Big Idea, a brilliant initiative that champions local talent and ambition.
"Investing in entrepreneurship and employability is not only about building businesses; it’s about building futures.
We believe in empowering young people and new entrepreneurs with the tools, confidence and funding they need to thrive, and we’re excited to see the incredible ideas that emerge from this programme.”

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/business-partnerships/set-up-an-apprenticeship:
When you partner with us, we'll work closely together to develop and deliver a leading-edge degree apprenticeship programme for your workforce.
We'll support you with dedicated account management, help with recruitment, funding and finance as well as reporting and assessment.
A degree apprenticeship is an opportunity to find and develop skills that your workforce needs.
You design a programme that trains apprentices to have the right expertise and build talent within your organisation.
Apprentices make your product and service better and they help you to deliver it more effectively.
They'll bring up-to-date skills from their programme into your workplace and use their new expertise to work through your organisation's challenges as part of their curriculum.
Results show an increase in staff satisfaction at organisations with a degree apprenticeship programme.
You'll recruit from a group of talented potential apprentices and retain your best employees through ongoing workforce development.
We work with professionals and industry leaders to explore how to enhance employees' skills and knowledge through work-based learning.
We've developed higher education qualifications and degrees, including degree apprenticeships, in areas like business management and sales and digital technology .
Our long-standing experience and the recognised high quality of our programmes has established us as a leader in professional education in the UK and internationally.
We deliver workforce development programmes and provide public sector higher education focused on practice-based learning for occupational health and safety , environmental health , nursing and teaching .
Our expert practitioners work in partnership with public sector employers to enhance how their team works together and how they provide exceptional services to their clients.
We're leading the way in defining best practice in the development and delivery of public sector apprenticeships to help organisations and education providers train the qualified, skilled workers needed to deliver essential public services.
Best Practices in work-integrated learning for degree apprenticeships' report is based on insight from our national project to develop and launch apprenticeships for police officers, nurses, teachers and social workers working with public sector partners.
Read more: ' Best practices in work-integrated learning for degree apprenticeships '
The Sustainable Degree Apprenticeships report is part of a research project generously funded by education charity Edge Foundation, led by MDX with Staffordshire University, Sheffield Hallam University and the University Vocational Awards Council as the other partners.
The research set out to investigate what changes to higher education structures and practices are needed for degree apprenticeships to be delivered sustainably in the long term and to identify obstacles to success.
The report includes summaries of interviews with university staff, employers and apprentices, and a survey of providers, employers and apprentices asking to what extent degree apprenticeships meet the objectives of increasing social mobility, productivity and sustainability.
It makes recommendations under six headings for providers, employers and government.
The research has previously been presented at four dissemination events over the past six months, including a conference at MDX in early March.
Read more: Sustainable degree apprenticeships report
We've put together some guidance to help you understand how to pay for your apprenticeship and to get value from your investment.
In April 2017, the Government introduced a compulsory levy for all companies with an annual payroll of more than £3m.
The amount you pay will be 0.5% of your total payroll costs and it is collected through PAYE.
The money you pay is topped up with 5% by the Government.
If you're a business in England, you can directly access their money through the Digital Apprenticeships Service.
You can also select training providers and assessors, pay for training, and post vacancies.
If you don't spend the money on apprenticeship training then it expires 24 months after it's issued.
If you're a non-levy paying employer then you'll share the cost of training and assessing your apprentices with government – this is called ‘co-investment’.
You'll pay 5% of the cost of training your apprentice and the government will pay 95% up to the funding band maximum .
If you're an employer paying the apprenticeship levy, you can make a transfer to fund apprenticeships in another organisation .
If you don't pay the levy, register on the Find an Apprenticeship Service to receive a transfer from another employer.
Middlesex University are responsible for the quality of apprenticeship on-programme learning, teaching, training and assessment delivered by approved subcontractors.
The University will manage and monitor all subcontractors to ensure high quality delivery is taking place that meets ESFA funding rules.
Middlesex will carry out regular and substantial quality assurance monitoring of on programme learning, teaching, training and assessment.
In all cases, Middlesex University will check apprentice status and eligibility in accordance with ESFA funding rules.
Monitoring of subcontractors will also involve direct observation of initial guidance and assessment as well as delivery of on-programme learning, teaching, training and assessment.
Find out how we'll work closely with you to develop and deliver a degree apprenticeship programme that's tailored for your business and where you want to go.
Get in touch with us so we can find out more about your organisation, what you want to achieve from your degree apprenticeship programme and how to fully utilise your Digital Levy funds.
We can make sure you get the most out of a degree apprenticeship by helping you to:
We can support you to recruit the right people.
We can help you assess new candidates and existing members of your workforce who want to join the degree programme.
Middlesex University’s Centre for Apprenticeships and Skills will provide the professional support you need to understand what you're required to do when employing an apprentice.
We can guide you through initial legal and operational compliance, and further support you throughout the apprenticeship journey.
We can also help you set up and access your digital levy payments to fund your apprenticeships.
Apprentices are part of our student community - like any other learner.
They can make the most of our outstanding learning environment and be supported by University tutors to help them achieve their learning goals.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-community:
Our biodiverse, green campus has 110m2 of green walls and is home to 140,000 bees.
Apprentices studying with us, including the nurses and police constables our communities need.
Barnet Multi Faith Forum and Middlesex University Inter Faith Network are holding their 4th annual Faith and Peace Walk on Thursday 19th June 2025 at 4-8pm.
This date is National Clean Air Day and the walk is supported by the London Festival of Architecture and Barnet Climate Action Month 2025, both taking place for the whole month of June.
The focus of the Faith and Peace Walk will be on community cohesion and local sustainability initiatives.
The finale event will occur at Brookside Methodist Church from 7-8pm where there will be stands, displays, presentations and light refreshments with plenty of opportunity to network and find out what you can do to help combat the effects of climate change and make sustainable choices.
Book your tickets
Following the success of our events in 2024, this free dance is being organised to give local older adults an opportunity to dance!
We provide an authentic disco experience with the intention of promoting health and wellbeing.
The initiative takes inspiration from countries such as Japan and South Korea, whose populations continue to participate in dance and movement activities as they grow older, and this has proven beneficial for psychological and physical health.
This is an opportunity for guests to dance to their favourite songs in a relaxed environment.
There will be no routines or choreography, just freestyle dancing and socialising.
There is no entry fee, and free tea and coffee.
Contact Dr Lucy Irving ( l.irving@mdx.ac.uk ) should you have any questions.
Are you passionate about the environment and ready to inspire your community?
Learn how to start waste-reduction initiatives, so money, electricity, water, and other precious resources aren't wasted.
Become a zero-waste leader!
Free for Barnet residents.
We are committed to being an institution that is enduring and financially resilient, and that serves, supports and sustains Barnet and our local areas.
We work hard to be the higher education provider of choice for students and employers in the communities and regions of our global campuses.
Being a good neighbour and having a positive impact on the local area is very important to us.
The University and the London Borough of Barnet will continue to work together with the police to reduce the incidence and impact of antisocial behaviour.
We have listened to local residents and have increased security patrols on and around campus, and made it easier for residents to report problems or issues.
If you are a local resident and have any questions or concerns about the University’s or its members’ impact on the local community, please don't hesitate to contact our Security Team, available 24/7.
Call +44 (0)20 8411 7777
Middlesex University has joined a range of shops and businesses in Barnet which are helping to improve the health and wellbeing of our local community through the Healthier High Streets scheme .
The Healthier High Streets programme brings together five schemes set up to encourage businesses to offer environments where the local community can come together and make healthy choices in safe, welcoming and inclusive spaces.
Middlesex University has joined the ‘Refill Barnet’ scheme for offering free drinking water refills available to all, while the University’s catering provider, Chartwells, has joined the ‘Healthier Catering’ scheme, which guarantees that we offer a healthy and nutritious food offer.
Local residents can look out for the Heathier High Streets Sticker displayed in shop windows, see what’s on offer at their favourite local businesses, and find a Healthier High Street shop near them through the Borough’s Health and Wellbeing map .
We play a key role in our local area and we support local business, groups, schools, colleges and community members.
Many of our campus facilities – including cafés, outdoor 3g pitches, multi activity courts and our gymnasium are available to our local community, and we aim to facilitate community use of some meeting rooms and spaces when we are able to.
Our Church Farm Meeting Room can also be reserved by the public.
We are pleased to announce that the Rickett Quadrangle in our College Building has been registered as a Warm Space.
Warm Spaces is a community-led initiative where businesses, community, faith or social enterprise organisations provide a welcoming space for residents to stay warm and engage with others in their community.
Our cafés at The Quad in our College Building and The Grove – which provide a great selection of food and snacks, with gluten free, halal, vegan and vegetarian options available – are open to our local community.
Our prices start at £1.10 for hot food and £2.10 for sandwiches – add a snack or fruit with a drink for £3.99.
The Quad opening times: Monday to Friday: 7.30am to 7pm (term time); Saturday: 8.30am to 4pm (term time); Monday to Friday: 8am to 5pm (out of term)
The Grove opening times: Monday to Friday: 8.30am to 6pm (term time); Closed (out of term)
We welcome local community members and we would love you to join The Fitness Pod at Middlesex University.
We have highly competitive gym memberships which include access to our impressive fitness centre and class programmes.
No contract or joining fee required!
Our gym, 3g pitches and multi activity courts are open to our local community at competitive rates.
Our 3g pitches have marking for Football (11 and 7-aside) Lacrosse and more.
Our Multi Activity courts are available for a variety of sports including tennis, netball, 5-aside football and cricket.
Find out more about our sports facilities .
To check availability and to book a court or pitch, please contact thefitnesspod@mdx.ac.uk or telephone the reception on 020 8411 6343.
For more information about our Sports facilities please contact Toni Hannan: t.hannan@mdx.ac.uk or thefitnesspod@mdx.ac.uk
At Middlesex we are committed to creating a positive, inclusive environment where diversity is a strength and everyone is treated equally with dignity and respect.
MDX Inter Faith Network (IFN) aims to showcase and support the diversity of religious belief within the staff and student community at Middlesex University.
For further information contact: MDXInterfaith@mdx.ac.uk
If you are a member of the public, Report It To Stop It and find out what to do if you’ve been affected by a hate crime and see how Middlesex University, as a member of the Barnet Network of Reporting Centres, can help you report the incident.
We care about the physical environment at our campus in Hendon, north London.
We're doing award winning work to make it more sustainable and to reduce our impact on our environment year on year.
Watch our video to find out how we're increasing biodiversity on campus through collaborative thinking and working.
Find out more about sustainability at Middlesex
Use of green spaces in our grounds, such as the Paddock and Church House is available to the local community.
After they were in decline for several years, in March 2022 we replaced our large conifers in front of the College House building with three Hornbeam trees.
We also planted eight small leaved lime trees in the Paddock.
We have completed improvements in the Hendon Grove, works include:
We have installed bird, owl and bat boxes on the trees in Hendon Grove.
Our Performing Arts Department are pleased to be involved in an exciting new Cultural Education Strategy for Barnet and Culture for Youth, pledging an artist in every school by 2027.
A group of leading arts and education partners worked throughout the pandemic with over 100 arts and education members across Barnet to crystallise a vision where all schools have an artist residency, and every young person can consider and access creative career opportunities.
Download the strategy and have a read of our news article about Performing Arts at Middlesex and the Barnet Cultural Education Partnership.
We offer short courses and CPD - or continuing professional development that include:
Find out about our development courses .
We want to keep open channels of communication and collaborate better with our neighbours.
We have set up a University and Residents Forum and have met several times throughout since 2021.
Topics discussed included security, community use of University spaces, litter and environmental issues.
If you are interested in joining or would like to know more, contact W.Townsend@mdx.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/business-partnerships/academic-partnerships/aptech-top-up-and-progression-partnership:
You can choose to study at our flagship campus in London, or at our global campuses in Dubai or Mauritius where you will join current students on the first, second or third year of their course, along with other new students who are also topping up their qualification with us.
Study for one, two or three years to gain a BSc qualification, and one further year for a Masters degree.
Select your Aptech qualification to see your progression options.
Courses may be available at our London campus, and also at our international campuses in Dubai and Mauritius as indicated above (L=London, D=Dubai, Mau=Mauritius).
On successful completion* of the ACCP (ADSE) from APTECH, you can progress onto:
*Specific entry requirements will apply
On successful completion* of the AD3D or ADIM from APTECH, you can progress onto:

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/business-partnerships/academic-partnerships/pearson-edexcel-hnd-top-up-partnership:
We have partnered with Pearson's Edexcel to offer a top-up route to a range of undergraduate degrees, in subject areas including Art & Design, Biomedical Science, Business, Childhood Studies, Computing and Media.
You will join our current students on the second or third year of their course, along with other new students who are also topping up their qualification with us.
Study for two or three years to gain a Bachelor, and one further year for a Masters degree on our state-of-the-art campus in London.
Some courses also have the option to study at one of our global campuses in Dubai or Mauritius (L=London, D=Dubai, Mau=Mauritius)
International students will also need to meet our standard English language requirements .
If you don't meet our minimum requirements, we offer a Pre-sessional English course .
On successful completion of the BTEC HND Hospitality Management from Edexcel, you can progress onto:
Level 6 (Year 3 equivalent) of International Hospitality and Tourism Management (Top Up) BA (Hons) at Middlesex University London.
On successful completion of the BTEC HND Advanced Studies in Early Years from Edexcel, you can progress onto:
Level 6 (Year 3) of Early Childhood Studies BA (Hons) at Middlesex University London.
On successful completion of the BTEC HND Biomedical Science from Edexcel, you can progress onto Biomedical Science BSc (Hons) at Middlesex University London at the following entry point:
On successful completion of the BTEC HND Creative Media (Moving Image) from Edexcel, you can progress onto Film BA (Hons) (L/D).
You can enter at the following points:
On successful completion of the BTEC HND Creative Media (Journalism) from Edexcel, you can progress onto Creative Writing and Journalism BA (Hons) (L/D) at the following entry point:
On successful completion of the BTEC HND Creative Media (Computer Game Animation) from Edexcel, you can progress onto 3D for Games and Films BA (Hons) at Middlesex University London at the following entry point:
Entry is also subject to our review of your portfolio .
On successful completion of the BTEC HND Fine Art from Edexcel, you can progress onto the following Middlesex University degrees:
Entry is also subject to our review of your portfolio of art and design work .
On successful completion of the BTEC HND 3D Design from Edexcel, you can progress onto Level 5 (Year 2) of Interior Architecture BA (Hons) .
On successful completion of the BTEC HND Fashion and Textiles from Edexcel, you can progress onto the following Middlesex University degrees:
Entry is also subject to our review of your portfolio of art and design work.
On successful completion of the BTEC HND Graphic Design from Edexcel, you can progress onto the following Middlesex University degrees:
On successful completion of the BTEC HND Interactive Media from Edexcel, you can progress onto the following Middlesex University degrees:
On successful completion of the BTEC HND Photography from Edexcel, you can progress onto Level 5 (Year 2) of Photography BA (Hons).
On successful completion of the BTEC HND in Business (Level 5) from Edexcel, you can progress onto the International Business Administration (Top-up) BA at the following entry point:
On successful completion of the BTEC HND in Computing from Edexcel, you may be able to progress onto the following Middlesex University degrees:
To progress to Information Technology BSc (Hons), students must complete the HND in Computing (General) and take the modules: Human Computer Interface; Project Management; and Visual Programming.
To progress to Information Technology and Business Information Systems (Top-up) BSc, students must complete the HND in Computing (General, ICT Systems Support or Software Development pathway) and take the modules: Management in IT; and Project Management.
To progress to Computer Networks and Security BSc (Hons), students must complete the HND in Computing & Systems Development + Software Development.
They must also pass a Level 5 module in Networking and pass a Level 5 module in Data Communications.
An acceptable equivalent to the Networking module would be a pass in Cisco CCNA parts 3 and 4.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-story/our-reputation-and-impact:
Our high-quality teaching, welcoming student experience, and impactful global research and partnerships make us an award-winning, global university.
At Middlesex University, we help our students develop more and go further than they ever thought possible.
Since 1878, we have built an international reputation for excellence by defining new approaches to education.
We are recognised for our high-quality education that helps our students become the best version of themselves with career-ready skills that will transform their lives, professions and communities.
Explore our courses
Our students learn at our top-notch London facilities through activities and hands-on experience with real projects, industry placements, and networking with global leaders.
Our graduates achieve remarkable results with a degree that has real value and with London at their fingertips.
Find out more about employability at Middlesex
With students from 140+ countries, our London campus is more than just a place to study – it is where community, connection, and unforgettable experiences come to life.
We work hard to ensure that every student belongs from day one and is valued, supported, and given the space to grow.
Discover student life at our North London University
We are passionate about educating local people and partnering with local government, professions, businesses and charities to help make our region a more prosperous and inspiring place to learn, work and live.
Find out more about how we strengthen our community
Our course portfolio is underpinned by research and our international community of academics excels in collaboration and tackles today’s biggest challenges, with a focus on contributing to the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs).
Explore how our research tackles hard problems
Investigating nanoplastics in tampons
Our biomedical researchers have raised awareness of the health and environmental impact of tampons by investigating how nanoplastics are introduced into the body, helping consumers to make better decisions.
Improving career progression for BAME doctors
We uncovered the barriers to career progression for Black and Minority Ethnic doctors in the NHS in research from our Business School and made detailed, evidence-based recommendations for improve recruitment and retention of talent.
Helping young people into screen industries
As leaders in the Creative Campus Network and the Mayor of London’s Creative Skills academy, we are helping thousands of young people into the screen industries - including many from disadvantaged and underrepresented backgrounds.
Reimagining north London neighbourhoods
The KilburnLab initiative, driven by our School of Arts, is reimagining disused community spaces to improve the north London neighbourhood through 44 major projects by our creative students
Talking about sustainability in Dubai
Ahead of hosting the UN Climate Change Conference COP28, our Dubai campus organised For the Love of the Planet to find student-driven solutions to the issues of sustainable fashion, food sustainability and the circular economy.
Supporting young students during the pandemic
Our Digital Campus programme engaged underrepresented students from 11 to 14 with online learning during the global pandemic, and won us the 2022 WhatUni Student Choice Award for Outreach and Widening Participation.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/vice-chancellor-and-executive:
The University Executive Team are individually responsible for developing different aspects of the University's work
Our experienced and dedicated University Executive Team (UET) is led by the Vice-Chancellor, Professor Shân Wareing.
As a team and a community, we are committed to providing flexible and accessible practice-led education, impactful research and strong engagement with practice to make a difference to key global challenges.
Professor Shân Wareing took up her position as the Vice-Chancellor of Middlesex University in April 2024.
Prior to this role she was Deputy Vice-Chancellor at the University of Northampton, and other executive roles she has held include Chief Operating Officer at London South Bank University and Pro Vice-Chancellor Learning and Teaching at Buckinghamshire New University.
She has a track record of leading institutional transformation programmes include assessment at University of the Arts London, leading to a 12% uplift in the assessment and feedback questions in the National Student Survey sustained over 10 years, digital transformation of the student journey at London South Bank University, which won a PwC award, and recruitment improvements at the University of Northampton, leading to an uplift in recruitment of 18-year-old students, ahead of comparable higher education institutions.
Shân’s first full-time job was as a Lecturer in English Language and Linguistics at the University of Roehampton, before she moved into the field of Education Development, during which period she was Co-Chair of the Staff and Educational Development Association.
She is Chair of the charity, Unite Foundation, Chair of Advance-HE’s Leadership and Management Strategic Advisory Group, and Co-Chair of the Advance HE Leadership Framework Steering Group.
She has published in the fields of linguistics, equality, diversity and inclusion, leadership and team development, and learning and teaching in higher education.
Her current scholarly interests are university leadership and governance from the perspective of diversity and inclusion, digital transformation, and higher education policy.
Shân grew up in Swansea, Wales, and studied English Literature and Language at the University of Oxford, and Sociolinguistics at the University of Strathclyde.
She was a competitive rower for many years and has a rowing half-blue from Oxford.
Shân holds a postgraduate diploma in Higher Education studies from the Institute of Education, University College London, she is a Professor of Teaching in Higher Education, a Principal Fellow of the Higher Education Academy and a National Teaching Fellow.
In her role as the Vice-Chancellor, Shân leads the University's diverse and innovative community, including staff, students and partners in an outstandingly collaborative and inclusive culture.
As the Accountable Officer to the Office for Students, Shân has responsibility for:
Shân is the University's principal representative in articulating the University’s interests and needs to the wider world.
She also plays an important role in representing Middlesex University to government, businesses, funders and to national, global and local stakeholders.
An important part of Shân's role is to deliver our University Mission and Strategic Plan to be a global university, operating at new levels of accessibility, working in new forms of partnership and developing new understandings of the world through which our growing community can influence it for the good.
Shân shapes the strategic direction of the University in partnership with the Board of Governors and is accountable to the Chair of the Board of Governors.
She is also a full member of the Board of Governors.
All members of the University Executive Team report to Shân as the Vice-Chancellor.
On 15 January 2025, we celebrated the inauguration of our Vice-Chancellor Professor Shân Wareing.
This special ceremony marked the official start of Shân as our new Vice-Chancellor and a new era for the University as we count down towards our 150 year anniversary in 2028.
Watch back our video below of Shân's speech at the ceremony to hear about her personal journey to Middlesex and why her new role means so much, as well as her thoughts on the importance of higher education to individuals and to communities.
Read a summary of Shân's speech
James Smith joined Middlesex University in the new position of Chief Information Officer in October 2024.
He was previously at Birkbeck, University of London for 16 years in roles including Chief Information Officer, Director of Process Improvement and Corporate Information Systems and Director of IT.
James studied Computer Science and holds an MBA in Higher Education Management from UCL IOE.
Earlier in his career he helped universities including Middlesex implement and develop their Banner student systems, when he worked for SunGard Higher Education (now Ellucian).
He has been a Universities and Colleges Information Systems Association (UCISA) trustee since 2021 and is Chair of UCISA’s Corporate Information Systems Group (CISG).
With vast experience in corporate system implementation projects on both the customer and supplier side, James has worked on small- and large-scale institutional change, process discovery and improvement projects in areas as diverse as student systems, HR, payroll, finance, timetabling, and access control.
He has led work to establish and embed agile working across professional services, and to improve resilience through modernised and rationalised infrastructure.
In addition, James has developed a Digital Education function using technology to support academics in teaching and enhancing the student experience, and has established an integrated Information Services combining library and IT services.
In his role as Chief Information Officer, James will ensure digital technologies are integral to all strategic decisions.
He is responsible for the University’s Digital Strategy, and for leading Library, IT and digital services.
Dr Tim Westlake is our Interim Chief Operating Officer, having joined Middlesex University in July 2024.
Tim has over 30 years of experience working in Higher Education.
Prior to joining Middlesex, Tim was Chief Operating Officer and University Secretary at the University of Sussex.
Previously, he held leadership and academic roles in institutions including The University of Manchester, Cardiff University and Birmingham City University.
Tim gained a Bachelor's, Master’s and PhD in Town Planning at Cardiff University.
He was a Board Member of the British Council's Education Counselling Services, Chair of Wales Higher Education International Liaison Association and Chair of the Board of the Wales International Consortium.
In addition, Tim was a Member of the British Council Global Alumni Strategy Advisory Group; the British Council Technical Advisory Group Predicting the Global Demand for International Education; the UCAS Board of Directors; and a Member of the National Qualifications Information Review Steering Group.
As Interim Chief Operating Officer, Tim has overall responsibility for Professional Services across the University.
Dr Ellen Buck joined the University in the position of Pro Vice-Chancellor Education and Student Experience in February 2025.
Prior to this role, Ellen was Director of Learning and Teaching at the University of Suffolk, with responsibility for the Centre of Excellence in Learning and Teaching, Access and Participation, the Teaching Excellence Framework, Educational Development and Quality Enhancement, Student Experience and Library and Learning Services.
While there she also led a Research Centre with work relating to widening access and social mobility and pedagogic innovation and has published in these areas.
Ellen has significant experience of transforming learning and teaching, and student experience.
Having led the University of Suffolk’s COVID-19 response for learning and teaching, she developed and implemented the Block and Blend method of designing and delivering curriculum, making Suffolk the first university in the UK to roll out block approaches at undergraduate level.
As a result, continuation rates increased by 13% and the University achieved TEF Silver in all components.
She has experience of working with apprenticeships, securing an Ofsted rating of Good for the quality of learning and teaching and has worked with a range of further education and private providers in the UK and internationally.
Ellen has also Chaired the Quality Assurance Agency Subject Benchmark Statement review for Librarianship, Information, Knowledge, Records and Archives Management, and is a member of the AdvanceHE Strategic Advisory Group for Teaching and Learning.
She developed experience of library services management in her work at Falmouth University and in the civil services.
She has a degree in Italian, Master's in Information Management and Doctorate in Education.
She is also a Principal Fellow of AdvanceHE.
In her role as Pro Vice-Chancellor Education and Student Experience, Ellen provides strategic leadership  for delivery of an excellent academic experience for students at Middlesex University and for ensuring staff have access to the support and development opportunities they need to excel in their roles.
She is an advocate for collaborative working and co-creation,  placing students at the centre of her leadership.
Professor Janet Jones is Pro Vice-Chancellor, Global Research and Knowledge Exchange and Interim Dean of our Faculty of Arts and Creative Industries, having joined Middlesex University in October 2024.
Janet has previously held positions including Pro Vice-Chancellor Knowledge Exchange, and Head of the College of Design, Creative and Digital Industries, at the University of Westminster.
Other senior roles she has held include Dean at London South Bank University and Associate Head at the University of West of England.
Prior to her higher education roles, Janet has 16 years of strong industry experience gained at the BBC in high-impact positions such as Series Editor, Executive Producer and Director of the BBC’s Canadian office in Toronto.
Janet has led large faculties and significant transnational education partnerships, and in previous roles has built external links to enhance civic, commercial, innovation and business engagement.
Her focus on knowledge transfer has enhanced universities’ capacity to deliver measurable economic and social impacts.
Importantly, she places student success and teaching excellence at the heart of her leadership, ensuring students benefit directly from a rich research and knowledge exchange environment.
Janet advocates for flexible and agile operating models that support the connections between teaching, research and knowledge exchange.
She has published in the areas of Public Service Broadcasting, Television, Journalism and Media Policy.
In her role as Pro Vice-Chancellor, Global Research and Knowledge Exchange, Janet provides strategic leadership for the University’s International Campuses, civic engagement, Re­search and Knowledge Exchange, and commercialisation of academic activity, including innovations in qualifications and portfolio.
Janet will be leading the institutional preparations for REF 2028, and the Knowledge Exchange Framework (KEF) and work to enhance our business-to-business engagement across the organisation.
Professor Martin Broad is the Dean of our Faculty of Business and Law, which includes the Business School and the School of Law and Social Sciences.
Martin has over 30 years of experience of Higher Education, with former appointments as Professor and Dean of the Faculty of Business, Law and Digital Technologies at the University of Winchester, Head of Southampton University Business School (QS 100 and Russell Group), and former Vice Chair of the Chartered Association of Business Schools Council.
He also holds an honorary professorship from Amity University, India.
Martin has been a successful entrepreneur as well as being a chartered management accountant providing clear leadership in all his previous appointments.
While at the University of Southampton, Martin also secured initial Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) accreditation for the Business School, reaccreditation of  Association of MBAs (AMBA) and secured the Small Business Charter at the University of Winchester Business School.
Martin has successfully supervised over a dozen doctoral students to completion and has extensive educational experience and research interests in governance and performance management in the public sector, particularly in Higher Education with his PhD in the same area from the University of Bath.
Dr Sinead Mehigan is the Interim Dean of our Faculty of Health, Social Care and Education.
Previously, she was Head of our Department of Nursing and Midwifery for many years.
Her clinical background is in perioperative nursing.
Over her career, Sinead has held positions in clinical practice, clinical commissioning, and as an academic and academic manager.
Her academic interests include leadership, anaesthetic and perioperative nursing, mentorship, preceptorship, workforce development, nursing retention and supporting learners in practice.
Sinead is committed to working in partnership with local employers to develop a professional workforce across health, social care and education settings.
In addition to her academic role, she has worked at regional level on a range of system-wide programmes to develop and retain a healthcare workforce.
This includes the CapitalNurse programme since it was set up in 2015, and being part of the Nursing Workforce programme at North Central London Integrated Care System (NCL ICS).
More recently, Sinead has been co-director and co-chair of the North Central London Clinical Academic Nexus (NCL CAN), working with colleagues across NCL to create space for professional conversations about nursing.
Professor Balbir Barn is the Dean of our Faculty of Science and Technology.
Balbir is Professor of Software Engineering and his previous appointments in higher educa­tion include Associate Dean for Business in our former School of Engineering and Information Science, and Head of Department at the University of West London.
In these roles, Balbir has led on curriculum design and delivery, quality assurance of education, advancing technology enhanced learning in the curriculum and leading on developing capacity in re­search infrastructure.
Through collaborations with the universities of Southampton and Royal Holloway, he pioneered the use of mobile technology for practice-based learning in social work and nursing.
Balbir has an international reputation in software engineering and extensive commercial research experience working on model driven software engineering in research centres as well as leading on funded academic research (over £2.5m).
He has also provided consultancy to clients including JP Mor­gan Chase and JISC.
His work is multi-disciplinary, for example working with criminologists and sociologists in applying technology to tackle social challenges such as surveillance and cyber-crime, and in social media research.
Since 2012, Balbir has been collaborating with TCS Research India to develop key advances in Digital Twin technology, and his research in Digital Twins is recognised through consultancy with the UK Home Office and keynote presentations at leading international conferences.
The recently-completed Mobile Apps for Youth Offending Teams (MAYOT) project is being evaluated by several youth offending services in Wales and England.
Balbir has published over 130 peer-reviewed papers in leading interna­tional conferences and journals.
The Academic Board, which is chaired by our Vice-Chancellor, is made up of 30 individuals that advise on the recruitment and retention of our students, the content of our curriculum, and the assessment and examination process.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/external-examiners:
Academic Quality Service: academic quality experts collaborating with colleagues to ensure the University delivers a high quality experience for all students and that qualifications awarded are recognised as world class.
Information on these pages relate to the external examining process for undergraduate and postgraduate taught programmes at Middlesex University, and also to the taught elements of postgraduate research.
The aim of the external examiners in autonomous higher education institutions such as ours, is to provide a key means of maintaining academic standards.
Therefore, external examining is a crucial part of our institutional quality assurance.
If you have any general enquiries regarding your External Examiner appointment or you would like to enquire about an external examiner vacancy at Middlesex University, email: externalexaminer@mdx.ac.uk .
If your query is related to Assessment Board information, email: assessmentofficers@mdx.ac.uk .
If you are an existing external examiner and you wish to change your contact details or personal information, please email: externalexaminer@mdx.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/news/2025/7/mdx-students-selected-for-2025-worldskills-uk-finals:
22 July 2025
MDX fields more teams than ever before at Britain's premier technical skills development event
Ten Middlesex University students have reached the WorldSkills UK national competition finals, in four categories: Automation, Mechatronics, Industry 4.0 and Cybersecurity.
In addition, 2024 MDX graduate Gabija Gailunaite, who now works for BPTW Architects, has been picked for the Digital Construction competition.
Mechatronics finalist Omar Maaouane Veiga, who has just graduated with a Bachelor of Engineering in Mechatronics and Robotics, won Gold in the WorldSkills UK Automation finals in Manchester just nine months ago.
In 2023, his competition partner Tamunormiete Manuel competed in the Automation finals.
Middlesex is fielding teams in more WorldSkills UK disciplines than ever before.
The University has a long-standing partnership with WorldSkills UK, with Head of Design Engineering and Mathematics Professor Mehmet Karamanoglu devising the Automation and Mechatronics competitions each year.
Two MDX alumni, Marcin Regulski and Calum Knott (pictured below, with a cyber factory competition set-up), are Team UK experts in WorldSkills International competitions.
This year’s national finals are being held at further education colleges and university campuses across South Wales.
Some 417 finalists are taking part in 47 different events, whittled down from nearly 7,900 young people who registered to compete at regional level.
Medal-winners will be announced at an awards ceremony in the International Convention Centre in Newport on 28 th November, with the champions having a chance to represent the UK at the next-but-one WorldSkills international finals in Aichi, Japan in 2028.
The next WorldSkills International events are EuroSkills for UK and EU teams, hosted at MCH Messecenter Herning this September, followed by the biennial WorldSkills finals in Shanghai in September 2026.
Professor Mehmet Karamanoglu (pictured above, third from left, with WorldSkills UK finalists Carlos Ariel Huallpa Fernandez, second from left, and Naveen Gunasekaran, second from right) said: "It is always great to see our students entering competitions.
I am delighted that so many of our students have earned a place in the Automation, Mechatronics, Industry 4.0 and Cyber Security national finals.
“Our alumni continue to challenge themselves even after they leave us and go into industry, raising their technical skills and aiming for excellence.
I am full of admiration for our young people and wish them all the best in the UK Finals.”
“We're thrilled to have made it to the finals once again.
The battle is won but the war is not over - we need to double our efforts and come even more prepared.
“We’re immensely proud to represent Middlesex University.
This is an incredible opportunity to showcase our skills on a national stage, and we’re determined to make the most of it.”
Mechatronics finalist Omar Maaouane Veiga
WorldSkills UK competitions support young people in developing high-quality technical skills, while helping employers grow through access to world-class talent.
Both Automation and Mechatronics competitions are fully sponsored by industry partners Festo (cyberfactory competition set-up at their Northampton site pictured below, being examined by MDX's Calum Knott), Omron and Amazon.
Ben Blackledge, CEO of WorldSkills UK, said: “Congratulations to this year’s WorldSkills UK national finalists.
Our competitions test learners’ skills against global industry standards.
With employers all over the UK crying out for high-quality skills, this is a fantastic opportunity for hundreds of learners to show they are ready to work.”
The Middlesex students taking part in the 2025 WorldSkills UK finals are - Myu Shin, Oluwatunmise Shuaibu, Mohamed Badr and Samuel Ayesigwa (Automation); Carlos Ariel Huallpa Fernandez and Naveen Gunasekaran (Industry 4.0 - pictured in group photo above); Priyansh Gupta, Nifesh Chakubaji (Cybersecurity) and Omar Maaouane Veiga and Tamunormiete Manuel (Mechatronics).
Find out more about studying BEng Design Engineering at MDX

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/news/2025/7/interior-architecture-award:
Students work together to re-design spaces at church in north west London facing demolition
Third year BA Interior Architecture students have collectively been recognised by the respected higher education forum Interior Educators for their vision to re-design a north west London church facing demolition.
This is the third year in a row that Middlesex University has won the award.
Over 30 students worked as a team and together with church and community members to produce ideas to enhance St Mary’s Church in Eversholt Street, Somers Town, for local residents and other groups.
Individual Middlesex students also enjoyed success at the awards.
Two students won honours in the progressing students’ category of the Interior Futures Award: Interior Architecture student Yi Xuan Lim and Interior Design student Bryony Johnson.
Meanwhile, two third year Interior Architecture students received Highly Commended recognitions: Seungho Cho in the Creative Reuse category and Naura Ayu Vierananda in the Social Justice Award category.
Interior Educators is a respected forum established by academics on well-established Interiors courses across the UK, while the Collaborative Practice Award recognises exceptional projects which explore collaboration and group working across programmes, disciplines or with external organisations, illustrating innovative ways of working and sharing ideas.
“The Collaborative Practice Award is a particularly meaningful recognition as it celebrates the outstanding work of the entire Year 3 Interior Architecture cohort."
Dr Francesca Murialdo, Director of Programmes in Interior Architecture and Design
Dr Murialdo added: "We’re also delighted that this is the third year in a row that Middlesex has won in this category after collaborations involving our first year students were recognised in 2023 and 2024.”
Students worked for several months on designs to reimagine the possible future of the church which is under threat due to rising maintenance costs.
They produced ideas for architectural changes after research into the area’s heritage and community needs, as well as considering the existing building’s historic structure alongside its role as a place of worship and important community asset.
Together with their University tutors, they designed and installed an exhibition in the church earlier this year to showcase their proposals.
To capture community feedback, both an online account and a physical comments table were provided at the exhibition.
Their models were created with the help of the University’s workshop technicians in line with the University’s sustainability goals.
The students produced designs with a variety of uses, such as a ‘permanent archive’ to preserve and build upon the church’s heritage, an ‘escapism space’ where visitors could relax and de-stress, and a ‘hospitality’ space where they could meet over a meal.
Students also designed different entrances to the church, combined with light-filled ‘upper rooms’ to avoid wasting space.
Father Paschal Worton, Parish Priest of St Mary’s Church, said: “The exhibition opened our minds to fresh visions for the church.
I was impressed and moved by the level of care and detail that went into every section.
This stemmed from the research gleaned from real contact with the Somers Town community and resulted in a huge variety of options.
“Every design reflected a desire to value and celebrate our local identity, histories, stories and values.
It was heartening to see the beautiful designs of different kinds of spaces for counselling, confession and individual or small group work.”
Meanwhile, Interior Architecture student Yi Xuan Lim was recognised in the Interior Futures category for designing ‘Stillwater Circle’, a one-stop essentials and communal space for the barge community on the River Thames.
After conducting research that found renting in London is so expensive that more people might choose to live on barges, Yi Xuan took as her inspiration the London Canal Museum in the King’s Cross area of the city.
The project is a practical hub for essentials such as groceries and boat repair items, and a communal space for meetings or to watch films using drawings and 3D models.
Interior Design Student Bryony Johnson was recognised for her project which explored the reimagining of environments such as housing, workplaces and retail, with a focus on combining sustainability, community focus, and innovative design to boost local economies.
She drew her inspiration from upcycling and using second-hand materials for her designs.
Dr Murialdo said: “This recognition reinforces our growing reputation at Middlesex University, not only among peer institutions, but also with prospective students considering Interior Architecture and Interior Design as their chosen path.
“These awards are as much a celebration of the incredible talent and commitment of our students as they are a recognition of the collaborative excellence of our staff, including our brilliant technical team, whose support is fundamental to everything we do.”
Building on the momentum of last year’s success, this year’s winners were among 16 shortlisted entries across six major award categories for Middlesex University.
Find out about Studying BA Interior Architecture and BA Interior Design at Middlesex University.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/news/2025/7/dream-level-award-for-mdxs-lotte-siu-at-dad-new-blood-festival:
16 July 2025
Middlesex University Illustration graduate has won a Portfolio Award at a flagship event for emerging talent in Design, Advertising, Animation and allied disciplines
Lotte Siu, who seeks in her practice to celebrate and preserve the culture and stories of her native Hong Kong, was one of five Illustration students nationally to receive a Portfolio Award at D&AD’s annual New Blood Festival .
She had also been commissioned through the Adobe Creative Apprenticeship programme by event sponsor Adobe to devise the official festival bandana, producing a witty, colourful design with London landmarks and animals skateboarding and playing guitar.
“D&AD has always been a dream-level award for me, so the whole experience was both surreal and joyful,” Lotte says of her festival triumph.
“Being commissioned by Adobe to design the bandana was a total surprise.
Seeing people wear my work around the festival was magical."
She gave a “huge thank you” to her lecturers Aldous Eveleigh, Louise Weir , Martin Ursell and Prof.
Phil Cleaver.
“The Illustration course created a really nurturing space that encouraged experimentation and deep thinking.
I appreciated having access to so many facilities and workshops; the tutors challenged me to step outside my comfort zone while also offering realistic, practical advice about the industry.
I especially appreciated the life drawing sessions - they really helped sharpen my observation and drawing skills which are the foundation of my practice."
Lotte Siu, MDX Illustration student
Previously Lotte was shortlisted for the 2025 Penguin Cover Design Award to celebrate the publisher’s 90th anniversary.
At the MDX Degree Show Festival, she won £500 first prize in a competition organised by children’s comic The Phoenix.
Middlesex’s stand, showcasing work by students from five courses – Illustration; Graphic Design; Fashion Communication & Styling; Advertising, PR & Branding; and Digital Media & Communications – also left an impression by quietly but uncompromisingly championing sustainable design.
All the work and display panels were printed, following research by lecturers Alun Davies (Fashion Communication & Styling) and Michael Wright (Graphic Design), on biodegradable Alga Carta paper, created using algae which has been damaging the ecosystem of the Venice lagoon.
Alga Carta is made at an Italian paper mill that uses electricity produced from renewable sources and offsets unavoidable emissions.
The work was printed on Risograph printers which use a sustainable ink, then put up with pins.
The trestle tables on the stand were repurposed, furniture and materials delivered to site in an electric van, and Middlesex staff pledged to keep to a plant-based diet during the three days of the show.
Students’ projects embraced the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), including those relating to gender equality and inclusivity of LGBTQIA+ people, with symbols under the submissions showing how each met at least one or two of the UN goals.
Fashion Communication and Styling lecturer Helen Delany adds that her students’ striking photographic work demonstrates the breadth of their skills: “futuristic-looking portfolios that showcase emerging technologies, using AI embedded in Photoshop and other software”, complemented by mastery of “more old school approaches to design”.
“We live in a digital age, but there are still real-life props, styling and working on shoots that involve reality,” Helen says.
“We see a trend for student interest in print and analogue,” adds colleague Alun Davies.
Helen started her career winning a design award while still a student.
She keeps reminding her own students of the relevance and importance of design competitions, encouraging them to “enter so you have a chance!”
The New Blood festival is a “bridge between industry and students,” she says.
“The atmosphere is inclusive and friendly and there’s sharing of ideas."
Illustration lecturer Louise Weir says, “I don’t think some students could believe the access they could get to industry” at New Blood.
“Adobe really wanted to get young talent, and set up collaboration with academics." The three day festival, held at Protein Studios in Shoreditch, featured talks, portfolio reviews and open house sessions with agencies, plus the presentation of coveted D&AD ‘pencils’ to early career creatives starting their journey in industry.
Graphic Design graduate Raiyaan Omar said: "It was such a fun experience.
There were so many incredibly talented creatives showcasing their work, and I was proud to have mine exhibited."
Fashion Communications graduate Shaquille Stewart says his final year had been a “whirlwind”.
In his portfolio, “there’s some work that is vulnerable and emotional and others are playful and fun – I can do both”.
Middlesex has “offered a sense of community, especially creative community,” Shaquille says.
“You can go to any department and know you’re going to get help – there’s no hostility to cross-collaboration." Shaquille has personally done projects involving partnerships with music, wood-working, Fashion Marketing and the School of Film.
Find out more about studying BA Illustration or BA Fashion Communication & Styling at Middlesex University.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/news/2025/7/ma-interiors-north-finchley-project:
14 July 2025
MA students brainstorm ideas with local residents to improve underused buildings and spaces for community
Middlesex University’s MA Interiors students and staff hosted a workshop for local residents to explore the redesign of underused and unloved buildings and spaces in North Finchley.
Four students took part in the workshop at North Finchley Library which brought together residents, community groups, sixth form students and planning experts as part of the London Festival of Architecture, Barnet Climate Action Month, and London Climate Action Week.
Michael Westthorp, MA Interiors Programme Leader at Middlesex University, said: “This part of North London is about to undergo large-scale development and we wanted to facilitate a two-way dialogue between Middlesex University and Barnet residents in our unique position of being both part of the borough and having an international perspective on the planning issues affecting residents.
“The University is also integral to the communities around us and we seek to collaborate with local residents and stakeholders to make a positive contribution to the local area.”
Using a strategy of ‘Adaptive Reuse’ – repurposing buildings for new uses while retaining their historical or architectural significance – the workshop participants explored the redesign of five urban, unloved and underused buildings and spaces: Nether Street, North Finchley Bus Garage, the Tally Ho Triangle, The Grand Arcade, and parts of Victoria Park.
Apart from Victoria Park, they are all areas identified for redevelopment in a planning document published by London Borough of Barnet.
A large three-dimensional model of Finchley recorded attendees feedback, with participants attaching cards with their ideas for improvement to the model.
Residents then worked with the students to use Artificial Intelligence tools to co-design the future uses of the five buildings and spaces.
Students also presented their course work, which involved designs for spaces in North Finchley, to the workshop participants through a pop-up exhibition and they plan to incorporate some of the ideas from the workshop into their MA projects.
After taking part in the workshop, the students reflected on what they had learned as well as contributed and a number of them said it would make them better designers.
Student Agatha Kho said: “Thanks to the engagement of the North Finchley attendees who shared their thoughts and concerns, and to Michael for creating a welcoming space to share ideas, I feel inspired to become a more thoughtful, community-centred designer.”
“After working on the area for almost a year on my course, it was eye-opening to hear directly from the local community - to understand what they love, what they want to change, and what they feel should stay untouched.
As designers, we often propose from our perspective, but this interaction gave me a much-needed, real-world view.
I really enjoyed engaging with the community and gaining fresh ideas through their lens.”
Student Afifa A Islam
Local residents also felt the workshop was a success and resulted in a number of perceptive ideas for the redevelopment of North Finchley.
Michael Levitsky, a member of The Finchley Society’s Planning Committee who attended the workshop, said: “The workshop was extremely interesting and useful.
As a local resident involved in civic issues, I was fascinated to see the students' ideas about how our town centre could be improved.”
Local resident Alison Warner said: “I found the content very interesting.
The idea of some of our heritage buildings being retained and repurposed was excellent and most welcome.
I loved the AI image of the triangle near the Tally Ho pub.”
The North Finchley workshop follows on from similar work by Interior Architecture students in the Kilburn Lab project which involved workshops, talks and events gathering information for exhibitions that enabled visitors to explore Kilburn’s past, present and future through the eyes of its community.
Find out more about studying MA Interiors at Middlesex University.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/news/2025/7/barnet-school-waste-solutions-project:
More than 600 pupils took part in the competition which promoted sustainable living during Barnet Climate Action Month
Entrepreneurial schoolchildren in Barnet have come up with innovative solutions to reduce waste in the borough's schools.
More than 600 pupils developed the ideas through an enterprise and sustainability competition funded by St George PLC and in partnership with Middlesex University as part of Barnet Climate Action Month in June.
Year 8 children from Hendon School, St James Catholic High School and Copthall School attended a day of workshops and activities at Middlesex's facilities in StoneX stadium, before submitting final ideas to combat school waste which could be realistically rolled out across the borough.
The winning team were from Hendon School which proposed borough-wide school uniform recycle and repair hubs.
Mina Balijagic from Middlesex University’s sustainability team believed the project could be implemented with help from Fashion student volunteers.
“It is essential that young people are equipped with the skills and knowledge to address the challenges of climate change.
This competition empowers them to take ownership of their future by finding innovative and impactful solutions.
We’re proud at Middlesex University to inspire and support the next generation in making a difference in their communities.”
Rabin Doolub from the MDX sustainability team
The runner-up proposal, from Copthall School, for a smart recycling bin including an App and a rewards system has been picked up by St George PLC, which promised to look into a prototype for one of its residential developments.
St George PLC, which funded the project through its Silk Stream Community Fund, also saw potential in St James’ School's idea of composting and growing food for the school canteen, and has pledged to share the proposal with staff who work in urban farming.
Katie Sampford, Senior Sustainability Manager at St George PLC, said: “It was a pleasure to be part of the enterprise competition delivered in partnership with Middlesex University.
Watching the students develop and apply skills that will support them in their future careers was incredibly rewarding, and was exactly what we were aiming to achieve with our Silk Stream Community Fund.
“The quality of their project outcomes was truly impressive, and it was clear that every participant took something meaningful away from the experience—whether it sparked an entrepreneurial ambition or simply a new commitment to sustainability, like proper recycling.”
All of the schools will be invited to see how their ideas will be put into action and kept informed of any developments.
Vanessa Fernandez, a Middlesex University Alumni and entrepreneur who helped design the competition and judged the finalists, said: “Barnet has the largest community of small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) amongst outer London boroughs.
As an entrepreneur operating and living in Barnet I have experienced first-hand the positive impact that cultivating an entrepreneurial environment can have in fostering business growth.
“I believe so much more can be achieved when key organisations combine efforts.
To see a large corporation like St George’s actively engaging with and supporting the local community at grassroots level is truly admirable and I hope that this will motivate others to follow.” Teachers interested in working with Middlesex University to support their students can sign up to newsletters .

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/news/2025/7/wimbledon-tennis-lta-placements:
9 July 2025
Two Middlesex University students have been on placement with the LTA helping top players and coaches at major tournaments including Wimbledon
With Wimbledon in full swing, two students on the MSc Sport Performance Analysis course at Middlesex University helped British tennis players at the tournament with crucial data insights about their opponents.
Will Rousham and Danny Anderson have been on a unique placement with the Lawn Tennis Association (LTA) as part of their course which has included working at the world famous annual tennis competition which runs until this Sunday July 13th.
Through the studentship with the national governing body for British tennis, they have worked alongside top professional coaches and players, as well as expert data analysts.
Both Will and Danny have been regularly using vital industry data applications such as Dartfish and PowerBI to collect and visualise data respectively which they can then share with professional players to help them get the edge over their opponents.
“I have learnt the detail that goes into pre-match preparation for elite tennis players, as well as the necessity to plan one or two rounds ahead of time,” said Danny, who is studying on campus and from St Albans.
“It has made me watch tennis in a different way and look out for the key stats which separates the men and women at the top of the game.
Having the opportunity to be in the player lounge at the Nottingham Open showed me how live feedback can help players gain that extra 1%.”
A personal highlight for Danny was meeting British tennis player Katie Boulter, while he has also had the opportunity to work with the pathway teams looking for the next Andy Murray, Cameron Norrie or Jack Draper at a tournament in Sunderland.
He said the course has helped him upskill and gained essential skills with data software.
“The highlight of my year has definitely been supporting British players during the grass court season.
It has a been busy yet fulfilling time, and it makes it especially rewarding when a player gets a big win which you helped prep for.
Having supported the players remotely, it has been great to see them in person and have an impact on at Nottingham, Queens and Wimbledon.”
MSc Sport Performance Analysis student Danny Anderson
Meeting Leon Smith, the Great Britain Davis Cup captain, was a particular highlight for fellow MDX student Will.
“Throughout the year I have spent with the LTA, I believe that this placement has not only provided me with the knowledge and skillset needed to progress my career in the sports performance analysis sector, but it has provided me with the hands-on experience required for work life beyond the placement,” said Will, who is originally from Cheshire and on the Distance Learning option.
British tennis stars such as Jack Draper (world no.4), Jacob Fearnley and Billy Harris have been provided with data insights about their opponents from Will at tournaments such as Queens, Eastbourne and Wimbledon.
Describing it as a valuable live experience, Will also sat alongside the coaching teams of British players of Billy Harris and Johannus Monday during games.
And he supported pathway coaches at an under 14s tournament by capturing and uploading footage.
“The highlight of this placement has been the time I spent away at tournaments supporting our British players throughout the grass court season.
I had the privilege of attending the ATP Challenger event in Ilkley with the men’s analyst.
During this time I was able to really experience the role from a hands on perspective.”
MSc Sport Performance Analysis student Will Rousham
Dr Nimai Parmar, Director of Postgraduate Sport Programmes (Interim) and Associate Professor in Sport Performance Analysis, said: “I am grateful for the LTA’s long-standing commitment to developing the next generation of performance analysts in collaboration with us at Middlesex University.
For five years our students have learnt from world class analysts in a high-performance environment, whilst supporting top British players.
As a result of this they secure full-time jobs soon after within the LTA and at top sporting organisations which is a testament to how well these collaborations work”.
Toby West, Performance Analyst from the LTA (women’s program), said:
"This unique placement programme offers students an immersive and practical experience, mentored by industry-leading performance analysts.
Working with some of the top tennis players and coaches in Britain, students apply their academic learning in a high-performance environment, developing the core technical and analytical skills essential to build a career in performance analysis.
“Working across multiple teams, the students gain exposure to the demands of elite sport and are empowered to contribute to meaningful, real-world projects.
From video analysis to data interpretation, students become proficient in using the specialist software and workflows that drive high-level decision making in sport.
“Through tailored mentoring and day-to-day involvement in the department’s work, students gain the confidence and capability to operate in a front-facing analyst role.
By the end of the placement, they leave with not just improved technical expertise, but with the communication, problem-solving, and collaborative skills that set them up for success in the professional world of sport performance analysis."
Find out more about the MSc Sport Performance Analysis course at Middlesex University and the Distance Learning option .
Photo of Wimbledon centre court by Carlo Bazzo on Unsplash

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/news/2025/7/mdx-scores-best-ever-nss-results:
Middlesex ranked 5th out of 31 universities in London for student positivity
Middlesex University’s scores for learning and teaching in the National Student Survey (NSS) have improved again, after its best ever results in 2024.
As well as being ranked 5th out of 31 universities in London, Middlesex also exceeded the Office for Student (OfS) benchmark in six of the seven NSS themes.
Middlesex performed better than the sector average for five out of seven themes.
This ranking excludes small and specialist providers with fewer than 1000 students taking part in the NSS.
These strong results demonstrate that students have an excellent undergraduate experience at the University and highlight the hard work of academics, staff and Middlesex University Students’ Union (MDXSU).
Middlesex had a response rate of 82%, which matches last year’s record response rate, and is much higher than the sector average of 71%.
Key results for MDX include
"These strong results are a real testament to the hard work and dedication of our staff and students.
We are very pleased to have improved our scores for the delivery of our teaching and learning again - after our best ever results in 2024 - especially for our high quality assessment and feedback.
We are also delighted to be above the sector benchmark in six out of seven areas.
Our response rate of 82%, above the sector average, shows that these results represent the views of students across our community.
"This achievement is particularly meaningful because it comes directly from our students themselves, and builds on our recent successes in the Whatuni Student Choice Awards 2025 and Uni Compare Rankings 2026.
These are not just numbers – they tell us that our students think our teaching and support are excellent quality and that we are helping them to develop the skills they need for their futures.
We will build on this momentum as we grow Middlesex's reputation for excellent education, both here in north London and as a global University."
Dr Ellen Buck Pro-Vice Chancellor for Education and Student Experience
A full breakdown of the National Student Survey data is available on the Office for Students website.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/news/2025/7/teaching-degree-apprenticeships:
8 July 2025
Vital new programmes will upskill teaching assistants into fully qualified teachers
Middlesex University has launched a new primary teacher degree apprenticeship to upskill teaching assistants in London into fully qualified teachers as well as providing school-leavers with a chance to earn a salary as they study for a degree and train to teach.
With the University having provided teacher training for more than 60 years, its new Primary Teacher Degree Apprenticeship, which is delivered over four years, combines school and university learning.
The university already provides a successful one-year Post Graduate Teacher Apprenticeship  for both primary and secondary schools.
Both programmes can be funded through the Apprenticeship Levy, a sum paid by employers to invest in apprenticeship training.
Meanwhile, Middlesex University is also launching digital degree apprenticeship programmes to address the growing employer demand for digital skills in the workplace.
Designed to bridge the digital skills gap, promote social inclusion and increase productivity across sectors ranging from hospitality to legal, the six programmes span cyber security and data science through to digital marketing and user experience.
The launch of the teaching training programmes is timely, with research from the National Foundation for Educational Research showing that London has the highest rate of teacher shortages in primary schools.
Middlesex University has worked with more than 500 schools, colleges and settings in most London boroughs and across the South East.
Many of these partnerships are connected to its Initial Teacher Training (ITT) provision including the employment-based ITT routes, which allows schools, working with an accredited provider, to recruit and select their own trainees.
“Our new teacher degree apprenticeship programmes are launching at a pivotal time for the profession, with a growing number of schools across London and the South East experiencing teacher shortages or struggling to attract and retain top talent."
Professor Darryll Bravenboer, Director of Business and Civic Engagement at Middlesex University
“The apprenticeship programmes enable schools to nurture and grow their own workforce and mould apprentices to their exact needs.
The Primary Teacher Degree Apprenticeship is specifically designed for schools that want to retain talented teaching or learning support assistants by training them to be fully qualified teachers.
Those apprentices benefit from the financial security of being able to earn while they learn," added Prof Bravenboer.
“The new teaching apprenticeships are also proven to increase social mobility, providing apprentices from underserved communities with the opportunity to qualify as a teacher, have a clear career pathway and realise their full earning potential within the profession.”
Schools and Local Education Authorities which are interested in Middlesex University’s new Teaching Degree Apprenticeship programmes starting in September can register their interest.
Find out more about studying for a Degree Apprenticeship at Middlesex University.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/news/2025/7/stowe-family-law-prize-:
Middlesex University’s School of Law has announced that Stowe Family Law will sponsor a prize recognising outstanding student achievement
A Middlesex University student will get the chance to work at a leading family law specialist as part of an exciting new partnership.
MDX’s School of Law has announced it will be working with Stowe Family Law to offer an exceptional student valuable work experience in the industry.
Stowe Family Law will sponsor a prize recognising outstanding academic achievement.
This prize will be awarded to the undergraduate law student who demonstrates exceptional performance in the Child and Family Law module, specifically in the component of the final assessment that requires the application of legal principles to complex, simulated case scenarios.
This reflects the School of Law’s strong emphasis on practice-based learning.
The award recognises not only academic excellence but also the winning student’s readiness for legal practice.
The winning student will undertake a two-day work experience placement at Stowe Family Law’s Camden office.
“This award offers valuable exposure to the day-to-day work of a specialist family law firm, and represents a unique opportunity to the winning student to enhance their understanding of the profession and gain practical experience in a real-world legal environment.
We are extremely grateful to Stowe Family Law for their generous support and for sharing our commitment to nurturing the next generation of family law professionals."
Alex Patrick, a Lecturer in Law and LLB Programme Leader
A spokesperson for Stowe Family Law said: "We're thrilled to be able to provide the Stowe prize for another year and inspiring the next generation of law professionals means a lot to us.
The Stowe prize gives the winning student the recognition they deserve for achieving legal excellence within their studies.
This gives students the opportunity of a cash prize, or to work in the Stowe Family Law office to gain real world experience working in a law firm."
Photo by Tingey Injury Law Firm on Unsplash
Find out more about Stowe Family Law

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/news/2025/6/graduation-2025:
23 June 2025
Recipients recognised with honorary degrees for contributions that exemplify University’s values and vision
Middlesex University is celebrating exceptional individuals who have made a lasting impact to their profession and a difference to society during this week’s Graduation ceremonies.
Honorary degrees are being awarded to eight people for achievements in a wide range of areas and disciplines that include fashion, sporting success, disability awareness, patient advocacy, diversity and inclusion in literature, law, business, educational accessibility and advancement, and mental health in the workplace.
The University’s Graduation ceremonies celebrate the success, hard work and resilience of MDX students, and almost 14,000 students (including some 2,700 partner students who studied elsewhere and had their degrees validated by MDX) were invited to attend at the Hendon campus.
Graduation is also an opportunity for the University to recognise and say thank you to former students, staff, community workers, and leaders in their profession who have made a difference to their field and to society in a way that aligns with the University’s commitment to educational opportunity, inclusivity, social impact, and innovation.
Commenting on the Awards, Middlesex University’s Vice-Chancellor Professor Shân Wareing said: “We’re delighted that these distinguished individuals have accepted Middlesex University’s recognition of their wonderful contributions in their respective fields and communities across the creative arts, law and business, disability awareness, diversity and inclusion, patient advocacy, mental health, education, charity work and more."
“It gives me great pleasure to hear their inspiring stories, to welcome them to our Middlesex community during our graduation ceremonies, and to be able to honour and thank them for their exceptional achievements.”
Middlesex University’s Vice-Chancellor Professor Shân Wareing
From the world of fashion, honorary degrees are being awarded to Middlesex University alumni Martine Rose, a menswear designer who has received international acclaim, and Roxy Murray, a fashion stylist and tireless advocate for disability rights including for people with multiple sclerosis.
Also a powerful advocate for patients and the disabled, especially people with hearing loss, is Stella O’ Brien who is a pioneering researcher in digital technology and a respected contributor to health and social care research.
Roxy, a Middlesex graduate who described the University as having a ‘pivotal role’ in shaping who she is today, said: “As someone living boldly with Multiple Sclerosis, championing disability rights, adaptive fashion, and radical inclusivity, receiving an honorary degree is a powerful affirmation that lived experience, creative advocacy, and unapologetic authenticity are not just valid but worthy of celebration.”
Montell Douglas, a Middlesex University alumna, is a record-breaking athlete and advocate for inclusion in sport, whose multifaceted career has spanned elite athletics, public service, coaching, and motivational speaking.
Outside of competing, she has appeared as "Fire" in the 2024 BBC One reboot of Gladiators , and was a contestant on the BBC’s Strictly Come Dancing .
Businessman and former Army officer Tim Boughton, meanwhile, is being honoured as a passionate advocate for mental health reform and for his internationally-recognised work with veterans and emergency service personnel living with post-traumatic stress disorder.
Tim, who first went to university in his 50s, has taken an interest in Middlesex since delivering a Distinguished Lecture at the University and welcomed how health and wellbeing formed a key role in its strategic vision.
His advice to current students was to embrace failure as well as success to become resilient.
“Make your own way, rely on your instincts and remember that you are not above anyone else – you will be graded on that in life,” he said.
A respected figure in global finance, business leader Sindi Mabaso-Koyana is recognised for transforming the landscape of accountancy in her home country of South Africa and opening the doors for generations of black women professionals, while revered British author, literary consultant, and cultural historian Sandra A Agard has been a lifelong champion of Black British literature, African-Caribbean oral traditions, and inclusive education.
A globally respected leader in education with experience from senior positions in higher education across three continents, Sue Cunningham is recognised for her lifelong commitment to educational advancement to transform lives and society.
Lastly, Professor David Sugarman is a distinguished legal scholar and educator who has played a significant role in the development of legal education and was centrally involved in establishing Middlesex University’s School of Law, helping to shape its identity and academic vision.
The University also celebrated the start of Graduation Week by welcoming to its campus headteachers and college principals from across Barnet.
Together they will celebrate the contribution that local schools make towards preparing students for university, as well as the launch of Middlesex’s Lifelong Learning pathway, a new initiative which guarantees places and interviews to university applicants from the Borough of Barnet.
Local educators will also have the chance to meet Middlesex alumna and internationally acclaimed fashion designer Martine Rose.
Of the 13,917 students, including partner students, invited to attend this week’s ceremonies, 9,572 are undergraduate students, 4,202 are postgraduates, while 143 are doctoral students.
Medallists
Every year, the University awards Middlesex Medals to individuals for their outstanding contributions to the community and the University’s values.
This year the recipients are:
Professor Brenda Barrett, an Emeritus Professor at Middlesex University whose award will be posthumously accepted by her daughter Jenny Barrett, was a distinguished legal academic and barrister whose work in occupational health and safety law left a lasting legacy in legal education and practice.
Professor Antonia Bifulco, who is founder and director of the Centre for Abuse and Trauma Studies at Middlesex University, is a leading psychologist and academic whose pioneering research in trauma, attachment, and abuse has significantly advanced mental health care and social policy.
Mr Paul Butler, Chief Executive Officer, of the Selby Trust, a north London community hub supporting the Black, Asian and minority ethnic (BAME) community, is a respected leader in London’s voluntary and community sectors.
Mr Ben Morrison has made an enduring impact on student life at Middlesex University through his dedicated service as Chair of the Students’ Union Board of Trustees, playing a critical role in transforming the Students’ Union into a more student-led, inclusive, and resilient organization aligned with the needs of its diverse membership.
Reverend Dr Julie Gittoes, vicar of St Mary’s and Christ Church in Barnet and Area Dean of the Diocese of London, is a dynamic faith leader, academic collaborator, and community builder who has made substantial contributions to the spiritual and cultural life of north London and Middlesex University.
Senior Rabbi Jonathan Wittenberg OBE, one of the UK’s most respected religious leaders, is widely admired for his interfaith advocacy, environmental leadership, and inclusive approach to faith in public life.
As Senior Rabbi of Masorti Judaism in the UK, he has dedicated his life to fostering understanding and unity across communities.
Find out more about our Honorary Graduates .

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/events/undergraduate-clearing-campus-tours:
Monday 18 August 2025 - Monday 18 August 2025 , 
                          10:30 AM
                          – 3:00 PM
Join us on campus to secure your place through Clearing with advice and guidance from our friendly academics and students on hand to show you the campus.
Take a look at our programme to prepare for the day.
Looking to secure your place at university after results day?
Come and join us on campus Monday 18 August.
Whether you already have an offer from us or applying through Clearing, we’re here to help.
Our friendly team will be on hand to answer all your questions about applying, funding and welfare.
You’ll get to meet your future lecturers and chat with current students, explore your course, and take a tour of the state-of-the-art facilities you could soon be studying in.
It’s the perfect opportunity to explore your options and make that final decision.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/events/postgraduate-open-event:
Tuesday 9 September 2025 - Tuesday 9 September 2025 , 
                          5:00 PM
                          – 7:30 PM
Whether you're aiming to advance your career, change direction, or deepen your understanding in your chosen field, our postgraduate event is the perfect place to start your journey.
Book now
We're postgraduate student ambassadors here at Middlesex and we're here to tell you why you should come along to our next postgraduate virtual open evening.
When you study your master's here your course has a professional focus so you get what you need to make your next big career move.
Like getting a big job, starting your own business or becoming an expert in your area.
Plus you get lots of career advice and we're only 20 minutes away from central London.
To hear more come along to the open evening and you can join our live subject talks and Q &As to find out everything you want to know about your chosen subject.
Join live sessions about funding careers, academic and well -being support and ask questions.
Join our live chat with academics and student support team who will be online throughout the event.
Hear from students and alumni about what it's really like to study here.
Check out our campus online by joining our virtual tour and exploring our award -winning facilities.
So book your place now!
We can't wait to see you there!
Everything you need is here so you can try new things, gain new skills and make the most of your time at uni and in London.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/events/undergraduate-open-day:
Sunday 12 October 2025 - Sunday 12 October 2025 , 
                          9:30 AM
                          – 3:00 PM
Experience our world-class facilities, explore our vibrant campus, and discover why we are a Top 6 UK university (THE University Rankings 2024).
It's Middlesex University's Open Day.
Come, check it out.
See you next time.
Learn about the Middlesex community.
Connect with our friendly academics, students and support teams about everything from subjects to careers and financial support.
Explore our £200m world-class subject facilities, social spaces and our on-campus student halls on our tours.
Experience our interactive subject taster sessions.
Also, hear from our alumni about how Middlesex helped their career paths and our award-winning careers team.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/events/cpd-outreach-day:
Friday 21 November 2025 - Friday 21 November 2025 , 
                          9:00 AM
                          – 3:30 PM
Mixing traditional animation techniques with digital tools.
Get hands on with stop motion techniques and see where traditional mediums are headed in the future with a non-technical introduction to AI’s impact on the creative industries.
In this workshop, participants will learn how to scan student models and how to import the scans into Adobe Aero, where they’ll create a short video projecting the model into a space.
An introductory workshop covering practical uses for artificial intelligence in the creative process and some of the pitfalls.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/events/undergraduate-open-day-november:
Saturday 29 November 2025 - Saturday 29 November 2025 , 
                          9:30 AM
                          – 3:00 PM

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-story/education:
We are recognised for our high-quality education with a Silver Award for Teaching Excellence (Office for Students, 2023), and as the students’ choice with 1 st in London, 2 nd in the UK for University of the Year (Whatuni Student Choice Awards 2025) and 1 st in the UK for Course Quality (Uni Compare Rankings 2025).
Our multi-disciplinary approach means students can follow their passion across a wide range of subjects, knowing that we will support them to make a valuable contribution to society and the economy through their specialism.
Our students learn through activities and hands-on experience with real projects, industry placements, and networking with global leaders.
We have built our courses alongside industry professionals to ensure our graduates are career-ready from day one, and equipped to continue learning throughout their lives.
Our industry partners include Google, ASOS, Disney, Deloitte, NHS Trusts, and the Metropolitan Police.
Our teaching is underpinned by research that focuses on the critical issues facing our world today , including social justice, sustainability and mental wellbeing.
We show students how they can act on global challenges to create a brighter future for all.
Our graduates achieve remarkable results with a degree that has real value.
We are 2nd in the UK for Graduate Earnings Growth ( The Telegraph 2024) - faster than almost anywhere else - and 1st in the UK for Employability (Uni Compare Rankings 2025).
Beyond a degree that opens doors, we help students to become the best version of themselves.
We develop eight key attributes in our graduates that are informed by input from employers, students and staff: Communication empathy and inclusion, Leadership and influence, Entrepreneurship, Curiosity and learning, Collaborative innovation, Resilience and adaptability, Technological agility, and problem solving.
Our students become the talent that helps our local employers succeed.
They apply their advanced knowledge and skills to real-world and work-based projects that benefit our regions and make our North London community into a more welcoming and inspiring place.
Through our network of over 1,000 industry partnerships and our skills-based learning approach, we develop career-ready graduates who make an immediate impact in organisations across the world.
Our North London campus is home to some of the UK's best spaces for learning, creating and collaborating, and winner of the best university facilities in the UK (Whatuni Student Choice Awards 2025).
These world-class facilities put us ahead of other universities and many professional settings, including our Hollywood standard motion capture suite for animation and augmented reality teaching equipment for nursing and midwifery.
We also make the most of our location – just 15 minutes travel to Camden or 25 minutes to King's Cross – with opportunities for students to expand their career prospects and discover a new social life.
Each of our global campuses is distinctive with an international reputation for excellence.
We received a 5-star rating in Dubai (KHDA Higher Education Classification 2022) and we were the first UK campus university in Mauritius.
We also have a location in Minzu.
Our students benefit from our international outlook and opportunities as they go out into the global workplace.
With students from more than 140 countries, our London campus is more than just a place to study – it is where community, connection, and unforgettable experiences come to life.
We are 1 st in London, 4 th in the UK for Student Life (Whatuni Student Choice Awards 2025) and 21 st globally for International Outlook ( Times Higher Education Young University Rankings 2024).
This global perspective and community opens our students’ worlds and their futures.
Our students feel supported, motivated and part of something bigger.
We respond to the diversity of our students’ backgrounds and genuinely care about their wellbeing and success throughout their journey.
This has made us 5 th out of 31 London universities for student positivity and also 5 th in London for listening to students and acting on feedback (National Student Survey 2025).
Whatever pathway through which they come to us, we empower ambitious students to succeed.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-story/strengthening-our-community:
Across our global campuses, we partner with local government, professions, businesses and charities, to help make our regions inspiring places to learn, work and live.
We understand and respond to the changing needs of our local communities so we can actively strengthen and support them.
Our campuses support the lifelong learning and social mobility of students and apprentices who discover unexpected potential with us and go on to shape their professions and transform communities.
Working with our network of over 1,000 partners – including NHS Trusts, Barnet Education and Learning Service, local charities, and the Metropolitan Police – we prepare our students to move confidently into their future workplace with the work-ready knowledge and skills that local employers need.
Every year, 600 students get entrepreneurial support for business ideas or develop their skills working with business leaders from our network.
Through our connections in London, students learn about financial markets from the London Trading Institute and football coaching from Tottenham Hotspur FC Women, while our partnerships with world-leading automation companies such as Festo, Omron and Siemens, and sector representatives like GAMBICA, help provide London with the next generation of engineers and technicians.
Our partners also help build learning environments on campus, like a smart lab with our partner Festo Didactic that teaches students about AI in the future workplace.
In an exciting initiative, Middlesex University Tax and Accounting Clinic actively involves third-year student volunteers who are supervised by a chartered certified accountant to offer free tax and accounting advice to local charities, small businesses and social enterprises and other members of the local community.
Every year, we work with thousands of students in more than 100 local schools and colleges, supporting them to plan their next steps in higher education, apprenticeships and other routes.
Our academics support local schools to train T-Level Midwifery students and, with the NHS North Central London Training Hub, we host an annual health and social care careers fair for over 300 students.
Also popular is our annual STEM festival which attracts over 500 students from across London to learn more about the opportunities these subjects offer.
We have partnered with Barnet Education and Learning Service for a Lifelong Learning Agreement for all students studying at Barnet schools and colleges.
This commitment guarantees that we will interview or offer a place to one of our courses to every student at a Barnet school or college who has completed our package of support activities and meets the course criteria at the University.
We celebrate diversity and champion social mobility through initiatives and events that bring people together in our welcoming, sustainable and inclusive spaces.
The University hosts thousands of people from the local community at interfaith celebrations, public lectures, performances, business breakfasts, exhibitions and public celebrations every year from the Big Iftar to STEM Festival.
Every year we train over 1,700 nurses and midwives, 3,000 police officers and hundreds of teachers and social workers.
Our students and graduates become the professionals who keep London's essential services running and we are integral to the delivery of public services across London.
Our £23M virtual hospital at Saracens Rugby Club StoneX Stadium has cutting edge simulation-based skills facilities to train nurses and midwives for emergency care.
Our nursing and midwifery students also gain invaluable real-life experience through the 5,000 placements available, supporting 18 NHS Trusts across London.
We work in partnership to best support and serve our local communities.
Our award-winning partnership with the North Central London Integrated Care System delivers professional training to adult social care nurses, as well as supports student placements.
We are also a founding member of the Healthcare Education Consortium, a group of seven universities and NHS Trusts co-designing training programmes and tackling staff shortages.
Our 20 leading degree apprenticeship programmes train much needed professionals for London and the South East.
We train apprentice police officers as part of of the award-winning Police Education Consortium, in collaboration with Canterbury Christ Church University, the University of Cumbria and the University of Portsmouth.
Our other apprenticeship programmes include nursing, social work, teaching, environmental health, healthcare science, sales, management, digital design and environmental health.
We are recognised as a global leader in tacking inequalities through education, ranking 8th globally for Reduced Inequalities under the UN's Sustainable Development Goal 10.
We take pride in helping our community access higher education and graduate-level career opportunities so they can achieve more throughout their lives, and working with local people to make our local region into a more inspiring place to live.
Our key initiatives include the Barnet Lifelong Learning Agreement, which guarantees interviews for local students, and a collaboration between our master's students and local residents to revitalise underused community spaces.
Through this work, we actively support social mobility for disadvantaged groups and promote equality in education.
We are strong advocates for the benefits of our industry-informed education.
We bring the University’s expertise, research and experience to the UK policy-making process at local, London and national level.
We always focus on the best possible outcomes for students and wider society, like promoting interfaith dialogue and tackling hate on campus, improving support for student mental health and how the apprenticeship system works.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-story/policy-public-affairs:
Middlesex University engages with external partners, political stakeholders, policy makers and influencers at local, London, national and international level.
We bring the University’s expertise, research and experience to the policy-making process to ensure the best possible outcomes for students and wider society.
Some of our recent work includes a case study on how London universities are driving global climate action , a policy note on the experiences of international students in London and awareness-raising around student drug use .
Please contact Policy and Public Affairs Manager Patrick Hague for more information.
You might also like

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/chancellor:
Dame Janet, our Chancellor, is a prominent academic and musician with a global reputation as a champion of the arts.
She acts as a ceremonial figure-head of the University.
Dame Janet has an important ambassadorial role in representing the University to external audiences to help build support for our mission.
In 2013, Middlesex University was proud to hold the inauguration of our third Chancellor Dame Janet Ritterman.
Janet is an eminent pianist, accompanist and academic, who was appointed DBE for her services to music in 2002 Queen's Birthday Honours.
Her impressive background in pedagogy and far-reaching research made her a natural choice for this important position.
A former Director of the Royal College of Music London, where she is now a Vice-President, and a former Principal of Dartington College of Arts, Janet has brought a wealth of experience to her role as Chancellor.
As pianist and accompanist, she specialised in working with singers, in chamber music performance and in the training of gifted performers.
Alongside her activities as performer, Janet was from the outset committed to teaching and to research.
She has produced national reports on orchestral provision and opera training and has delivered addresses on music and music education at national and international conferences.
She remains engaged in research into aspects of music pedagogy and repertoire.
Janet has taught in universities, colleges, schools and Saturday music centres, and has designed and run undergraduate and postgraduate courses in music and in music education.
Her first post in higher education was at Middlesex, where she joined the staff in 1975, and contributed to the development of the BA in Performing Arts, the first such course I the UK, before moving to Goldsmiths, where she designed and led the first Masters degree programme in Music Performance.
In the course of her career, she has served as an adviser, reviewer and external examiner for numerous institutions in the UK, in Australia and New Zealand and in several European countries.
Her relationship with Austrian higher education in particular has been long standing.
When the Austrian Government established its Science Council to advise on higher education, Janet was appointed as a founder member.
She subsequently became the first Chair of the international board for Austria’s national Research Council programme for research in the arts.
In 2016, in recognition of her services to Austrian higher education and cultural life, Janet was awarded the Austrian Ehrenkreuz (1.
Klasse) für Wissenschaft und Kunst.
She continues to serve on several trusts connected with music, the arts and education and is Chairman of the Anglo-Austrian Society, a grant-giving charity which promotes cultural and social exchange and dialogue between the United Kingdom and Austria.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/board-of-governors:
Our Board plays an important non-executive role in the success of the University.
Our Governors are dedicated to the development of our staff, the learning of our students and the growth of the University as a whole.
They are an essential part of our One Middlesex family.
Our current Governors have all made notable contributions to business, academic and public life.
They contribute their professional, specialist and general management skills to drive the development of the University.
Members of the Board bring an independent view to their work so they can hold the Executive to account.
Meet the inspiring individuals who volunteer their time and expertise to Middlesex.
Matt Lewis retired from KPMG in March 2016 having worked there for 30 years and been a partner for 20 years.
He worked in a number of industry sectors, including Fast Moving Consumer Goods, Retail, Leisure, Engineering, Defence and Business Services.
His clients were predominantly large international listed groups.
As well as audit, Matt supported clients on many significant transactions, including IPOs, mergers, acquisitions and disposals.
Matt chairs the Audit, Assurance and Risk Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Matt is also a trustee of the Weald and Downland Museum in Sussex.
Mostaque is currently the Chief Financial Officer and Director for Corporate Services at the London Fire Brigade.
He oversees six departments: Finance; General Counsel; Procurement & Commercial; ICT/Digital; Property & Fleet; Performance Improvement.
Mostaque started his career in the private sector with Ernst & Young and the Royal Bank of Scotland, before joining the Civil Service.
During his time in Whitehall, he worked across several government departments including HM Treasury, Cabinet Office, Department for Transport and the Home Office.
Mostaque was the Managing Director of Finance, Portfolio & Performance for the House of Commons and served as Finance Director at the House of Lords.
For eight years (until July 2025) he chaired the Governing Board of a primary school in Brent.
Simon Darling is the Managing Director of growth agency Jack & Anna.
Clients include multinationals and startups within FMCG, telecoms, financial services, retail and healthcare sectors in both turnaround and high growth situations and PLC and private equity environments.
Simon started his career in Finance at Unilever.
He has been Marketing Director at eBay, VP Marketing at Skype and Chief Commercial Officer at Trainline.
He has founded two startups, one of which, Fonepark, was acquired by an AOL-backed company.
He has a First in Economics from Cambridge University and is a prize winner and Passed Finalist with CIMA.
Professor Mandeep K Dhami is based in the University's Department of Psychology.
She has previously held academic and research positions in the UK (University of Cambridge, University of Surrey), Canada (University of Victoria), USA (University of Maryland) and Germany (Max Planck Institute for Human Development), as well as visiting posts in Spain and Australia.
Mandeep has also worked as a Principal Scientist for the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory (UK Ministry of Defence), and has work experience in British prisons.
Mandeep is an internationally recognised expert on human judgment and decision-making, risk perception and uncertainty communication.
She has authored over 145 scholarly publications and is lead editor of the book ‘Judgment and Decision Making as a Skill’.
Her research has received several international awards including from the European Association for Decision Making, American Psychological Association (Division 9), and NATO Science & Technology Organisation.
Mandeep was awarded Fellowship of the Psychonomics Society, and the Society for the Psychological Study of Social Issues.
She regularly advises Government bodies nationally and internationally on evidence-based policy and practice in the criminal justice and defence & security domains.
Mandeep was previously Chair of the Ethical Standards Committee for Cambridgeshire Police Authority, and Executive board member of the Restorative Justice–City of Victoria Program (BC, Canada).
She is currently Editor of Judgment and Decision Making, UK representative on a NATO research panel, and President of the European Association for Decision Making.
Her hobbies include competitive Ballroom and Latin dancing.
Jonathan is currently the Global Chief Financial Officer for Technology and Operations at Marsh McLennan, a financial and professional services organisation with over 90,000 employees with four major businesses in Marsh, Mercer, Guy Carpenter and Oliver Wyman.
At Middlesex University he is a member of the Finance and Infrastructure Committee.
He trained as a Chartered Accountant with EY, joining as a graduate working in their corporate finance department advising organisations on M&A, Funding and Transformation programmes across public sector, financial services and a variety of other corporate industries.
Since leaving EY as a Director, he has held senior finance positions at HSBC, Capita and Tate & Lyle.
Chris Fenton, after an early international career in chemicals, has focused on infrastructure and services.
Most recently Chris was Chief Executive of the Rail Safety and Standards Board after senior management roles at Amey, Tube Lines and BSI and a non-executive director at the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority.
In education and skills he is currently on the Board of City and Guilds Group.
He was previously chairman of the National Skills Academy for Rail and a Trustee at JTL, a major apprenticeships provider.
Dr David Gilani works at Middlesex University as our Head of Access and Participation, leading on the University’s work to utilise evaluation, interventions and reporting to ensure equitable outcomes for all student groups.
Having started his career as a students’ union officer, he is a strong proponent of the student voice and in 2012 he founded the Student Publication Association, which supports student journalists across the UK and Ireland.
David believes strongly in universities working together to support student engagement efforts.
He is a former chair of the CASE Student Communications conference and co-editor of the Perspectives journal special issue: Student Communications in Higher Education.
He is also a Fellow of the Association of Higher Education Professionals and was a finalist for the Higher Education Professional of the Year Award in 2024 for his work leading their Student Experience and Engagement Network.
He holds a PhD on the topic of student belonging from the University of York, regularly publishing and presenting on area of work.
Dr Nabeel Goheer
Dr Nabeel Goheer, PhD, is PATH’s Chief of Asia, Middle East, Europe (AMEE) Region.
He is responsible for providing strategic leadership and guidance and overseeing program activities in the regional hubs in South Asia, South East Asia, Eastern Europe, Central Asia, China, and Western Europe, as well as PATH’s other projects in the region.
He also develops and executes strategies to expand and grow the AMEE portfolio into new regions, including the Middle East and additional countries in Asia.
Nabeel is a seasoned leader with near 25 years of professional experience.
Before joining PATH, he spent the last ten years assisting and representing the Commonwealth Secretary-General while providing leadership in the areas of strategy, governance, partnerships, portfolio, evaluation, technology, innovation, and digitalization.
Prior to joining the Commonwealth, he worked with the International Labor Organization (ILO) at the United Nations, World Bank, United Nations Development Program, USAID, and the Government of Pakistan.
Nabeel holds a Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering from the University of Engineering and Technology in Lahore, Pakistan, a Master of Arts in International Development from the International University of Japan, a Master of Philosophy in Technology Policy from Cambridge and MIT, and a PhD in Management from the University of Cambridge.
He also holds a Certificate in Macroeconomic Policy and Management from Harvard.
Laura Guittard is currently Vice-President Global Finance Risk Management & Controls and ESG Reporting at GSK.
She oversees the risk management of the enterprise risk ‘Finance Controls & Reporting’ on behalf of the CFO.
Laura has a BA in Business Administration from Strathclyde University.
She qualified as a Chartered Accountant of Scotland and moved to Paris with KPMG.
She then moved to Kraft Foods/Mondelez where she had roles of increasing responsibility and lived in 5 different countries across three continents.
Laura is a strong advocate of meritocracy and in GSK participates or chairs voluntary groups and provides mentoring for women and those just starting their career.
Laura is also a Director of various GSK subsidiaries.
Helen Kelisky brings over 30 years of technology business and sales leadership experience and a track record of driving top line growth, leading national and international businesses.
Previous roles include Managing Director of Google Cloud in the UK and Ireland, Senior Vice President of Cloud sales at Salesforce UKI, and Vice President of Cloud at IBM.
Helen has been recognised as one of the 100 Most Influential Women in UK Tech eight years in a row from 2017 to 2024, as well as one of the most influential leaders in UK Tech in 2023 and 2024.
She currently sits on the Board of Calnex Solutions PLC, an AIM listed company, as well as Women in Telecommunications and Technology, a non-profit networking group focused on education and enhancing women’s careers.
Middlesex University is her alma mater.
Richa Karan Khanchandani is the elected Education Officer at Middlesex University Students’ Union and a BSc Psychology with Counselling Skills student.
She has held several student-facing roles – including Resident Assistant, Student Voice Leader, Communities Intern, Bollywood Society President and Student Learning Assistant – focused on creating a positive and inclusive student experience.
With experience in mental health initiatives both in the UK and in India, she is committed to embedding well-being into the fabric of university life, actively working to ensure that mental health challenges do not become barriers to education.
Anne is currently Chief Executive Officer of the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors.
Prior to this, she was Executive Director of the Small Business Charter, and Chief Executive of the Chartered Association of Business Schools, having been Chief Executive of the Institute of Financial Services, part of what is now the London Institute of Banking and Finance.
She has also worked in banking and as a Secondary school Maths teacher.
Anne was awarded an OBE in the 2019 Queen’s Birthday Honours for services to small businesses and entrepreneurs.
She sits on the Dean’s Advisory Board at Oxford Brookes Business School, from which she received an Honorary Doctorate in 2024.
Rebecca Lawrence is the Chief Executive of the British Library.
Rebecca has had a long and successful career in leadership roles across the public service and university sector.
From 2019 to 2023 she was Chief Executive of the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS), where she led the organisation through the pandemic, implementing large scale innovation to improve performance and support digital transformation.
Prior to leading the CPS, she was a founder and first CEO of the Mayor’s Office for Policing and Crime (MOPAC), serving as Director of Strategy and Resourcing from 2013 to 2016, and Chief Executive from 2016 to 2019.
In these roles she became a recognised national leader of police technology and digital security innovation.
She forged her career in Whitehall as a senior civil servant at HM Treasury before moving to the Home Office and policing to lead on counter-terrorism strategy, resourcing and transformation.
Dame Jil Matheson was National Statistician, Head of the Government Statistical Service and Chief Executive of the UK Statistics Authority from 2009 until 2014, following a career in social research and statistics.
Jil also Chaired the OECD's Committee on Statistics and Statistical Policy and the UN Statistical Commission.
She is currently a member of various committees, including the UK Committee on Research Integrity.
She is a non-executive Director of the Sports Ground Safety Authority.
Throughout her career Jil has championed research and statistics for the public good to enable citizens and decision makers to understand their communities, their countries, and the world.
She was appointed DCB (Dame Commander of the Order of the Bath) in 2014 for services to official statistics.
Andrea Rigamonti is an experienced finance professional with over 20 years of leadership in listed and international businesses.
He was most recently Group CFO and Board Director at Videndum plc, a FTSE Small Cap group providing mission-critical products to the global media, broadcast, film studio, photography, and content creation sectors.
He previously held senior roles including Group Financial Controller at Senior plc, a FTSE 250 engineering group.
Andrea brings expertise in strategy, audit and risk governance, financial oversight, and stakeholder engagement.
He has worked with Audit Committees since 2010 and has led financial stewardship through periods of significant disruption.
He began his career in investment banking at Morgan Stanley.
He is a Chartered Management Accountant and holds an MEng in Engineering, Economics and Management from the University of Oxford.
Andrea is a member of the University’s Audit, Assurance and Risk Committee.
Mark Simpson is the Director of eDiscovery for Europe, the Middle East and Africa at OpenText, a leading information management technology company.
Mark began his career as a barrister and solicitor in Perth, Western Australia, before relocating to London in 1997.
He led the development of successful technology, information and consulting solutions at global firms including LexisNexis and Thomson Reuters, with his products for Legal and Life Sciences markets being recognised through the UK Legal Technology Awards and the Queen’s Award for Excellence (Innovation category).
Over the past decade, Mark has specialised in eDiscovery and Forensic technology, overseeing operations and global investigation services at Epiq Systems and Deloitte.
He has worked on some of the world’s largest cross-border litigation cases and regulatory inquiries, and on a range of high-profile public inquiries in the UK.
In addition to his legal qualifications, he holds CIPP/E and CIPM certifications form the International Association of Privacy Professionals, and an MA in the History and Philosophy of Science and Medicine from Birkbeck College.
Mark also mentors the leaders of small technology businesses and is a mentor for SSAFA, the Armed Forces Charity.
Mohit Vyasam is the current President of Middlesex University Students’ Union, representing the voice of over 13,000 students.
With a background in Business Administration and a Master’s in Management from Middlesex University, Mohit brings a strong focus on inclusion, employability, and community-building.
During his time as a sabbatical officer, he has led key initiatives around student engagement, campus improvements, and accessibility.
Mohit sits on various University committees, ensuring that student priorities are embedded at all levels of decision-making.
Frances Wadsworth has extensive experience from across the educational sector, for which she was awarded a CBE in 2022.
In addition to a successful career in further educational leadership, where she was responsible for the turnaround leadership of a number of FE colleges, Frances has served as a governor in the school, FE and HE sectors.
She has held a number of Ministerial appointments: the National role of Chair of Ofqual, as Further Education Commissioner, providing independent oversight of England’s FE Colleges; and as a member of CITB Board.
Frances currently serves as a Deputy FE Commissioner providing leadership and governance support for England’s further educational colleges.
Professor Shân Wareing is the University's Vice-Chancellor.
Shân’s first job was as a Lecturer in English Language and Linguistics at the University of Roehampton, before she moved into the field of Education Development, during which period she was Co-Chair of the Staff and Educational Development Association.
She has a track record of leading institutional transformation programmes including assessment at University of the Arts London, leading to a 12% uplift in the assessment and feedback questions in the National Student Survey sustained over ten years, digital transformation of the student journey at London South Bank University, which won a PwC award, and recruitment improvements at the University of Northampton, leading to an uplift in recruitment of 18-year-old students, ahead of comparable Higher Education Institutions.
From 2020-2025, she was Chair of the charity Unite Foundation, and is Chair of AdvanceHE’s Leadership and Management Strategic Advisory Group.
Her current scholarly interests are leadership and governance, diversity and inclusion, and higher education policy.
Shân studied English Literature and Language at the University of Oxford, and Sociolinguistics at the University of Strathclyde.
Homiyar Wykes is currently Global Financial Controller for Exa Infrastructure, a digital infrastructure company, where he is responsible for finance transformation and managing the global finance function.
He started his career as an audit trainee with Arthur Andersen and worked in positions of increasing global responsibility at KPMG, ArcelorMittal (Metals and Mining), Stolt-Nielsen (Transportation and Logistics) and ED&F Man (Commodity Trading).
Homiyar is a Chartered Accountant and holds a Post Graduate Diploma in Business Management from Warwick Business School.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/professional-services:
Our dedicated staff at every level of university life make a transformative difference to the lives of our students and to the lives of people both locally and globally through our education, research and knowledge exchange, and engagement.
Dr Ellen Buck Pro Vice-Chancellor, Education and Student Experience
Gurdip Binning Director of International Recruitment and Academic Partnerships
Professor Darryll Bravenboer Director of Apprenticeships & Professor of Higher Education Skills
Jane Hoar Interim Director of Academic Quality
Paul Kirk Director of International Preparatory Programmes and Exchanges
Lia Lawson Interim Director of Student Administration and Admissions
David Malpas Director of Faculty Operations
Deeba Parmar Head of Academic Practice Enhancement
Jack Tims Head of MDXworks
Professor Janet Jones Pro Vice-Chancellor, Global Research and Knowledge Exchange
Mark Gray Director of Knowledge Exchange and CPD
Olivia McLaughlin Interim Director Strategic Development (Global Research and Knowledge Exchange)
Nico Pizzolato Director of Postgraduate Research Studies
Neelam Raina Director of Research
Dalia Dasgupta Interim Director of Human Resources
James Smith Chief Information Officer
Zuzana Botkova Director of Estates and Facilities
Justin Scott Director of Student Recruitment, Marketing and Communications
Mark Humphreys Interim Director of Strategic Planning and Performance

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/honorary-graduates:
Sandra A Agard is a celebrated British storyteller, author, literary consultant, and cultural historian whose work spans more than five decades.
A lifelong champion of Black British literature, African-Caribbean oral traditions, African and African- American literature and inclusive education.
She is a leading authority in the field of cultural heritage.
Sandra’s own heritage background is African and Guyanese/Caribbean which plays a vital role in her work.
Sandra began her career as a library assistant and a library development officer working with Black communities and has long used literature, history and storytelling to empower others.
Sandra has served as Reader-in-Residence in prisons and communities, and Writer-in-Residence in schools and libraries and is currently a Learning Facilitator for Schools at the British Library.
In this role, she utilises the British Library’s exhibitions and vast catalogue of resources to deliver programmes like the Black British Literature Timeline, Windrush Voices and Creative Writing – Write Here.
Through these programmes, she encourages children, young people, and trainee teachers to explore and embrace topics such as oral and written histories, heritage, culture, and identity.
Sandra’s creative practice is rooted in justice, education, and transformation.
Her approach is imaginative and inclusive, using storytelling as a tool to teach, empower, and connect.
She has been a project partner with Middlesex University on initiatives such as ‘Poetry versus Colonialism’ and ‘Minibeasts of Barnet’, both of which use the arts to examine decolonisation, sustainability, and community engagement.
She is an Honorary Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature and a winner of the RSL’s Benson Medal for services to literature.
Sandra’s work stands as a testament to the power of culture in building stronger, more inclusive societies.
An advocate for the arts as a driver of change and an ambassador for our University, Sandra exemplifies our mission to collaborate creatively  to build a fairer, healthier, and more sustainable world, all the while inspiring future educators, artists, and activists.
Tim Boughton is a visionary mental health and cognitive performance advocate, trusted global advisor, and changemaker whose work bridges countries, government, business, and humanitarian sectors.
As a leader of one of the world’s most respected global family networks, Tim has devoted his career to using influence and collaboration to create lasting impact across the world.
With a background in the Army as an Officer, a Commando Helicopter Pilot with the Royal Navy and banking, Tim has gone on to become a sought-after strategist and advisor for high-profile families and corporations.
His work with veterans and emergency services personnel, especially those living with PTSD, has been internationally recognised.
A passionate advocate for mental health reform, Tim pioneered the use of Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Therapy in treating trauma-related disorders in elite personnel in the military and sport.
Tim’s personal journey – overcoming critical mental health issues, including PTSD – has fuelled his mission to empower others.
His ground-breaking study of over 280 mental health apps led to the creation of an award-winning programme that has saved lives and transformed approaches in trauma care.
His impact has reached corporate boardrooms, veterans' organisations, and mental health services worldwide.
Tim recently completed a master’s degree at Oxford University at the age of 52, demonstrating a lifelong commitment to learning and growth.
Known for his humility, resilience, and powerful storytelling, Tim’s work has reshaped policies, inspired individuals, and disrupted conventional thinking.
He is a compelling speaker whose lived experience and strategic insight make him an influential figure in global conversations on wellbeing and inclusion.
In addition, he still flies as the pilot to Pink Floyd.
Tim’s story exemplifies the University’s values of collaboration and purpose-driven action.
He embodies leadership with empathy.
His ability to connect across sectors and support others to realise their potential makes him a powerful role model for students and alumni alike.
Sue Cunningham is a globally respected leader in educational advancement and the current President and CEO of the Council for Advancement and Support of Education (CASE).
She oversees an international membership of over 3,000 schools, colleges, and universities across more than 80 countries.
Under her leadership, CASE supports institutions in developing robust alumni relations, strategic communications, fundraising, and marketing operations with a vision of advancing education to transform lives and society.
Appointed to CASE in 2015, Sue brought a wealth of experience from senior advancement positions in higher education across three continents.
Originally trained in the performing arts, Sue holds a bachelor’s Degree in Performance Arts from Middlesex University and was awarded a master’s Degree by the University of Oxford.
Her early career in the arts and theatre has contributed to her dynamic approach to leadership and communication.
Prior to joining CASE, she served as Vice-Principal for Advancement at the University of Melbourne, where she collaborated closely with their Vice-Chancellor to launch an AUS$500 million fundraising campaign and build a comprehensive advancement team.
Before moving to Australia, Sue was Director of Development at the University of Oxford.
There, she led the advancement team responsible for the Oxford Thinking Campaign – at the time, the largest fundraising initiative ever undertaken outside the United States, with a goal of £1.25 billion.
She also played a pivotal role in expanding Oxford’s global presence, including establishing the university’s first China office in Hong Kong.
Sue started her career in university advancement, after working in theatre and the museum and galleries sector, at the University of St Andrews where she was Director of External Relations.
Sue continues to be a transformational figure in global education, embodying our University’s values of creative collaboration and placing students at the heart of education.
She is an Honorary Fellow of the Melbourne Graduate School of Education and a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts.
Montell Douglas is a record-breaking athlete and advocate for inclusion in sport, whose multifaceted career has spanned elite athletics, public service, coaching, and motivational speaking.
Outside of competing, she has appeared as ‘Fire’ in the 2024 BBC One reboot of Gladiators, and was subsequently a contestant on the twenty-second series of Strictly Come Dancing.
A Middlesex University alumna, she fondly describes her time at the University as a “combination of distance learning with a community,” highlighting the strength of the support network that shaped her academic journey.
A late starter in her cohort, Montell’s maturity and drive quickly set her apart.
She built strong bonds with peers and staff alike, forming friendships that have endured for over a decade and forging lasting relationships with the University’s sports department.
This supportive environment provided a foundation for her ambitious athletic and professional career.
Montell’s sporting accomplishments are historic.
She became the first British woman to compete in both the Summer and Winter Olympic Games – first as a sprinter in Beijing 2008, and then as a bobsledder in Beijing 2022.
Her transition between sports was unprecedented and marked by her signature work ethic and resilience.
She was also part of the British 4x100m relay team that won a Commonwealth Gold medal and she held the British 100m record.
Off the track, Montell has continually worked to uplift others.
She has served as a physical wellbeing coordinator for children and young people, a mentor and coach, and a powerful public speaker.
Her advocacy for women in sport, disability sport, and the importance of mental health has made her a role model far beyond athletics.
Montell uses her platform to champion diversity, representation, and resilience.
Her deep understanding of what it means to overcome barriers – both societal and personal – makes her an inspiration to the next generation of students and athletes.
Through all her achievements, she remains committed to helping others reach their full potential.
Sindi Mabaso-Koyana is an esteemed South African business leader, chartered accountant, and advocate for women's leadership in finance and governance.
She is the founder of the African Women Chartered Accountants (AWCA) organisation, a groundbreaking initiative that has transformed the landscape of accounting in South Africa and opened doors for generations of Black women professionals.
A respected figure in global finance, Sindi has held numerous leadership roles in both the private and public sectors, across auditing, financial management, and corporate governance.
She has served on the boards of some of South Africa’s most influential institutions, including the South African Reserve Bank, Toyota South Africa, The Public Investment Corporation, among others.
Her leadership has consistently championed ethical governance, social equity, and the empowerment of women in business.
Through AWCA, Sindi has mentored many young professionals and created a network that not only supports aspiring accountants but also nurtures future CEOs and business leaders.
Her work exemplifies the spirit of ‘local is global’, demonstrating how South African excellence and innovation can inspire and influence global best practices.
To ensure the lasting legacy and sustainability of AWCA, Sindi has led the formation of the AWCA investment arm and recently a private equity firm which contributes its returns to AWCA.
Sindi’s association with Middlesex University speaks to the institution’s values of inclusivity, internationalism, and social transformation.
With a large and diverse cohort of accounting students, many of whom will enter a globalised profession, Sindi's story provides a powerful example of how ambition, mentorship, and representation can redefine the boundaries of what is possible.
Her work has not only elevated the status of women in finance but also fostered cross-continental collaboration, mentorship, and investment in young talent.
Roxy Murray is a tireless advocate for disability rights and chronic illness awareness.
Widely known as the ‘Multiple Sclerosis Fashionista’, Roxy has used her platform and personal experiences to campaign for greater inclusion in the fashion industry and beyond.
Diagnosed with multiple sclerosis (MS), Roxy has transformed her challenges into powerful activism, advocating for greater visibility and representation for the Black, Ethnically Diverse, LGBTQ+ communities, as well as for disabled people and those living with chronic illnesses.
Her work spans multiple platforms, from fashion styling and podcasting to keynote speeches and social media, all of which she uses to challenge stereotypes and champion accessibility.
Through her podcast and public appearances, Roxy tackles important topics such as body positivity, disability representation, and health equity.
She has become a well-recognised voice for inclusive fashion, advocating for clothing that celebrates all bodies regardless of size, mobility, or medical conditions.
Her efforts have earned her recognition from organisations such as The Shaw Trust and, most recently, she was included in the BBC’s 100 Women for 2024, a celebration of inspiring and influential women globally.
Roxy’s work is deeply aligned with the University’s values of equity, diversity, and inclusion.
Her advocacy for the Black and LGBTQ+ communities living with MS and chronic illness is not only deeply personal but also intersectional and forward-thinking.
Through her work, she encourages others to speak up, be seen, and challenge the limitations placed on them by society.
Roxy offers a strong example to our community of how personal passion and adversity can become powerful tools for change.
Stella O’Brien is a pioneering researcher in digital technology and knowledge-based systems with a strong emphasis on accessibility and inclusivity for the Deaf community.
Stella has spent her career and voluntary activities not only advancing research but also challenging societal norms around disability, inclusion, and public engagement.
Stella’s work explores the implementation and management of knowledge-based systems, and she is a respected contributor to health and social care research.
Stella believes that patients and the public play a vital role in shaping national research priorities.
She’s been able to achieve this through her involvement with major funders and research organisations such as the National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR) and Cancer Research UK.
Stella brings a critical patient and public voice to research evaluation and guideline development, working on projects for NHS programmes and NICE.
She was also a 2022 Patient Reviewer of the Year for the British Medical Journal, a testament to her rigorous and insightful contributions.
In addition to her academic and policy work, Stella is active in numerous voluntary organisations focused on health, social justice, and patient advocacy.
She brings a deep understanding of the lived experience of disability and is a powerful voice for inclusive research design, equity, and patient empowerment.
Her tireless work promotes a world where research and services are co-designed with and for the people they aim to serve.
Stella's commitment to inclusion and excellence in both science and society makes her a transformative figure in the landscape of digital health and patient advocacy.
Martine Rose is a pioneering menswear designer whose innovative approach to fashion has earned her international acclaim.
A Middlesex University alumna, she studied BA Fashion at the School of Art and Design between 1999 and 2002.
Her love for fashion was sparked by the energy and style of south London’s rave and reggae scenes during the 1990s, whose rich cultural tapestry continues to inspire her design ethos.
After graduating, Martine co-founded the label LMNOP with Tamara Rothstein, shortly afterwards launching her own label with a modest £1,500 loan from The Prince's Trust.
Initially focusing on menswear shirting, her brand evolved into one of the most respected names in contemporary menswear.
She gained support from Fashion East and later from the British Fashion Council’s NEWGEN MEN awards.
Her collections are characterised by an offbeat, thoughtful reinterpretation of subcultural style, and she is known for presenting her work in unconventional venues such as community markets and rock-climbing centres around north London.
Through her work, Martine not only redefines the boundaries of fashion but also raises awareness of the urban spaces and communities that influence her.
One of her standout shows was held at the Seven Sisters Indoor Market, a vibrant cultural hub, as a tribute to the community spirit that shaped her.
Today, Martine’s work is celebrated for its authenticity and relatability, with fans including global icons like Drake, Rihanna, and A$AP Rocky.
Her collaboration with Nike further cemented her reputation, making her pieces coveted by collectors.
Martine’s contributions to the industry were recently recognised in the Vogue Runway exhibition at London’s Lightroom gallery in King’s Cross, further cementing her place as a vital voice in fashion.
Her bold creativity, community focus, and commitment to inclusive narratives make her an inspirational figure in contemporary design.
Professor David Sugarman is a distinguished legal scholar and educator who has played a significant role in the development of legal education and was centrally involved in establishing Middlesex University’s School of Law, helping to shape its identity and academic vision.
His wide-ranging expertise includes legal history, corporate law, anti-discrimination law and international human rights.
David has taught and researched at leading universities including Cambridge, Oxford, Princeton and Lancaster, and at Harvard Law School.
He holds a LLB from the University of Hull, a LLM and Diploma in Comparative Legal Studies from Cambridge, and a LLM and SJD from Harvard.
Throughout his career, David has authored and edited numerous publications, including 24 books and over 100 articles and book chapters.
His work has received widespread recognition and funding from governments, NGOs and intergovernmental organisations.
He has also advised on policy reform and legal development across the UK and internationally.
As Founding Director, David established at Lancaster University the first Centre for Law and Society in England and Wales.
His mentoring and assistance has been acknowledged by more than 100 authors in over 150 publications.
More of David’s professional accolades include election as a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society and the Academy of Social Sciences, an Honorary Fellow of the American Society for Legal History, and Trustee of both the American Society for Legal History and the Law and Society Association.
These honours reflect his significant contribution to both the academic study of law in society and the broader legal profession.
David’s research and achievements are deeply interwoven with Middlesex’s evolution and its commitment to interdisciplinary, socially relevant scholarship.
He continues to inspire students and legal scholars to engage with law, history, politics and society, and to pursue rigorous, justice-oriented research.
Sarah Anderson set up The Listening Place – a service that offers face-to-face support and counselling to people who are suicidal – in July 2016.
Previously she volunteered for Central London Samaritans for 37 years, and was Director for three.
Sarah’s career spans private and public sector.
Starting off in HR for a large company, she was CEO of specialist catering sector employment agency Mayday Group, ran other businesses and social enterprises, and has been a Non Executive Director of many firms.
She is a past board member of the Recruitment and Employment Confederation and chair of its forerunner the Federation of Recruitment and Employment Services.
She has served as a Public Appointments Assessor, chairing panels recruiting the chairs of public bodies; as a Commission for Equality and Human Rights and ACAS Commissioner; and as a non-executive director of JobCentre Plus.
She was author of The Anderson Review for Government, which looked at small and medium sized companies’ guidance and business support needs.
She is a former chair of the SME Council of the CBI, where she sat on the President’s Committee.
Most recently, she was lay advisor to the independent investigation into discrimination in the Conservative Party and a member of the State Honours Committee.
Sarah’s deputy at The Listening Place is a Middlesex University alumnus, and a number of Middlesex students and graduates volunteer for the charity.
Sarah is currently chair of the judges for this year’s everywoman Awards for women running their own businesses.
Tim attended St Bonaventure’s Catholic secondary in Forest Gate and studied Psychology at Middlesex, graduating in 1998.
In the past couple of years his career has come full circle, with his return to The Apprentice, the first ever series of which he won in 2005, as one of Sir Alan Sugar’s aides alongside Baroness Karren Brady.
After the Apprentice, Tim spent two years at Amstrad before leaving to found Bright Ideas Trust, a charity which helps disadvantaged people aged from 16 to 30 set up their own business.
The foundation raised more than £3 million and supported more than 750 start-ups.
Tim’s efforts with this and as an enterprise ambassador for both the then Labour government and for Mayor of London Boris Johnson led to him being awarded an MBE in 2012.
Tim’s recent activities include a role as Regional Head of Africa for global trading firm OSTC Ltd, in which capacity he backed a new financial trading and investment degree at Sheffield Hallam University; Diversity and Inclusion strategic advisor for global talent acquisition company AMS; and Marketing Directing for financial services education company TheZISHI.com.
Passionate about inclusion, talent development and financial literacy, Tim sits on the City of London Corporation’s Education Board, championing companies’ social impact on communities through his support for the Lord Mayor’s Dragon Awards.
He has his own consultancy and mentoring business, investments in the leisure sector and AI, and is a member of the Government’s Windrush Commemoration Committee.
Thalie has led Breast Cancer UK since 2019.
Educated in New South Wales, she has more than 20 years of experience working in senior roles in the public and third sectors in the UK and Australia.
She has run a number of high-profile programmes, among them a national initiative to transform care practice for children in schools for Diabetes UK; a transformation project at Sydney's Museum of Applied Arts and Sciences; and numerous state-wide public health prevention programmes for the New South Wales State Government.
Her proudest moments include supporting Magpie Dance, the UK dance charity for people with a learning disability where she was previously CEO, to achieve Arts Council National Portfolio Organisation status.
Since 2019, Breast Cancer UK has grown three-fold, increasing research funding and reaching tens of thousands of people with a personalised, self-guided breast cancer prevention quiz.
Having lost her mother to breast cancer in 2007, Thalie is committed to making prevention a policy and public health priority, and to empowering people of all ages and backgrounds to become more aware of the disease.
Thali is "absolutely delighted" to have been able to forge connections between Middlesex and Breast Cancer UK, with Middlesex students supporting the charity's social research into prevention and in return Breast Cancer UK helping students and staff adopt lifelong risk reducing habits.
In 2023, the organisations collaborated on the UK's first ever breast cancer prevention conference, focused on exploring the links between chemical, environmental and lifestyle factors behind breast cancer, and breast cancer occurrence and survival.
Born in Turkey, Sevil studied Interior Architecture at Brighton College of Art.
At the end of her first year in 1968, she was failed for leading demonstrations and “being involved with too many communistic activities”.
Returning on a probationary basis, she won the design and build competition for the Dean’s new desk, which she made out of cantilevered steel sections; from then on, she “learned to focus and worked very hard,” she says.
Sevil's roles after art college included working for YRM Architects, where she became the first female Design Director.
In 1994, she founded her studio SevilPeach Architecture + Design with Gary Turnbull RIBA.
Their new workplace concept for German furniture company Vitra proved a seminal project.
A slew of internationally-recognised schemes followed - Microsoft's HQ in the Netherlands; Novartis's offices in Basel, Shanghai and Boston; Artek's HQ in Helsinki; Pan Macmillan's offices in London.
In 2006 the studio was invited to transform a disused building in Amsterdam into a new serviced office concept, a homely environment encouraging collaboration: a pioneering venture in co-working and the birth of the Spaces brand.
Collaborations with other architects include work with Herzog & de Meuron on the Tate Modern Extension and most recently, with David Chipperfield Architects on Rolex's new Head Offices in New York.
Sevil met Middlesex academics Francesca Murialdo and Naomi House at a 2018 conference, finding they shared a commitment to human-centric design to create inclusive, supportive environments: the theme of a talk she gave to Middlesex students.
In 2018, she was honoured with Frame Magazine’s inaugural Lifetime Achievement Award.
Hege is Global Circular Strategy and Transformation associate director at Ingka Group, IKEA's largest franchisee, having worked in sustainability roles for the Swedish retailer for the past 9 years.
A graduate of University of the Arts and Goldsmiths, she began her career as a photographer where her projects included album cover campaigns for Adele and Mika.
She became a creative impact consultant consultant and then moved into social enterprise, co-founding mental wellbeing support organisation Mindapples and becoming a programme manager at grant-giving, mentoring and support organisation for social entrepreneurs, UnLtd.
At IKEA her successes include directing the development and operations of the first global flagship sustainable store, IKEA Greenwich - which achieved a global first BREAAM (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method) Outstanding certification for a retail site; co-developing IKEA’s Role in Society strategic direction, and integrating sustainability into the company's expansion plans.
She oversaw launches of a buy-back scheme, with IKEA customers given vouchers worth up to 50% of the original value of the returned product, and sales of a residential storage battery and solar panels in partnership with Solarcentury.
She was Ikea's adviser at the COP26 summit.
Her current work is focused on strategic direction and capacity-building, to enable IKEA to meet its ambition to become a fully circular and climate-positive business by 2030.
Hege is also a mentor and advisor at ZINC venture builders, a board advisor to climate tech programme Unibloom, and a visting lecturer at the University of Surrey on the Sustainable Development MSc programme.
Goldsmiths Emeritus Professor of Social Theory Victor Seidler grew up in a refugee Jewish family in Hendon.
He describes beginning his academic career in Hendon Library, surrounded by a multicultural mix of learners.
At St Catherine’s College Oxford where he read Politics, Philosophy & Economics, he developed a deep interest in the social context of philosophy.
His career spans philosophy and sociology, with writing and teaching on social theory, ethics, gender psychoanalysis and psychotherapy.
He was strongly influenced by the student movement and social currents of the 1960s, joining one of the first men’s groups responding to and supporting feminist women during a year in Cambridge, Massachusetts.
Back in London he was active in the libertarian Left and subsequently settled with his partner and family in an alternative community in Dalston.
He joined Goldsmiths in 1972 and stayed there his whole career.
He was known as a leading voice in the debate about men and masculinities.
Later he became interested in the place of morality and its interconnectedness with other elements of the human experience, as he explored in 2022’s Ethical Humans.
Other recent writing has focused on the cultural memory of events, such as 9/11 and Diana’s death, and how they challenge traditional language.
Committed to an idea of teaching where the academic is not simply imparting knowledge but learning with students, Vic is an organiser of NYLON, which unites PhD students on opposite sides of the Atlantic, offering them a different kind of space.
He is also a Professor at Progressive Jewish seminary Leo Baeck College, an academic partner of Middlesex.
Dr Simmonds leads research on Women of Faith and Peacebuilding at the London School of Economics’ Religion and Global Society Unit.
Her PhD explores the religious practices of orthodox women in the UK — she hopes to publish her findings in 2025.
She is also a Research Fellow at MDX partner institution the London School of Jewish Studies (LSJS) and a graduate of the LSJS Susi Bradfield Women Educators’ Fellowships.
Julie Siddiqi MBE is former Executive Director of the Islamic Society of Britain, where she ran high-profile campaigns including a national drive against sexual grooming and child exploitation.
She is co-founder of the Open My Mosque campaign and founder of Together We Thrive, an online platform supporting increased participation by and better media representation of Muslim women, for which she hosts the Together We Thrive podcast.
Dr Simmonds, who has many years of experience in local, national and international interfaith and peacebuilding, is vice-chair of trustees for the Abraham Initiatives UK and Jewish Scholar-in-Residence for the Council of Christians and Jews.
Julie is on the Steering Committee of the Together Coalition chaired by the Archbishop of Canterbury, Campaign and Network Manager for charity Survivors Against Terror, and patron of The Feast, which brings young people from diverse faith backgrounds together over a shared meal to use constructive dialogue for positive change.
Julie is a co-founder of and Dr Simmonds co-chairs the local branch of Jewish and Muslim Women’s Network Nisa-Nashim.
Julie and Dr Simmonds are set to stream a live online conversation together about navigating their friendship and their respective faith communities during the current Middle East conflict.
Jo Smith is Emeritus Professor of Early Intervention and Psychosis at University of Worcester.
A Chartered Clinical Psychologist in the NHS for 34 years, working mainly in adult mental health, she was Early Intervention in Psychosis (EIP) Lead for Worcestershire Health and Care NHS Trust from 1999 to 2015 and Joint National EIP Programme Lead for England from 2004-2010.
She has been involved in the development and roll out of several key national policies relating to both EIP and Individual Placement and Support (IPS) employment interventions for people with severe and enduring mental illness.
For the past seven years, she has been a National Clinical Audit of Psychosis (NCAP) Clinical Advisor to the EIP Audit in England, Wales, and Ireland.
Jo is a member of the international ‘Zero Suicide’ initiative, co-author of an International Declaration on Zero Suicide in Healthcare, published in 2015, and served on working groups which produced toolkits for Universities UK and charity PAPYRUS on suicide prevention and mental health.
She co-edited a book with the Open University’s Dr Sharon Mallon on preventing and responding to student suicide, and in 2022, with then Middlesex Director of Student Experience and Legal Affairs David Malpas, co-authored and edited HE Postvention Guidance to help university senior leaders respond sensitively and quickly after a student death by suspected suicide.
She is currently co-ordinating another collaborative project to produce national suicide prevention guidance, with several Middlesex academics as co-authors and David Malpas as co-editor.
Jo was awarded an OBE for her work in student suicide prevention in June 2023.
Over 34 years of working in telecommunications, Mallik has made key contributions to advancing network transitions and addressing the digital divide in society.
As Chief Technology Officer at Ericsson Silicon Valley, Mallik drives Ericsson’s early 6G research, leading efforts to bring together industry, academia, and government around the possibilities of future wireless systems.
He has held leadership positions at F5 networks, Juniper networks, Cisco, Motorola, Nortel, and IIT Madras.
Early in his career, he played a central role around the adoption of IP (Internet Protocol) for mobile communications systems to enable today’s mobile internet.
Subsequently, he led technology development in integrating IP and optical communications on Cisco’s first terabit routing system.
His work on transition to software-centric 5G networks for Industry 4.0 applications has resulted in landmark innovations such as network-slicing.
He is an advisor to the London Digital Twin Research Centre, based at Middlesex, collaborating with Professor Huan Nguyen and his team on applications of Digital Twins for advancing 5G and 6G networks.
Mallik has mentored more than 100 students, co-authored two books, is a Visiting Professor at universities in India and the UK, and has served on multiple industry and academic advisory boards.
Awards include CTO of the Year from Silicon Valley Business Journal and Institution of Engineering and Technology (UK) Chief Engineer of the Year.
He has been inducted into the IPv6 Hall of Fame by the IPv6 Forum, and is a fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering, the Royal Society of Edinburgh and the Canadian Academy of Engineering.
Tevin grew up in Camberwell, choosing a Sixth Form College in Hammersmith to spread his wings to a different part of London.
On graduating from Middlesex in Health Studies, his first office was in a basement next to a boiler room, and he describes how he came to crucial career decisions while sitting on a bus or watching the news.
Tevin started with a design and build business, focused on reconfiguring space in schools, for which he finally secured funding after endless pitching.
Next, he founded logistics business GV Group, making food distribution around London more efficient by using smaller vans instead of HGVs.
GV Group now has operations across the UK, in Africa and South America, delivering 24 million meals items with a value of £300 million each year.
In 2022, Tevin launched tech platform ROUTD that modernises the servicing of ‘last mile’ deliveries.
ROUTD gives businesses complete transparency through a trackable, auditable, interface.
GV Group subsidiary Repco Global supports energy and infrastructure businesses in remote regions.
Tevin has set up a charitable organisation, The Tobun Foundation, offering young people from disadvantaged backgrounds a better chance of attaining higher education through financial support and mentorship.
He is a council member at The Open University, and has roles with charities Inspirational You and Springboard and professional association Arena Network.
For six years, he has consistently featured in Powerful Media’s Top 100 list of most influential black Britons.
Last year he was inducted into the Dr Martin Luther King Board of Sponsors, which recognises those who have contributed to business and social impact.
David Willetts was a pupil at King Edward’s School, Birmingham and studied Politics, Philosophy and Economics at Christ Church College, Oxford.
He was a Treasury civil servant, heading up the monetary policy division aged 26, then joined the Number 10 Policy Unit, before becoming Director of Research at the Centre for Policy Studies.
Elected MP for Havant in 1992, David served as a whip and Cabinet Office Minister under John Major, and reached the Shadow Cabinet covering the Work and Pensions, Trade and Industry and Education departmental briefs while the Conservatives were in opposition.
Running policy co-ordination for Michael Howard, he developed a keen interest in social justice, touring the country to spend nights at a London homeless shelter and on a Birmingham housing estate.
He was Minister for Universities and Science from 2010-14, winning plaudits from academics despite the controversial nature of the Coalition's HE reforms for his tireless work, championing of research and his personal enthusiasm and affection for science.
In June 2015, David was appointed executive chair of thinktank the Resolution Foundation, of which he is now President.
He chairs the UK Space Agency, sits on UKRI's board and is an Honorary Fellow of the Royal Society.
He is a board member of cyber security company Darktrace plc, a visiting Professor at King’s College London and chair of the Foundation for Science and Technology.
He is a leading proponent of “civic Conservatism” and author of a number of books on economic and social policy including The Pinch: How the Baby Boomers Took Their Children's Future.
Adrian is Chief Executive of Film London and the British Film Commission.
A recognised authority on subjects including Hollywood, Italian cinema, and crime and mystery, he regularly lectures, writes, broadcasts and curates programmes.
He studied English and American literature and then Film Studies at the University of East Anglia, where he says he realised that “if you wanted to be in any way attached to film/TV, you had to not just love it but watch a lot of it, all the time, and make sure you understood as much as possible about its making”.
Prior to the British Film Commission, he was Director of the Bradford Playhouse & Film Theatre, Director of the London Film Festival and the National Film Theatre, and Acting Director of the British Film Institute.
He is a Programme Advisor to the BFI London Film Festival, Venice Film Festival and Noir in Fest, Milan and Founding Director of Nottingham's Shots in the Dark Festival.
Adrian first came to MDX to give a talk 8 or 9 years ago.
This was the start of a strong working relationship between Film London and MDX, with MDX becoming a key partner of Film London in the Creative Skills Academy and Metro London Skills Cluster.
Adrian led the British Film Commission's work to develop guidance on working safely during the pandemic.
Most recently, he has been working closely with the BFI, government and industry stakeholders to support the UK Screen Sector Skills Review.
Adrian is a BAFTA and European Film Academy Member.
In 2017, he was awarded an OBE for services to the film industry.
A London-born artist of Jamaican heritage, Don’s career began in the mid Seventies when he started selling jukeboxes and unique fashion pieces from his store in Kings Road, Chelsea.
Acme Attraction soon became famous for its deep dub soundtrack provided by Don’s extensive vinyl collection and its influential following of musicians including The Clash, Sex Pistols, Chrissie Hynde, Patti Smith, Debbie Harry and one of Don’s heroes and friends – Bob Marley.
Don was credited as being the DJ that introduced reggae to the emerging punk rock scene and produced a film documenting the revolutionary period ‘The Punk Rock Movie’ in 1977.
This laid the foundations for a career as a respected international artist, social commentator and documenter of cultural movements.
Don, who grew up in Brixton, was a co-founder of the highly successful and innovative band Big Audio Dynamite and is seen as a world-leader in creating music which fuses punk, rap and reggae.
He has directed more than 300 music videos and made documentaries featuring Gil Scot-Heron, The Jam, Sun Ra, George Clinton and Paul McCartney.
In 2003 Don won a Grammy for his documentary ‘Westway to the World’ and in 2007 produced 'Speakers Corner', a contemporary response to the 200th anniversary of the abolition of the British slave trade, in conjunction with the British Arts Council.
Don Letts’s cross-media body of work, inspired by the synergy of ideas, has seen him lauded across the world.
He’s been exhibited at The Kitchen New York , The Institute of Contemporary Art, and the National Film Theatre in London, and honoured at both Brooklyn’s BAM festival and The Milan Film festival and recently at the highly acclaimed 2023 Saatchi gallery ‘Beyond the Streets’ exhibition.
He hosts his own show Culture Clash Radio on 6 Music.
Whatever medium he chooses, Don is driven by a spirit of collaboration and seeks to encourage and promote culture to enrich people’s lives.
Sharon Grant, OBE, the Chair of the Board of Public Voice, an important social enterprise specialising in community and user engagement in health and social care, has dedicated her life to the causes of social change, inclusivity and cultural opportunity.
Sharon has lived in Haringey, North London for over 45 years and her many achievements span a broad spectrum of activities, including contributions to public health, social care, consumer representation, inclusive political engagement and the sponsorship of the arts in her community.
Her many skillsets are driven by a single desire to give a voice to all levels of society and create an environment where every individual is given a chance to shine.
Sharon started out as a university lecturer in social policy.
She moved from academic world to become a local councillor, in Haringey, and then run the parliamentary office of the late Bernie Grant MP, who she later married, standing side-by-side with her husband for over 13 years on his dedicated path to demand change across his Tottenham seat and for overlooked communities across London and internationally.
After his death Sharon moved to widen her work, becoming Chair of the Commission for Patient and Public Involvement in Health in 2002-2008, then Chair of London Travelwatch between 2008 and 2012.
Over the same period she worked to achieve her late husband’s dream of an arts centre and in 2007 the £15m Bernie Grant Arts Centre was opened to provide a multi-disciplinary arts and enterprise space, bringing together culturally diverse artists and a gateway to fresh opportunities.
Sharon remains a Trustee and Secretary of the Centre, which recently achieved national portfolio funding from the Arts Council.
As Chair of Haringey Citizen’s Advice service from 2007-2015, Sharon helped individuals get the help and support they needed, across health, social care and consumer representation.
In 2013 she was senior parliamentary advisor for an enquiry into the hospital complaints system.
Sharon was awarded the Order of the British Empire in 2014 for services to the arts and the community.
These are still issues close to her heart as she is currently on the board of the Council of Consumers Association, ‘Which?’.
In 2014 she was the founding Chair of Public Voice, a community interest company which aims to make change by listening to those who use public services, and bringing their voice, especially of patients and social care users to policy makers.
In this capacity, in recent years Sharon has built a strong relationship with Middlesex University and formalised a promising partnership with Public Voice with a Memorandum of Understanding in 2022.
This has led to a collaboration with Middlesex researchers, focusing on the issues that need to be addressed to give marginalised members of the community a platform for change.
The goal is to develop a model that translates to communities across the UK and further afield.
Professor Dame Carol Black has played many important roles in a multi-layered career as a clinician, scientist, administrator, and reformer.
She is very well known for the Centre she established at the Royal Free Hospital in London to generate research and improve treatment of scleroderma (rare but frequently fatal) and other connective tissue diseases.
She became President of the Royal College of Physicians of London in 2002, only the second woman to hold that post in the College’s 500-year history, and was made a Dame in 2006.
She has been a life-long champion of women in medicine, and a passionate advocate for workplace health as vital to the entire population’s wellbeing and to our sustainable future.
A child of working-class parents, Carol took a degree in History at Bristol before she realised that it was medicine she wanted to pursue, a path by no means smooth.
After a year on the Voluntary Service Overseas scheme on islands in the West Pacific Ocean, she came to medicine in Bristol at the age of 25.
Following “a light bulb moment” in 2004, Dame Carol developed a growing interest in the social determinants of health, particularly employment and worklessness, and became deeply involved with social aspects of medicine.
As National Director for Health and Work, she provided independent leadership for a new 5-year-funded cross-government Health, Work and Wellbeing agenda, and authored two influential independent reviews for government, on the health of the working-age population, and on sickness absence in Britain.
In 2012 she became an Expert Adviser to the Department of Health, NHS England, NHS Improvement and Public Health England, where she authored an important independent review for government on the employment outcomes of addiction to drugs or alcohol and obesity.
In 2021, her latest independent review for government, on illicit drugs, provided concrete suggestions for improvement of treatment and recovery from addiction.
This has informed a new 10-year anti-drug strategy, adopted and funded by the government, and now being implemented nationally.
Today Dame Carol is a special advisor to Universities UK’s Student Drugs Taskforce, with a remit to understand the demand for, and use of, drugs by the nation’s students, focusing on tackling issues around drug use and providing support for recovery and wellbeing.
For several years Dame Carol has chaired the board of Think Ahead , the fast-track training programme, funded by DHSC, for graduates to become Mental Health Social Workers.
Middlesex University is proud to be the academic partner on this much-needed programme, now into its sixth cohort of 160 trainees.
Beyond the world of medicine and healthcare, in 2018 Dame Carol was appointed Chair of the board of the British Library.
With art and culture being increasingly viewed as important for the mental wellbeing of individuals and wider society, this noble institution could have no more fitting custodian.
In the field of human rights, few have made the long-standing contribution or achieved the lasting influence of Bianca Jagger – a force of nature whose dynamic personality continues to generate effective changes globally.
Born in Nicaragua in 1950, Bianca won a scholarship from the French government to study at the prestigious Paris Institute of Political Studies and became fascinated by the forces and movements that shape lives and determine individual outcomes.
It was here that Bianca first encountered the teachings of Gandhi and his belief in non-violent protest, an introduction to Eastern philosophy which would underpin much of her future thinking.
It was, however, Ms Jagger’s mother – discriminated against for being a divorced, working woman in a patriarchal society – who most influenced her outlook of the world.
Bianca has shown unwavering commitment to speaking up for women’s rights, campaigning tirelessly to end violence against women and girls, not least to stamp out female genital mutilation.
In the 70s and 80s Bianca led a well-documented high-profile lifestyle, associating with world renowned figures such as Andy Warhol all the while amplifying the voice of the most vulnerable.
A global fashion icon, and mother to daughter Jade from her then marriage to Mick Jagger and a grandmother to Amba, Assisi and Ray and great-grandmother to Ezra, Romy and River, she has never lost sight of social injustices.
A number of experiences then firmly set Bianca’s life on a new path, defending victims of human rights violations and fighting to shine a spotlight on communities facing extreme challenges with no voice of their own.
Bianca has since used her profile on the world stage to progress the causes she believes in.
In a 1979 visit to Nicaragua with the International Red Cross and was shocked by the brutality and oppression perpetrated by the Somoza regime.
In 1981 Bianca was part of a US delegation to Honduras and came face-to-face with a death squad leading a group of refugees towards the El Salvador border.
The delegation felt compelled to intervene and confronted the would-be executors with cries of “You’ll have to kill us all”.
In a tense stand-off the squad relented and the captives were released.
The world saw how, armed with courage, humanity prevailed.
To this day, Bianca has continued to fight for meaningful change.
She has made significant contributions to international campaigns against the death penalty, crimes against humanity, and to the defence of indigenous peoples, including the Yanomami of Brazil.
In 2005 she founded the Bianca Jagger Human Rights Foundation – of which she is still President – and has been a Council of Europe Goodwill Ambassador since 2003.
With strong ties to Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch and the Red Cross, it’s no surprise that Bianca has received many international awards – among them the Right Livelihood Award, known as the alternative Nobel prize.
Her work has been recognised worldwide and Bianca has honorary doctorates from Stonehill College (1983), Simmons College (2008), the University of East London (2010), and Roehampton University (2017).
Bianca remains committed to campaigning against human rights abuses especially in Nicaragua.
She has consistently called on the International community to take more of an active response action against the increasingly grave human rights violations and perilous conditions facing the Nicaraguan people.
She has particularly focused this work around the plight of Bishop Álvarez Lagos who was who was condemned to 26 years and 4 months in prison earlier this year after refusing to board the flight to the United States to be deported.
She continues to raise concerns about the political repression of the current Ortega regime, recently making a direct appeal to Pope Francis to intercede on behalf of Bishop Álvarez.
A friend to our University, and a regular speaker at a range of events here – in current parlance, the very epitome of a positive ‘influencer’ – focused on civil rights and the agenda of fairness.
Lord Mann has always believed in equality and championing transparency in public life.
The dedicated trade unionist and Labour activist was elected as MP for Bassetlaw in 2001 and one of his earliest campaigns called for improved treatment of heroin users, who were encouraged to seek treatment from specially trained GPs.
As a result, the number of users undertaking treatment in Bassetlaw rose from two to more than 400, and habit related crimes fell by 75 per cent.
Lord Mann has also taken a strong stance on tackling racism and from 2004 to 2019 chaired the All-Party Parliamentary Group against Antisemitism.
He was later appointed as His Majesty’s Government’s Independent Adviser on Antisemitism (HMGIAA) by Theresa May.
Through this role Lord Mann regularly reports to the Secretary of State, relevant Department Ministers and officials to highlight issues from the Jewish Community and update them on the HMGIAA work plan.
Using his platform as an independent member of the House of Lords, Lord Mann strongly believes that society must remain vigilant to ensure every individual can enjoy freedom from persecution.
His work has focused on several areas of civic life in which antisemitism has taken root – including on University campuses.
There’s also an international aspect to his role, and earlier in 2023 Lord Mann visited Washington DC where he briefed the US Presidential taskforce at The White House.
Philippa Perry is an alumna and old friend of the University, having studied Fine Art here in the 1990s and graduating with a 2:1.
She also studied at the Metanoia Institute affiliated with Middlesex University and was an examiner for viva examinations for the Integrative Psychotherapy MSc course there for many years.
Philippa’s journey into the world of psychology began in 1985 when she trained and volunteered for The Samaritans.
This gave her experience of the trials and tribulations of the human condition, inspiring her to work in the mental health field for over 20 years as an integrative psychotherapist.
She made it her mission to share the wisdom of psychological theories and research to a wider audience and has written and broadcast radio and television documentaries on subjects such as Bipolar Disorder, Humiliation, Desire, Story Telling, Lying, When Parents Split, Surrealist Art and most recently co-presented Grayson’s Art Club which came about to get people making art during the pandemic.
As well as broadcasting Philippa has written books including Couch Fiction, which combined both art and therapy as it is a graphic novel about psychotherapy, and How To Stay Sane.
Her international bestseller The Book You Wish Your Parents Had Read and Your Children Will Be Glad That You Did has sold over two million copies and has helped many households to operate more harmoniously, and supported parents to make the best relationships they can with their children.
Throughout her career there has always been a focus on how an individual’s state of mind permeates and steers everyday life, with practical advice on how we can all work to look after our own – and our loved ones’ – mental health.
She has a weekly advice column in the Observer Magazine that continues this work.
Following a career in senior finance and leadership roles, Martin Taylor worked tirelessly as a member of the Middlesex University Board of Governors and as Director of Middlesex International (Mauritius) Ltd since 2012.
He was appointed as an independent co-opted member of the audit committee before joining the full Board as a governor in June 2013.
Martin became Deputy Chair of the Board and Chair of both the Finance Committee and the Remuneration Committee in September 2016, and at the same time joined the Board of the Joint Venture covering the Mauritius campus.
He stepped down in July 2023, but was pleased to have been asked to join a small group of Pro Chancellors who support the Chancellor and assist with MDX’s wider engagement responsibilities.
Martin has had a distinguished career in business with a focus on finance, management and consultancy work with major companies worldwide, including Inchcape plc, the international automotive distribution and retail Group.
At Inchcape he held roles as Chair/Managing Director of Toyota Greece and Toyota Belgium, living in both countries with his family, before becoming CEO Europe, Africa and South America.
Martin then moved on to build a ‘portfolio career’ which includes the use of his background in finance and business to support causes important to him.
In particular, in 2012, he became a founding Trustee and Chair of Befrienders Worldwide, now an independent registered charity which previously operated as the international division of Samaritans.
Having stepped down after 9 years as Chair, he re-joined Befrienders Worldwide as Trustee and Board Treasurer in November 2021, a position which he continues to hold today.
Martin was Chairperson of Befrienders Worldwide, a charity that helps people in emotional crisis or distress, or those close to them, until March 2021.
He rejoined the Charity's Board in November 2021 as Treasurer.
He was also Chairperson of Infinity Health, a digital platform for health and social care staff, until the end of 2022.
It's no exaggeration to say that Baroness Watkins has had an extraordinary impact on raising the profile and importance of the nursing profession both in the UK and on the international stage.
Her career started at the Wolfson School of Nursing, then Westminster Hospital and a period at South London and Maudsley Nursing School, before obtaining her PhD from King’s College London in 1985.
It was during these formative years that Mary developed a keen appreciation of the invaluable role nursing plays in the coherent functioning of a caring society.
Excelling in roles across clinical practice, education, research and leadership, Baroness Watkins has spent a lifetime championing healthcare equity for every individual – a cause we are quick to celebrate as it chimes closely with our University’s continuing vision to create healthier communities across the globe.
In recognition of her dedication to healthcare, she was created Baroness of Tavistock in 2015 and now sits in the Lords as a crossbencher.
2019 saw her further honoured with a fellowship of The Royal College of Nursing.
With an indefatigable energy and sense of purpose, it’s no surprise that Mary currently holds a number of pivotal posts that are helping shape and evolve nursing for the demands of the 21st century.
As President of the Florence Nightingale Foundation and a visiting professor at the Florence Nightingale Faculty of Nursing, Midwifery and Palliative care at King’s College London, Mary is at the forefront of raising standards across all levels of healthcare.
She was also the alternate chair of Nursing Now, which led to her helping produce the World Health Organisation’s important State of the World Nursing report in 2020.
This paper significantly raised the profile of nursing, helping the profession form a unified global movement and strengthen its ability to influence international policymakers.
Closer to home, Baroness Watkins has led policy and debate in Parliament to ensure that mental health nursing in England has the support it needs.
Support that’s essential to meet the ever growing demands of a healthcare sector that continues to expand with increased knowledge of its complexities.
This important work includes a focus on addiction and mental health through a cross-party group on Alcohol Harm and drug use in universities.
Educated at Eton, Croydon Art College and London Contemporary Dance School, in 1972 Sir Richard Alston CBE formed Strider, Britain’s first independent dance company.
He was Ballet Rambert's Artistic Director from 1986 and in 1992 became Artistic Director of The Place, where he ran his own company for 25 years.
Sir Richard was awarded the CBE in 2001 and a Knighthood in 2019.
He is Chevalier dans L’ordre des Arts et Lettres and has received the Ninette De Valois Award for Outstanding Achievement (Critic’s Circle National Dance Awards) and the Award for Excellence in International Dance by the International Theatre Institute.
He is Chair of Dance Professionals Fund and former Chair of Youth Dance England (2009-2016).
When he formed Strider, Sir Richard was supported by Wendy Cook and David Henshaw who were both involved in setting up the Dance department at Middlesex University.
Decades later, he attended a Middlesex lecture by Visiting Professor Sir Robert Cohan CBE, a formative figure in Sir Richard's creative life.
Professor David Croisdale-Appleby OBE is a leading expert on health and social care, whose passionate commitment to transforming the life chances of oppressed, vulnerable and disadvantaged people has been hugely influential in shaping social policy, nationally and internationally.
Throughout his life, David has led many public sector organisations in medicine, health and social care, social work, forensic science, and criminal and civil justice.
Commissioned by the government, David wrote an independent review of social work education and created a programme of public lectures on the new Integrated Care Systems on which our future health service will be based.
He chairs, among others, the Royal College of Physicians and the Clinical, the Public Health and the Social Care Advisory Committees which create National Guidelines at NICE.
David’s association with Middlesex began in 2019 as part of the Think Ahead programme of education for mental health social work.
This rapidly expanded into involvement across the whole Faculty of Health, Social Care and Education, including David giving a public lecture on The Integration of Health and Social Care.
Carrie Grant MBE is a BAFTA award-winning broadcaster with a TV and music career spanning 40 years.
She was awarded an Honorary Doctorate and an MBE in 2020 for her services to Music, Media & Charity.
Carrie presents for The One Show and has the biggest selling vocal coaching book in the world.
Together with her husband, David, Carrie presents BBC Radio London’s Saturday Breakfast Show.
Carrie has worked with hundreds of companies and organisations as leadership coach and is studying for an MA in Theology at Durham University.
She has also moderated Health Conferences globally and participates in many long-term panels and papers in Health and Education.
Carrie is a Crohn’s Patient and Ambassador for Crohn’s & Colitis UK as well as ambassador for The Diana Award, The National Autistic Society and Adoption UK, and Patron of mental health charity Beyond.
She has four children, one of whom was adopted.
All have additional needs, two have autism.
Dame Judith Hackitt is a former President of the Institution of Chemical Engineers and a Fellow and Trustee of the Royal Academy of Engineering.
An engineer by training, throughout her career she has championed to importance of Engineering in delivering solutions which provide benefit to society and has been a role model particularly for young women wanting to enter the profession.
Dame Judith, cares deeply about safety in the workplace and more broadly.
From 2007 to 2016 she was Chair of the Health and Safety Executive and in 2017 conducted an Independent Review for UK Government into Building Regulations and Fire Safety in the wake of the Grenfell Tower disaster.
Since publishing her final report in 2018 she has continued to press for regulatory change and for industry culture change and her recommendations for radical reform of the regulatory system recently received Royal Assent in the Building Safety Act 2022.
Brian Holliday is Managing Director for Siemens Digital Industries and is a Chartered Engineer and Fellow of the Institution of Engineering and Technology.
He is co-chair of the Government and Industry, Made Smarter Commission and has held long-standing board positions at the High Value Manufacturing Catapult and Make UK.
Brian, who started his career as an apprentice, holds a degree in Computer Systems and an Executive MBA, and is a graduate of the CBI’s Executive Leadership Programme.
He is a member of the CBI’s Manufacturing Council and of Royal Society’s Science, Industry and Translation Committee, and has contributed to Parliamentary Select Committees and the manufacturing media on the topics of Education and Digital Manufacturing.
Brian’s association with MDX began in 2017 when the UK’s first Cyber Factory training facility, which featured Siemen’s advanced automation technology, was installed at the University's Ritterman Building.
Caroline Paige is a retired Royal Air Force (RAF) navigator with a thirty-five-year flying career that includes air defence fighter aircraft during the Cold War and troop helicopters in Northern Ireland, Bosnia, Iraq, and Afghanistan.
In 1999, she became the first openly transgender officer to serve in the British Armed Forces.
When she retired from the RAF in 2014, Caroline had won four commendations for ‘exceptional service’ on the frontline and as a trailblazer, helping shape diversity and inclusion in the military.
Caroline champions LGBT+ inclusion in schools, universities, businesses, organisations, and the media.
She is a Patron of Liverpool City Region Pride Foundation, a member of Liverpool Football Club’s LGBT+ Advisory Group, a Stonewall School Role Model, and Honorary President of No 472 (Hoylake and West Kirby) Squadron, RAF Air Cadets.
Her autobiography 'True Colours' was published in 2017 and she is a co-author of the military LGBT+ anthology Fighting With Pride.
In 2020, she won the British Ex-Forces in Business Awards’ Champion of Women Award.
Caroline is Joint CEO of Fighting With Pride, a charity leading on the health and wellbeing support of LGBT+ veterans, serving personnel and families.
Christopher is a pioneer of sustainability in fashion design, bringing responsible design to a global audience and presenting a new definition of luxury with integrity.
Before graduating from the Royal College of Art, Christopher had studied BA Fashion Design at Middlesex (2001-2004), which he has said paved the way for his 2009-founded company, RÆBURN.
RÆBURN has pioneered the reworking of surplus fabrics and garments into elevated, award-winning products with distinct utilitarian value and purpose, across menswear, womenswear, luggage and accessories.
The company's collaborative spirit is reflected in many partnerships, including with the likes of Moncler and Aesop.
Christopher is seen as Timberland's 'Collaborator at Large’, continuously challenging the brand’s dedication to eco-innovation through The Earthkeepers® by RÆBURN collection.
RÆBURN's Carnaby Store was awarded the most Sustainable Store Design in the Drapers Sustainable Fashion Awards 2022.
Lord Simon Woolley is the former Director and Co-founder of race equality organisation Operation Black Vote, whose 2017 'The Colour of Power' was the most in-depth look at the racial make-up of Britain’s top jobs across 389 sectors dominating British society.
He is Principal of Homerton College, Cambridge University – the first Black man to hold such as post at either Oxford or Cambridge University.
Simon has been a crossbench member of the House of Lords since 2019 and is the former Chair of the Government's Race Disparity Unit Advisory Group.
He is Race Equality Advisor for organisations including CO-OP PLC and Saatchi and Saatchi, and played key roles in several COVID-19 Recovery commissions.
He has been in the Black Powerlist for the last 10 years, is Trustee for Police Now, and co-founder and Trustee for Youth Futures Foundation, which helps get disadvantaged youths back into employment.
In 2019, Lord Woolley received a Knighthood for his services to race equality and was created Baron Woolley of Woodford.
A Middlesex alumnus, Simon has said that his political activism and the life that he has today, as both a parliamentarian and as head of an Oxbridge college, all started at Middlesex University.
Maggie is CEO of the Royal Air Force Museum, one of the UK’s national museums with public sites in north London and the West Midlands.
In 2018, the London site launched its major transformation to mark the Centenary of the RAF with a new emphasis on storytelling and engagement.
With over 25 years’ experience in the cultural sector, Maggie is passionate about the difference that museums can make to people’s lives.
Previous roles include Chief Executive of Luton Culture, the charity which comprises the museums, arts, libraries and community centres in the town, and museum roles in Luton, Stevenage and at the Royal Armouries.
Maggie has served in public roles as a Committee Member for the Heritage Lottery Fund and as Co-Chair of the Women Leaders in Museums Network.
She is currently President of the UK’s Museums Association and a member of the judging panel for the annual Museums and Heritage Awards.
In 2012 Maggie was awarded the MBE for her services to Museums and Heritage and, in the same year, was included in the Independent on Sunday’s ‘Happy List’, its annual celebration of 100 people who make Britain a better and a happier place to live.
She says, "Our visitors to the RAF Museum have benefited hugely from our relationship with Middlesex University.
Learning and education are the keys to a civilised society and to lifting people from poverty and it is an absolute privilege and delight to be part of the Middlesex University family."
Dr Neil Bentley-Gockmann is responsible for overseeing all WorldSkills UK’s activities, working closely with our board of trustees and our stakeholders across the UK and internationally.
Neil has been at WorldSkills UK since November 2015.
Before joining WorldSkills UK, he was Deputy Director-General and Chief Operating Officer at the CBI, the UK’s premier business organisation.
He worked for 12 years at the highest level of the business and government interface nationally and internationally on issues such as trade and investment, diversity, skills and employment, public service reform and energy, climate change and infrastructure development.
Prior to his time at the CBI, he worked at global IT services provider EDS (now part of HP) advising on the employee relations implications of outsourcing, trade union relations, training and diversity across EMEA.
Neil was also the former CE of OUTstanding, a business network for LGBT leaders and their allies, and deputy chair of Stonewall, the LGBT equality charity.
He holds a PhD in race equality in the workplace and was awarded his OBE for services to equality in business in the 2019 New Year’s Honours List.
He says, “It is a real honour to receive this award from Middlesex University.
Over many years I have been impressed by the University’s commitment to the advancement of science and technology and its place at the forefront of combining academic teaching and technical education.
I am therefore very proud that through WorldSkills UK’s long-standing partnership with the University we are working together to ensure that all students, irrespective of their background, are able to develop the confidence and world-class skills needed to help them succeed in work and life.”
Judge Eboe-Osuji has been President of the Court since March 2018.
He previously served in Trial Division from March 2012 to March 2018.
Prior to joining the ICC, Judge Eboe-Osuji was the Legal Advisor to the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, during which time he anchored the High Commissioner’s interventions in cases involving human rights questions.
In that capacity, he led the writing of amicus curiae submissions to the European Court of Human Rights and the United States Supreme Court.
He served as principal appeals counsel for the Prosecution in the Charles Taylor Case at the Special Court for Sierra Leone, and has held several posts at the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda, including Head of Chambers and Lead Prosecution Trial Counsel.
He practiced law as a barrister before trial courts in Nigeria and Canada; and conducted appeals before the Court of Appeal for Ontario (Canada) and the Supreme Court of Canada.
Judge Eboe-Osuji taught international criminal law as adjunct professor at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ottawa, Canada, and has an extensive record of legal scholarship and publications, including the books titled International Law and Sexual Violence in Armed Conflicts , and Protecting Humanity (ed).
He is the editor-in-chief of the Nigerian Yearbook of International Law .
He served as legal expert to Nigeria’s delegation to the ICC-ASP Special Working Group on the Definition of the Crime of Aggression.
He was called to the Bar in Nigeria (1986); Ontario, Canada (1992); and British Columbia, Canada (1982).
He served as a pupil barrister and articled student-at-law under Chief Mike Ahamba SAN (of Ahamba & Associates, Owerri, Nigeria); Mr David W Scott QC (of Scott & Aylen, now Borden Lardner Gervais LLP, Ottawa, Canada); and, Dr Christopher Harvey QC (of Russell & DuMoulin, now Fasken Martineau DuMoulin LLP, Vancouver, Canada).
Judge Eboe-Osuji received his PhD degree from the University of Amsterdam, the Netherlands (with thesis in international criminal law).
He received his LLM degree from McGill University, Canada; and also did his Canadian law accreditation studies at McGill.
He received the LLB degree from the University of Calabar, Nigeria.
He says, "I am immensely humbled and very grateful to Middlesex University for conferring this honour on me.
I can only promise to maintain it by sustaining the aptitude that made you think me worthy of consideration for such a high honour."
Rachel is an executive leadership coach, working with CEOs and emerging talent across the commercial, public and third sectors.
From retail to refugee camps, logistics, electronics and diplomacy, to prisons, healthcare and non-governmental aid organisations, Rachel supports leaders wanting to dip beneath the surface to grow themselves and develop their teams.
Rachel specialises in global organisations, including emerging economies and post-conflict zones such as Afghanistan, the former Soviet Union, Myanmar (Burma) and Kenya.
Clients include HSBC, Samsung, M&S, Boots, the Foreign Office, the Ministry for International Trade, the NHS, UK Sport, UNICEF.
A former BBC television news reporter and international development aid project director, Rachel has worked across more than 40 different cultures.
Aged 36, she was awarded an MBE ‘for the promotion of human rights and the self-empowerment of women in Afghanistan’.
Her team won BBC Team of the Year.
Rachel champions greater diversity and sustainability at both an individual and systemic level.
Her first book Global Leadership & Coaching – Flourishing under intense pressure at work [Routledge 2019] calls for higher ethics in leadership, for greater productivity, profit and joy in coming to work.
Rachel read Psychology BSc.
(Hons) at the University of Birmingham.
She gained a Masters degree in Professional Executive Leadership Coaching with i-coach academy and Middlesex University.
She is seen as a thought leader in the field of coaching and leadership.
She is an international conference speaker and guest lecturer at Birkbeck University of London.
She offers some of her time and expertise pro bono to charities including Whittington Babies, TAG International Development and Street Child.
She says, "I feel deeply honoured to be recognised by Middlesex University – an institution which values informal, real-life learning as well as academic rigour.
My advice to students, graduates and people wondering which path to take in the workplace or in study, is to listen to your energy.
Follow the ideas, job or project which gives you most energy, rather than doing what you feel you ought to do, or what would look good to others.
Be genuine, creative and innovative.
Seek to collaborate and help others.
I didn’t know I was going to write a book, nor become a contributor to my professional field of work.
But this is what has emerged through hard work, the courage to be different and from the kindness of strangers who are now friends."
Betsy Gregory has worked in dance for more than 40 years, as a performer, teacher, rehearsal director, programmer, producer, mentor and artistic director.
Trained at London Contemporary Dance School in the 70s, Betsy was one of the first generation of independent, contemporary dance artists in Britain, performing and teaching for many choreographers and companies, most notably as a founder member of Second Stride.
In 1988, she was offered an Arts Council bursary to build her arts management skills and went on to work with John Ashford at The Place Theatre, first as Programme Manager and later, Associate Director.
In 1997, she joined Dance Umbrella and in January 2007, succeeded Val Bourne as Artistic Director, a post she held until November 2013.
Since then, she has continued to work on projects that interest and inspire her.
These have included a return to the stage in 2014, performing at Sadler’s Wells in Jonathan Burrows & Matteo Fargion’s Olivier Award nominated The Elders Project and subsequently, in 2017, in Annie-B Parson’s The Road Awaits Us .
From 2015-17, she served as mentor to five dance artists as part of the EU-funded project Dancing Museums and, more recently, has facilitated meetings, workshops and panel discussions for European Dancehouse Network in Lemesos, Prague, Dresden, Bassano del Grappa and Budapest.
In 2005 she was named Chevalier des Arts et des Lettres by the French government for services to dance.
Currently, she is a member of the board of Aerowaves, Chair of the Nottingham-based organisation, Dance4 and recently began work on the second iteration of Dancing Museums.
She says, “I am honoured to have been awarded this degree by Middlesex University.
As a working dance professional, it never dawned on me that my contribution might be recognised in this way, especially by a university with a dance department as highly regarded as Middlesex’s.
I hope this example will be proof positive, for all the dancers who follow in future, that our hard work over many years is truly valued.”
Dido became Chair of NHS Improvement on 30 October 2017.
She is Deputy Chair of The Court of The Bank of England and Chair of the Bank’s Remuneration Committee.
She was Chief Executive of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC from 2010 to May 2017.
Prior to TalkTalk, Dido was Sainsbury's convenience director, having been appointed to Sainsbury's operating board in March 2008.
Dido joined Sainsbury's from Tesco PLC where she held a variety of senior roles both in the UK and international businesses.
Prior to this, she worked at Kingfisher plc and Thomas Cook Limited where she gained considerable retail experience.
She has also served on the boards of The British Land Company PLC and Cheltenham Racecourse.
She is a member of the UK National Holocaust Foundation Board, a trustee of MyAgro an African social enterprise and a Steward of the Jockey Club.
In August 2014, Dido was offered a Peerage and sits in the House of Lords as a Conservative Peer.
She was appointed to the Economic Affairs Committee of the Lords in July 2017.
Dido is married to politician John Penrose, has two children and in what spare time she has left is a jockey and racehorse owner.
Claire has been the Chief Executive of Central and North West London (CNWL) NHS Foundation Trust since January 2007 and is also a registered Nurse.
Over the past 35 plus years she has held a series of positions working in community and mental health, substance misuse and learning disabilities services.
Claire joined CNWL as Director of Nursing and Operations in 1999.
She has a keen interest in social policy and holds a first class honours degree in this area.
In June 2016 she was appointed as National Mental Health Director at NHS England (NHSE) and has been working with the NHSE Mental Health Policy and Programme Team to deliver the 5 Year Forward View for Mental Health and more recently NHS England’s Long Term Plan.
In July 2019 she took on responsibility as the Director with oversight of NHS England’s Learning disability programme.
She was awarded a CBE in the 2019 New Year Honours list for Services to the NHS.
She says, “I am very honoured to be recognised by the University in this way.
I received a first class honours degree in Social Policy from the University in the early 90s, having studied four years part-time, whilst being a ward sister and matron, so this is a particular pleasure for me.
Having spent 35 years in nursing, the importance of education along with compassion, skill and dedication are as important to the profession as ever.”
Lyn Romeo is the Chief Social Worker for Adults at the Department of Health and Social Care and has been in that role since September 2013.
Previously, Lyn worked as the Assistant Director for Adult Social Care in the London Borough of Camden.
She has also worked as an inspector with the Social Services Inspectorate, as well as working in Yorkshire for over 20 years as both a field social worker and in a variety of management roles across children and adults.
Lyn qualified as a social worker after completing a Bachelor of Social Work at the University of New South Wales in Australia.
After working as a hospital social worker, she came to the UK to travel and work and has worked in many different areas of social work over the last 40 years.
She is committed to sustaining university based graduate social work qualifications and improving post qualification knowledge and professional development for social workers including strengthening research approaches in social work practice and growing the research capacity and evidence base in social work with adults especially in health and social care integrated approaches to supporting people to achieve the best possible lives.
She is promoting a return to strengths based social work practice in working with individuals and communities and is keen to promote the role that social workers can play in utilizing community development and group work approaches alongside working with individuals and families, especially in addressing social isolation, loneliness and working with the complexity of people’s lives in the 21 century.
As Chief Social Worker for Adults, Lyn works collaboratively with the Chief Social Worker for Children and Families .
Together they work from the Office of the Chief Social Worker to:
She says, “I am honoured to receive this doctorate from Middlesex, which has a long tradition of educating social workers, especially in health related areas of social work practice including mental health social work.
I am impressed that the university is taking the opportunity to ensure that social work practice is at the heart of working alongside people and communities to promote human rights, social justice and wellbeing for individuals and communities.”
Hayley Tatum started her retail career on the checkouts at Tesco.
What was supposed to be a part-time job before University, turned into a career that has led her to the Board Room.
She is now is responsible for the well-being and development of 146,000 colleagues at Asda as SVP - People.
Hayley moved from the checkouts into a variety of supervisory and management roles at Tesco, before becoming HR Director for UK and Ireland.
She made the swap from blue to green in 2011, when she joined Asda.
Although Hayley’s ‘temp job’ at Tesco delayed her start at University by a few years, she now holds a Master’s Degree in Human Resource Management and is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Personnel & Development and a qualified NLP practitioner.
Passionate about skills and education she has been a member of the Ambassadors Apprenticeship Network since 2007 and is a member and former chair of Business in the Community Employment & Skills Leadership team.
She was appointed Non-Executive Director to the Cabinet Office and advisor to Department of Work and Pensions in November 2017, she Chairs the Asda LGBT group and is a trustee for charity Tommy’s.
Hayley lives in Buckinghamshire, with her husband and two children.
She says, "My relationship with Middlesex University began as a student and over the years has developed into a trusted learning partnership.
I’m so proud that many of the current and future leaders I work with have also had the benefit with the Middlesex team."
Gerard Woodward is a novelist, poet and short story writer.
He is best known for his trilogy of semi-autobiographical novels concerning the troubled Jones family; the second of which, was shortlisted for the Man Booker Prize in 2004 and was recently included in The Sunday Times list of the 100 best novels of the 21st Century.
Gerard studied Art and Design foundation course at Middlesex Polytechnic before going on to study for a BA Fine Art at Falmouth School of Art.
A radical change of direction led him to abandon this course and study social anthropology at London School of Economics instead.
He has since published six novels, five collections of poetry and two collections of short stories.
His poetry has earned him a Gregory Award, a Somerset Maugham award and two T.S.Eliot Prize shortlistings.
Described by The Daily Telegraph as ‘one of our finest writers’, his work often centres on the ironies and absurdities of everyday life, sometimes applying darkly surrealistic twists to otherwise ordinary situations.
Gerard has won widespread acclaim for a body of work that now spans nearly thirty years.
He is currently professor of creative writing at Bath Spa University.
He says, "[The honorary award] is a source of great pleasure that the institution I left as an unknown but hopeful apprentice artist forty years ago has welcomed me back and given me this honour.
The training I received on the foundation course opened my eyes to the world in a way that has been invaluable to me as a writer."
Caroline graduated as a nurse in 1987 from Edinburgh University (BSc/RGN) and has an MSc in Nursing Studies from South Bank University (2001).
Caroline took up her current role of Chief Nurse for Barts Health in March 2016.
From 1987 to 1993, she specialised in nursing older people in Edinburgh and then London at Guy’s Hospital as a ward sister.
Caroline then worked for the Foundation of Nursing Studies for three years supporting nurses to use research in practice.
In 1998, Caroline returned to the NHS and worked in Tower Hamlets in a range of roles within older people’s services.
In 2005, Caroline took up her first Director post as Director of Nursing and Therapies within Tower Hamlets Primary Care Trust.
With the clustering of Primary Care Trusts in London in 2011, she took on the Director of Nursing and Quality within NHS East London and the City initially, and then within NHS North East London when the clusters merged in 2012.
Caroline was the Chief Nurse for NHS London for six months until she joined NHS England as Regional Chief Nurse for London in April 2013.
She was delighted to have returned to the East End and to work at the Trust in 2016 when she became Chief Nurse for Barts Health.
Caroline was a 2008 Florence Nightingale Leadership Scholar.
She was a Visiting Professor at City University until 2012 and is now a Visiting Professor at Bucks New University.
She was awarded an Honorary Doctor of Science by City University in February 2017 for her contribution to nursing.
She says, “I feel truly honoured to receive this Honorary Degree from Middlesex University.
The partnership I have developed with Middlesex University during my time at NHSE in London and more recently at Bart’s Health has underpinned much of the innovation we are bringing to nursing across the capital through Capital Nurse and locally in North East London through education and research”.
David Blunkett was awarded a peerage in the dissolution Honours List in 2015, taking the title of Lord Blunkett of Brightside and Hillsborough in the City of Sheffield.
He also in that year took up a post as Professor of Politics in Practice at the University of Sheffield Department of Politics and became Chair of the board of the University of Law (formerly the College of Law) based in London.
Anne Boden is a most unusual banker.
After a distinguished 30–year career in traditional banking, including as Chief Operating Officer of Allied Irish Banks, she set out to build her own mobile–only bank from scratch in 2014.
Starling Bank launched its personal current account in May 2017 and less than a year later was named Best British Bank in the Smart Money People awards.
After gaining a bachelor’s degree in Computer Science and Chemistry from Swansea University, Anne joined Lloyds Bank in 1985.
It was there that she had the opportunity to be part of the team that pioneered the UK’s first same–day payment service, which transformed the future of electronic money.
Throughout a career that took her to the banks Standard Chartered, UBS, ABN Amro, RBS and AIB as well as to the global professional services company AON and the consultancy PwC, she never lost the enthusiasm for disrupting the status quo.
She studied her MBA at Middlesex University in 1987 to 1990 while working at Standard Chartered and in 2011, she served on the University’s Board of Governors.
It was during her time as Chief Operating Officer of Allied Irish Banks in 2012 and 2013 where she began to explore the potential of financial technology for transforming customers’ everyday lives and set out to create a new kind of bank.
She says, “when I first stepped through the doors of Middlesex University as a young banker in 1987, little did I think that I would one day build a bank from scratch.
As I fought my way through bureaucracy, in–built prejudices and widespread suspicion to get Starling funded and off the ground, I was so grateful for the lessons I learned at Middlesex”.
Andy has used a wide range of tools and creative concepts to achieve major changes in corporate culture and performance.
He has delivered high levels of colleague engagement across global and multi–cultural teams that have supported those He has been regularly considered one of the most influential HR practitioners in the UK and is a regular speaker on cultural change and business transformation.
Andy has worked in operational and senior HR executive roles in the technology, real estate, construction and leisure retail sectors.
Andy was a member of the Board of Middlesex University and is currently a Trustee of Loughborough Students’ Union.
He has been involved in supporting public sector organisations facing transformation as a Non–Executive Director in the social housing and education sectors.
He was also a Non–Executive Director of the Broadcast Equality and Training Regulatory.
Andy holds a degree in Economics from Loughborough University, is a Chartered Director, a Fellow of the Institute of Directors and a Chartered Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development.
He says, “I am very honoured to receive this award from Middlesex University.
The University has been at the forefront of work–place learning and finding creative solutions to business challenges.
I have seen the real difference that working with the University has created in the workplace”.
Imogen Heap blurs the boundaries between pure art form and creative entrepreneurship.
Writing and producing four solo albums, Imogen has developed a strong collaboration with her loyal following both on and offline in recognised, pioneering ways.
Her graceful tunes such as signature track Hide & Seek populate movies and TV shows, accompany dance and theatre performances.
A respected ‘artist’s artist’, Imogen has penned songs with Taylor Swift, Mika, Josh Groban and Deadmau5 among others.
Imogen has been nominated for five Grammys, winning one for engineering and another for her contribution on Taylor Swift’s 1989 album.
In her self–built home studio also sits an Ivor Novello award, The Artist and Manager Pioneer award, the MPG Inspiration award.
She also holds an Honorary Doctorate of Technology in recognition of the mi.mu gloves work: a gestural music making system developed by Imogen for her studio and stage work along with a team of engineers, scientists and musicians.
The project has attracted worldwide attention from artists to universities and within the press for humanising music technology in performance.
Imogen has also written the score for Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, which has set new standards in theatre.
Becoming a mother in 2014, combined with being free of labels and management for the first time in her 20 year career, she released her song Tiny Human as an experiment for Mycelia: her vision for a sustainable music industry ecosystem.
Wishing to explore potentials for new business models in light of distributed ledger technology and smart contracts, Imogen released the song complete with a rich set of metadata to empower services to think differently and invite them to collaborate with her for further developments of their services.
She says, “I’ve always felt inspired, encouraged and supported by Middlesex University in the work and play we’ve done together and I’m deeply honoured to be recognised in this way.
I look forward to the next chapter in our explorations”.
Mark studied BA Law at Middlesex Polytechnic between 1984 and 1987 and split his articles between London and Manchester qualifying as a general commercial litigator who did some libel and some privacy.
Along the way, he undertook cases that were part of the need to reform libel law, obtained the first reported super injunction and according to the New York Times invented the Tort of Phone Hacking, negotiating the largest settlement in media law — £3 million — closing the News of the World, giving evidence to Parliament and the Leveson Inquiry.
More recently, successfully representing Jack Monroe in her Twibel (twitter libel) claim against Katie Hopkins and currently representing Martin Lewis in his claim against Facebook.
Mark has been profiled in newspapers in four continents and appeared on television in all six.
He says, “I’m delighted to be awarded an honorary degree from Middlesex University, which is where I learned about law and the importance of finding the answer to the problems that exist”.
A graduate of London University, Penny’s first career was in the Royal Navy with appointments in intelligence, nuclear war planning, public relations, university units and personnel policy.
With further academic qualifications, she became the first woman barrister in the navy and was promoted to commander but blindness ended her career early and she is now a war pensioner.
Undaunted, she has run Disability Dynamics for nearly 20 years, helping other disabled people to get back to work particularly through self–employment and was awarded an OBE.
Most recently, she started her Baking Blind YouTube channel to demonstrate that disability is no bar to ambition.
She consequently won the international Holman prize that funded her cooking and promotional tour across six continents last year.
Now nearly recovered from a major car accident in 2017, she has over 50 videos of her life–changing adventures and culinary partnerships to broadcast to a growing international following.
Penny’s public life activities have also included international roles as a UK delegate to the European and World Blind Unions, speaker at conferences on disability employment and promotion of blind people at work.
In the UK, she has delivered disability advice, training and consultancy to the Ministry of Defence, Olympic Delivery Authority, regional government, national policing and the private and voluntary sectors.
She was Chair of the South East War Pensions Committee and of the Hampshire Learning and Skills Council.
She is a member of the HMRC Board, the Employment Tribunal Steering Board, the Office for Disability Issues advisory group, the DWP Standards Committee and more.
She says, “I am hugely grateful to Middlesex University for recognising that work in the disability field has both national and global significance.
There are some one billion people around the world who struggle to fulfil their potential.
Every one of us can make a difference by turning inclusive attitudes into tangible practical actions”.
Chief Rabbi Ephraim Mirvis was born and raised in South Africa and he studied and received his Semicha (Rabbinic ordination) in Israel.
He has served as Chief Rabbi of Ireland and Rabbi of the Marble Arch and Finchley Synagogues in London.
Now in his fifth year as Chief Rabbi of Great Britain and the Commonwealth, he has developed a reputation as a principled spiritual leader who has broken new ground in the areas of interfaith social and responsibility.
He has prioritised the development and strengthening of Jewish communities under his aegis, from Hull to Hong Kong and from Cardiff to Cochin.
Chief Rabbi Mirvis is a champion of faith communities, striking an essential balance between the particular values that make them unique and the universal human values we all share.
He serves as Associate President of the Conference of European Rabbis and he is President of the London School of Jewish Studies.
He is considered a religious figurehead for Jewish communities across the world and is a regular contributor to press and broadcast media.
Upon receiving the honorary degree, the Chief Rabbi says, “this is a great honour, which I am privileged to accept on behalf of the wider Jewish community that often finds in Middlesex University a real partner in social and communal responsibility.
I look forward to cultivating that warm relationship for many years to come”.
Designers Edward Barber and Jay Osgerby founded their London studio in 1996.
Their diverse body of work spans industrial design, furniture, lighting and site–specific installations as well as gallery and public commissions such as the London 2012 Olympic Torch and projects for the Royal Mint.
They are currently working with leading global manufacturers including Vitra, Knoll, B&B Italia and Flos.
Their work is held in permanent museum collections around the world including the Victoria and Albert Museum and the Design Museum in London, Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York and Art Institute of Chicago.
In 2001, Barber and Osgerby established the architecture and interior design practice Universal Design Studio and in 2012, they founded Map Project Office, specialising in research and strategy–led design.
In 2007, they were awarded Royal Designers for Industry by the Royal Society of Arts and in 2013, the designers were each awarded an OBE for their services to the design industry.
They both hold honorary doctorates of art and lecture internationally.
In September 2017, Barber and Osgerby published their latest monograph with Phaidon: Barber Osgerby, Projects written by Jana Scholze.
The book deviates from the expected chronological format and explores the designers output under the three chapters of Folded Structures, Frameworks and Volumes and features six essays which started as conversations with collaborators from outside the studio.
Joy Warmington is CEO of brap, a charity transforming the way we think and do equality.
Under Joy’s leadership, brap has established itself at the cutting edge of equalities practice, supporting organisations including NHS England, Macmillan Cancer Support and the Department of Education.
In the last two years alone, brap has worked with over 60 NHS trusts, helping to reduce inequality and deliver more inclusive patient care.
Joy’s career spans the community sector, local government and further education.
All her roles have focused on equity, working with marginalised communities, expanding curriculum and promoting educational opportunities.
Joy is also Vice–Chair of Birmingham and Solihull Mental Health Foundation Trust and has been Chair of Children in Need (central region) and a member of NHS England’s Workforce Race Equality Standard Advisory Group.
Joy has authored over 30 reports and articles on equalities practice and organisational culture.
As a result of all this work, the Birmingham Post named her as one of the 250 most influential people in the West Midlands.
Speaking about the award, Joy says, “it’s a great honour to be awarded a degree by Middlesex University.
Over the years, we have found research produced by the University’s Business School invaluable in our work supporting organisations to become inclusive.
I see this award as another sign of the University’s commitment to equality and a vote of confidence in brap and our work”.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/staff-directory/mr-john-abbott:
Performance Management
Programme Leader MA HRM (CIPD)
Programme Leader CMDA (BA Professional Management Practice)
CIPD & CMI Chartered Member
Hertfordshire University
Dissertation Supervision & Sessional Lecturer
2012 – 2017
Reed International
Freelance Trainer
Barnet and Southgate College
CIPD Programme Leader and Main Grade Lecturer (Business)
2004-2017
The Centre for Market Analysis
Account Manager, Consultant & Trainer
2000 – 2004
Film Education
IT, HRM Development, Business Development and Event Mgt.
1993 -2000
Freelance Assistant Film Director/Producer
1990 – 1993
Selfridges & Harrods
Section Leader
1985 – 1990
Title: MA HRM (CIPD)
Date: 31 Jul 2013
Institution: Hertfordshire University
Title: PG Cert Education
Date: 01 Jul 2006
Title: PG dip HRM (CIPD)
Date: 01 Jul 2003
Title: BA Management with HRM
Date: 01 Jul 1999

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/staff-directory/mrs-jo-abdul-rahim:
Department Accounting, Finance & Economics
Research Interests
Accounting Education
International Financial Reporting
Jo specialises in teaching financial reporting and accounting, drawing on her professional qualification and practical experience.
Advanced Financial accounting is highly technical module which carries exemptions from the main professional bodies.
The topics covered include consolidation, international accounting, corporate social responsibility and accounting for leases, provisions, non-current assets, inventory and financial instruments.
Jo has previously taught financial accounting at all undergraduate levels and at postgraduate level as well as taxation to undergraduate accounting and finance students.
Jo Abdul-Rahim graduated from the University of Exeter with a BSc (Hons) in Mathematics and Mathematical Statistics.
She is a qualified Chartered Accountant and a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
She worked in practice at Deloitte in London where she gained experience in auditing a diverse range of FTSE listed UK businesses.
She later worked as group accountant for Rexam plc before returning joining Middlesex University.
Jo is currently the acting Head of Department, Accounting and Finance in the Faculty of Business and Law.
She maintains strong links with the main accounting professional bodies and with colleagues in other academic institutions.
She and the team have been awarded a CIMA Employability Global Silver Excellence award in 2021, which recognises academic partners who actively promote employer involvement and engagement between CIMA students and industry partners in the profession.
In 2022 we followed this with a CIMA Campus Culture Excellence Award (Global Champion) which recognises our innovative series of campus events to help accounting and finance students across all years understand the value of a career in accounting.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/staff-directory/dr-david-adams:
Department Business School Research
Transdisciplinary Practice
Action Research
Narrative Inquiry
Deputy Head of Transdisciplinary Programmes
Programme Director, DProf Transdisciplinary Practice
Currently supervising (DoS) for 15 DProf (TD) candidates

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/staff-directory/mr-seun-ade-onojobi:
Department School of Design
Lecturer in Art & Design Foundation, BA Fashion and Fashion Communication & Styling
Fashion and textile designer from London.
Co-creator and designer for Typical Freaks.
MA Fashion graduate from Central Saint Martins.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/staff-directory/mrs-manjida-ahamed:
Manjida leads two modules:
Publications
M.Ahamed, The Failure of an Electoral Government to Protect Human Rights Led to the Emergence of People’s Uprisings: Bangladesh Context (Asian Yearbok of Human Rights and Humanitarian Law, Vol.
9, Forthcoming in 2025)
M.Ahamed, The July Revolution: Use of Lethal Force and Right to Life (Cambridge International Law Journal Blog, 2025)
M.Ahamed, Individual Criminal Responsibility of the Former Prime Minister of Bangaldesh for Crimes against Humanity (Oxford Human Rights Hub, 2025)
Ahamed, Rape and Other Forms of Sexual Offences as International Crimes and the Impact of Human Rights Law in the Book ‘ Human Rights after 75 Years of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights: Reflections from the South’ (BRILL, 2024)
M.Ahamed, International Crimes Tribunals Bangladesh and the Application of Customary International Law (Cambridge International Law Journal Blog, 2022)
Ahamed, Lack of Civilian Protection in 1971 (2017) Centre for Genocide Studies, CGS Paper 1
Manjida Ahamed is a Lecturer in Law at the School of Law, Middlesex University, London.
She joined Middlesex University in 2021 on a full-time basis and previously taught at Middlesex University as an Hourly Paid Lecturer.
Before taking up this position, she was a Lecturer in Law at the Department of Law, Daffodil International University, Bangladesh (2012-2021).
She was also a Junior Research Fellow at the Centre for Genocide Studies, University of Dhaka (2015-2016).
Her research interests focus mainly on international criminal law, customary international law and international human rights law.
She also worked as a visiting Lecturer at the Catholic University of Lille, France.
MSt in International Human Rights Law ( University of Oxford - 2022) PhD in International Criminal Law (Middlesex University, United Kingdom - 2021); LLM International Crime and Justice (University of Turin, Italy and United Nations Interregional Crime and Justice Research Institute - 2015); LLM (University of Dhaka Bangladesh - 2012); LLB (Hons) (University of Dhaka, Bangladesh - 2011)

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/staff-directory/ms-bushra-ahmad:
Bushra is currently working on completing the final stages of her PhD in Law and Criminology.
Her research interest includes Crime and Social Responsibility focusing on Domestic Violence and Abuse, Rape, Murder and GBH.
Currently, Bushra is leading and managing core BusinessStrategy modules.
Her teaching interests include International Strategy Management,Globalised Enterprises, Social and Ethical Responsibility and Emerging Markets.Bushra is serving as the Module Leader for London, Dubai and Mauritius campuses.
Bushra Ahmad is currently working as a university lecturer at the Business School- Middlesex University, London.
She holds an MA in Human Resources Management, PGCE HE and a BSc Hons.
Bushra has over 18 years of Higher Education teaching experience across various universities in UK and has previously worked with universities in UAE, USA, Hong Kong and Pakistan.
Besides lecturing commitments, Bushra has also served as the External Panel member at undergraduate and postgraduate validation events in the UK and internationally and has also served as an External Examiner.
Currently, Bushra is leading and managing core Strategy modules in London, Dubai and Mauritius and is supervising undergraduate and postgraduate research students.
Bushra is also writing the final chapter of her PhD in Law, Criminology and Social Responsibility from the School of Law.
Prior to working as a lecturer, Bushra has extensive experience working in Banking, Finance, HRM and Recruitment.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-faculties/faculty-of-arts-and-creative-industries:
We are a creative community, led by practitioners in the creative industries, who inspire and challenge our students in a friendly, inclusive and practice-led environment.
Our teaching is underpinned by scholarship, innovative pedagogy, and leading research of national and international significance.
In a broad and exciting portfolio of programmes ranging from Animation to Film, Fine Art to Digital Media, we emphasise creativity, interdisciplinary study, practical experience and the interrelation of practice and theory alongside the development of specialist and transferable skills, preparing graduates for work in the contemporary creative industries.
Our industry-standard facilities enable students and researchers to shape their disciplines using the most relevant equipment and technology, with full technical support.
Collaboration is encouraged and supported at every level, across disciplines, organisations, structures and cultures.
Our work not only reflects, but through our graduates' employment and our staff engagement in consultancy and collaborative research, directly shapes arts and the creative industries.
Industry links make sure that our curriculum, our facilities and our research remain at the leading edge of these fast-changing disciplines.
We are committed to putting our students first, by providing them with a creative environment that will prepare them for successful careers in their fields and will develop their critical thinking through doing and making.
Where experimental creative energy meets world-class research and professional guidance.
We focus on acquiring and developing the skills and industry knowledge to exhibit, perform or publish.
Our diverse School of Design offers courses on everything from fashion to graphic design to marketing and branding - and much more.
Work alongside active professionals and gain real-world-experience.
In the School of Film, we strike a balance between creative practice, critical thinking and professionalism, aiming to equip our graduates in films, games and photography with the skills to succeed.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-faculties/faculty-of-business-and-law:
We group together subjects from the Business School and the Department of Law and Social Sciences.
The Faculty is ambitious to be recognised for the high quality of its education, research, knowledge exchange and engagement.
Offering a range of innovative on campus and distance education programmes, the Faculty has a growing degree apprenticeship portfolio and is lead partner in the Police Education Consortium, which delivers the Police Constable Degree Apprenticeship programme with three forces.
The Faculty works closely with the University’s international campuses and has academic partnership activity in the UK and internationally.
With strong links with businesses and public sector bodies, the Faculty provides practical real-world learning that prepares students to become change makers and to create and share their knowledge between the professional and academic worlds.
Building on a strong performance in REF2021, much of the research activity in the Faculty is centred on Unit of Assessment (UoA) 17 Business and Management Studies, UoA 18 Law and UoA 20 Social Work and Social Policy.
Our impactful research was ranked No.1 nationally on GPA in Business and Management with 78.6% assessed at 4*.
Our knowledge exchange consistently addresses issues of social justice, equality, diversity and inclusion, law and society, sustainability and prosperity through active engagement with business and a range of private, public and voluntary organisations.
From politics to policing, criminology to sociology, and through the lens of law and development, we explore the factors that inhibit equality of opportunity and impact the human experience.
We are recognised for excellence.
The impact of Middlesex Business School research was ranked number 1 in the UK for quality in the latest REF.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-faculties/school-of-health-and-education:
We offer exciting and wide-ranging undergraduate and postgraduate courses in education and teaching, health and social work based on foundations of excellent scholarship, research and practice-based learning.
Working in partnership is fundamental to everything that we do in the Faculty of Health, Social Care and Education; we could not achieve the things we do if we worked in isolation.
Our aim is to support our students, staff and partners to achieve their full potential and, in so doing, make a difference in the world.
With an innovative approach to developing highly-skilled professionals, we're able to transform people's lives through their work in education, interpreting and translation, nursing, midwifery, mental health, social work and integrative medicine.
Partnering with a variety of schools, education settings, charitable, private and public sector organisations, we have a history of pioneering excellence that is recognised worldwide.
We consistently strive for excellence, always placing the needs of our students first.
This is achieved in courses and research that promote diversity and inclusiveness.
Training teachers since the 1950s, our long-established reputation provides high quality teaching and learning programmes with outstanding resources for our staff and students.
Our department is an innovative and thriving centre of academic excellence in mental health and social work training.
Our global research and knowledge exchange network works towards a brighter future for people around the world.
Find out about what we do:

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-faculties/faculty-of-science-and-technology:
Much of our work is guided by the notion that people have an essential part to play in modern engineering and technology.
Within our Faculty we are attempting to integrate the study of people, both as individuals and societies, with that of artefacts and the sciences that are involved.
We bring together leading academics from a wide variety of backgrounds, working together to ensure that broad perspectives of systems are used, to challenge thinking and formulate approaches to science, engineering, design and analysis that are fit for purpose in our modern world.
Explore our departments

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/business-management-ba-honours:
With hands-on learning, start-up modules, and paid work placements, this course will boost your entrepreneurial skills to help you build a successful career
Launch your career in the fast-paced world of business with our Business Management BA (hons) degree.
This course offers a combination of essential skills, and hands-on learning, preparing you to excel in a range of working environments.
We have an excellent employability service called MDX works .
Our dedicated team will help you build the confidence, skills and experience you need to succeed.
They will help you secure internships, part-time work, and paid work placements, as well as personalised support to help you achieve your career goals.
For those wanting to start their own business, we also have an accelerator programme called MDXelecrator where you can attend workshops, masterclasses, and win up to £20,000 to support your new venture.
Last year (2024), two Business Management students won the London campus competition and gained £3500 to build their app to support people with disabilities.
Join a community of innovative thinkers and prepare for a successful career with a degree that equips you for the fast-paced, ever-changing world of business management.
Study the latest in digital technologies and business simulations, and tailor your course to suit your career aspirations
Get involved in hand-on, real life management projects, international internships and study-abroad opportunities
My name is Satkeen Azizadeh and I'm a Senior Lecturer in Human Resources.
What makes Middlesex a great place to learn?
Our courses are very much based on practice-based learning and authentic assessments.
There are sets of graduate capabilities and competencies that we have listed.
And these are at the core and at the foundation of all our programmes and our curriculum.
So the help you get at Middlesex University is amazing.
HARPREET The teachers, they are very polite with you and the academics help you get good grades.
They keep pushing you even though you ask them multiple questions.
They are always ready to help you.
So I really like how the lecturers are really, really open.
I've been to every lecturer's office hours just going, "Can you please look at my work?
Can you just, how is this going?
Can I just..." and constantly getting the feedback that actually helped me get my grades up quite a bit.
Most exciting thing about working at Middlesex?
We have more than 100 nationalities in our classrooms, and this is something that we take a lot of pride in and we truly embrace this.
This diverse group of students, they bring diverse perspectives into our classrooms, so they enrich the discussions in the classroom.
As an international student, I have been focused on using all the facilities that are available and it's just been life-changing for me to be here.
What makes Middlesex unique?
We were ranked number one in the Research Excellence Framework of 2021, in terms of impact.
Staff at Middlesex University are very research-focused, and this research actually informs their teaching and the design of their curriculum assessment.
And we see this in their everyday teaching in the classroom.
REVA I did do an internship.
So there I learned a lot of practical skills and the university helped me through that with MDXworks.
The university itself has given me a lot of confidence and a lot of skills.
I feel very confident in going into the professional world.
How do you help students prepare for the future?
We have our practice-based learning and assessments, authentic assessments that link everything that we teach in the classroom to what's happening in the industry, to make sure that we actually close that gap and bridge that academic knowledge with what is needed and demanded in the industry.
This course equips you with a strong foundation in management principles, practical techniques and problem solving skills to tackle real-world business challenges.
Choose the 3-year programme, 3-year programme with work experience, or 4 year programme with year-long work placement.
This module provides a foundational understanding of business data and the state of digital technologies.
The module will equip you with the skills to effectively collect data, analyse, communicate, and interpret statistical information to address a wide range of business and management challenges.
By introducing the integral role of digital technologies in modern and innovative business environments, the module provides insights into both the current state and the evolving landscape of technological advancements and its implications on business.
This module develops your financial knowledge within business organisations to enable them to make effective decisions and to assess the cost, economic and financial implications of these decisions.
It provides you with an understanding of accounting and finance for business as well as learning the key economic principles that inform business thought and practice.
This module introduces you to management concepts, such as business functions, organisational structure, and work design approaches, stressing the importance of effective organisational communication, teamwork and the development of conflict management and negotiation strategies.
You will learn to use various managerial tools to assess the organisational environment and enhance performance.
The module highlights the vital role of corporate social responsibility and ethics for long-term business sustainability.
This module provides you with an overview of key marketing concepts and apply them in a variety of organisations.
The module provides you with an initial introduction to the fundamentals of marketing and will provide a key foundation that is relevant across a variety of business courses.
You will develop knowledge and understanding of the core role of marketing, including the value of the marketing mix in ensuring successful marketing strategies, as well as the significance of external and internal environment for marketing practice.
This module introduces you to key concepts, principles, and methodologies associated with innovation, entrepreneurship and sustainability, essential for the success of new ventures and existing organisations.
You will develop your ability to analyse business and sustainability issues, evaluate potential solutions, and understand how to implement effective solutions.
The module explores the role of innovation, entrepreneurship, and sustainability across a range of industries and professions.
The module will enable you to incorporate innovation, entrepreneurship, and sustainability throughout your careers.
The module equips you with the skills to use analytics and visualisation tools to convert data to insights that can support strategic business decisions.
Emphasising the significant impact of data-driven insights on operational and strategic initiatives, the curriculum will navigate through key analytics concepts, from data visualisation and predictive modelling to customer analytics and segmentation.
With a hands-on approach, the course will immerse you in the practicalities of management analytics, utilising advanced tools and techniques to extract and interpret data from various sources.
This module will further develop and enhance your financial understanding and knowledge within business organisations on the subject areas of financial accounting, management accounting and financial management.
It will provide a more in-depth understanding of the roles of accounting and finance for students who do not need to develop specialist knowledge and train you to apply your accounting and finance knowledge and skills into a range of different business situations.
This module deepens your understanding of customer experience (CX) and enhances your practical skills in managing each stage of the customer journey, from awareness to post-purchase.
It also explores the role of Customer Relationship Management (CRM) within CX to help you develop effective strategies for customer acquisition and retention.
This module will develop your understanding of the key areas of the workplace and to develop your skills and competence in resourcing and talent management practice.
You will become familiar with a wide range of HR policies and practices including sustainable employee resourcing, employee reward, employee relations, performance management and employee training and development.
You will also develop competencies in areas such as selection interviews, performance appraisals, managing conflict, and conducting grievance and disciplinary interviews, designing training courses and wellbeing programmes.
This module helps you to learn decision-making skills by evaluating options, weighing risks and rewards, and making informed choices in a dynamic and competitive business setting by fostering a comprehensive understanding of strategic management theory in changing operational contexts.
The module will develop your ability to communicate business strategy and firm performance to key stakeholders via the application of cross-functional knowledge and evaluation of market trends, competitor behaviour and internal resources and capabilities to identify potential competitive advantage.
This module engages you with the multifaceted aspects of the work environment through the lens of psychological theories and principles.
Central to the module is a focus on the interplay of emotions, attitudes, and behaviours in driving individual, team, and organisational performance.
The module discusses leadership theories and their practical execution, equipping you with the insights to effectively lead, influence and inspire individuals and teams.
The module provides you with a holistic view of branding concepts and theoretical frameworks within the context of an evolving digital and analogue communication landscape.
Consumer brands play an important role in creating and influencing consumer expectations and are more than just labels on the products and services we consume.
You will explore the art of brand communication through storytelling and content creation across multiple digital platforms and understand how brand narratives emotionally link with consumer aspirations, as well as create increased levels of loyalty, engagement and brand value in today’s globalised and dynamic digital era.
This module provides a critical understanding of contemporary corporate finance and the tools to solve the financial problems confronting business today.
You will develop your understanding of the main aspects of corporate finance, including investment decision, financing choices, and dividend decision.
Within this module, you will develop a critical appreciation of the interaction between financial decision-making and capital market behaviour.
Additionally, you will be able to rationalise and apply your financial skills to practical problem-solving, case studies and coursework.
You will gain knowledge of corporate finance within business environments in preparation for a future career.
This module develops your knowledge on cross cultural and ethical theory to equip you with critical thinking skills.
One of the central features of modern management is an emphasis on organisational justice, fairness, ethics and social responsibility combined with an awareness that how people lead and manage may vary across cultures.
The module enhances your understanding of the complex business environment and global business acumen.
This module will provide you with a comprehensive understanding of the processes of design, planning, implementation and evaluation of projects in a variety of sectors.
You will explore how projects are managed using up‐to‐date project management techniques and technologies.
The module will develop awareness of the role of projects in the wider economy, and to enable you to develop critical thinking, leadership, and problem-solving skills, necessary to lead projects efficiently and effectively in diverse and challenging environments.
This module provides you with practical experience in applying business theories and skills to real-world business contexts.
You will work on a project to identify, analyse, and propose solutions to a business problem.
Through hands-on experience, you will develop critical thinking, problem-solving, communication, and project management skills essential for success in business management.
This module offers you the opportunity to engage in a real, client-driven consultancy project.
You will work to a project brief provided by external clients, developing practical solutions.
The module enables you to apply theoretical knowledge to organisational challenges while enhancing skills in teamwork, problem-solving, and communication.
Additionally, it provides insights into the complexities of client management and project delivery.
This module is for you to undertake an approved work experience and personal and professional development activities, for a minimum of 30 days full time employment.
To find out more about this highly versatile course, please download the BA Business Management (PDF)
"Every aspect of the course has been exciting.
I particularly enjoyed the third year modules.
Strategic Management gave me a deep insight into the workings of a business environment and Leadership Management helped me discover my strengths and weaknesses in order to become an effective leader in the future.
I loved working closely with academics, who are leaders in their field.
They ensured the entire course provided not only academic theory but also practical and relevant information specifically designed and tailored towards my future career."
Peter Fernandes
Business Management BA graduate
You’ll be taught by an experienced team of academics and professionals through lectures, seminars, practical workshops, and computer lab sessions.
You will gain knowledge, understanding ands skills through: On-campus seminars, workshops and computer lab-based sessions.
A variety of interactive practice-based activities are used to develop in-depth and practice-based knowledge and understanding and stimulate an exchange of ideas and development of critical thinking skills, including Q&A sessions, polls, quizzes, games, simulations, use of software, role plays, guest speakers and case studies.
You'll further develop resilience in qualitative and quantitative analysis, problem solving and decision-making skills, via key concept videos and other curated online material via the My Learning facility.
Guided reading of textbooks, academic journals, case studies and company and industry documents will introduce and examine key concepts and theories and how they relate to real world scenarios.
Through most of the term, you will only need to be on-campus for classes 3 days per week.
This course is based on 100% coursework.
You will be assessed through a variety of methods including written assessments, essays, reports, practical sessions, presentations and group assessments.
You will be given regular feedback on your work.
You will develop IT skills and the ability to interpret numerical data.
Assessments are reviewed annually and may be updated based on student feedback or feedback from an external examiner.
If you don't meet the entry requirements, why not consider our Business Foundation course to help you prepare for the full degree?
Find out more about prior learning accreditation .
Interviews are not required for this course.
We welcome students from the UK, EU and all over the world.
112 UCAS points including GCSE Grade C/4 in English
We accept a wide range of international qualifications such as A level and International Baccalaureate.
You can find out more on your country's support page .
That's usually an IELTS 6.0 qualification (with a minimum of 5.5 in all sections).
If you're applying for September 2024 apply via UCAS using the UCAS code N200.
Our degree in business management can lead to a range of career options, including Operations Manager, Junior Operations Manager, HR Consultant, Trainee Manager, Depot Manager, Practice Manager, Housing Officer, L&D Adviser, Investment Banker, Sales Manager, Analyst and Graduate Teaching Assistant.
You could work at large multinational companies, small businesses, or third sector organisations.
You can also start your own business!
The Director of the Enterprise Development Hub estimates that there are around 100 start-ups from students on our business management course.
Here is a snapshot of some of our most successful student businesses:
Enola's kitchen - Home-cooked food with a focus on environmental sustainability, and supporting the local community in East London
Naya London - Hair cosmetics boutique supporting and empowering women across the world
Mahsa Jewellery - Jewellery shop in Camden Town who use the finest materials, from modern to classic to bespoke designs
Guasa Group - A family-run enterprise that has evolved into six locations, serving Latin American, Greek and international cuisines.
Middlesex University is one of the top 20 universities in the UK for graduates looking to become business leaders and entrepreneurs (Novuna, 2023).
We are proud to have a thriving entrepreneurial society - Enactus - that generate social & environmental change through entrepreneurial action.
Our students have won national awards and funding from AIG, BIC, Colgate Palmolive, and Schroders.
They have also participated in Leadership training at Amazon, HSBC and Unilever, and in project accelerator workshops.
Whatever you choose to do, our business management degree can open doors to a wide range of careers, prepare you to build your own career, and give you the tools to succeed.
As a part of our commitment to an excellent student offer at Middlesex University, we pledge to invest the additional money from tuition fee increases into the student experience, and we are consulting at present on what these improvements will be and will follow up with further details
Additional costs are voluntary trips and opportunities, such as visits to prisons etc.
Estimated costs are from £30 (for example, a trip to a prison) to £400 (for example, if accommodation is included).

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/computer-science-bsc:
Join our highly ranked, expert-led Computer Science BSc and get ready for your future career in technology
In our Computer Science BSc, you'll gain the skills and experience to build a career in technology.
From software development, computer security, systems engineering, and much more, there are so many computer science job opportunities.
This degree will open doors to a wide range of high-demand industries, making it a standout choice for aspiring tech professionals.
Our Computer Science course has received outstanding feedback from National Student Survey 2024, showcasing the high quality of our programme:
Step into the dynamic world of technology with our Computer Science BSc, and join one of the best universities in London for computer science.
Upon graduation you'll have the skills and knowledge to build a successful and exciting career.
Our students go on to work in AI, cybersecurity, and tech innovations at companies like Amazon, Arm, Jaguar, and much more.
The course provides a thorough grounding in the practical and theoretical fundamentals of computer science and helps you to develop knowledge and skills relevant to current industry requirements.
Within your first year, you will be introduced towards the fundamentals of computer science, contextualizing the mathematical and scientific theories underpinning the discipline through practice-led modules whereby you will develop microcontroller-based robotic systems and computer software through the design, development, implementation and evaluation lifecycle stages across modules within the year.
In this module you will learn the key foundational concepts in programming and will apply your knowledge to construct, analyse and debug programs.
In this module you will design and develop software applications that reinforce computer programming concepts.
You'll gain insights into the lifecycle of software development, system specification design, user interface and software prototyping and evaluation in a supported and structured environment.
This module provides you with a practical understanding of the organisation of computer-based systems, from small-scale (for example gates, processors and memory), through the medium-scale (for example personal computer organisation), to large-scale (for example the internet).
In your second year you will study modules to become a proficient computer scientist.
You will be taught to understand and practice developing computer systems across different platforms through a range of programming languages , algorithms, data structures and software engineering principles .
In this module you will learn the concepts object-oriented programming, including the fundamentals of objects, classes, inheritance, composition, encapsulation and polymorphism.
You will learn some basic object-oriented design principles and patterns and will be able to design, implement non-trivial object-oriented programs.
In this module you will have practical experience in Operating System Management using a 64-bit Linux system, adopting active learning and reinforcing material covered in workshops.
You will learn fundamental networking skills, exploring OSI and TCP/IP models, switching, and routing concepts, laying a strong foundation for understanding network layers.
In this module you will build on the programming fundamentals you learned in your first year, through studying the software development process, software engineering tools and techniques and analysis of algorithms and data structures.
You will learn about designing, implementing, testing, profiling, and optimising software, for polished, accurate and efficient execution.
You will apply several software engineering tools and methodologies to the design, oversight, testing and profiling phases of software development.
You will undertake a relevant work placement to gain work experience in a technical employment role, applying your theoretical knowledge to practical problems and providing solutions.
You will develop your professional qualities, communication skills and work in a management structure and as part of a team.
A placement is the opportunity to learn independently and develop the maturity required to perform well in your final year.
Placements are a minimum of nine months and a maximum of 15 months.
In your third year you will consolidate your skills and knowledge by studying a set of advanced and research-led modules.
You can also choose two optional modules to specialise in diverse computing pathways, each furthering your technical and practical skills through case-based authentic assessments, and support your career development.
You will also embark on your final-year project, which is an opportunity to explore a computer science field of interest through a hands-on project, whilst being guided and mentored by our dedicated course team.
We will ensure you are well-versed in theoretical concepts and possess the practical skills needed to thrive in the workspace and further studies.
In this module you'll gain a deep insight into the evolving and complex landscape of artificial intelligence (AI) and data science technologies.
You will gain a nuanced understanding of the latest advances in data science, machine learning, algorithms, deep learning, techniques and natural language processing, and their practical applications.
You will critically evaluate and skilfully apply these cutting-edge technologies in a variety of real-world scenarios.
You will also learn about equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) practices and the ethical and societal implications of using AI technologies.
This is your opportunity to demonstrate your skills, knowledge and experience from other modules with an individual project.
It must incorporate a solution to a computer science or IT problem or to a theoretical research problem relevant to the computer science or IT discipline.
This module introduces you to a range of AI theories and techniques, including the most used algorithms for search space and optimisation approaches.
You will appraise and critically evaluate each algorithm for effectiveness metrics and learn how to implement these techniques, to enhance your software development knowledge and skills.
Descriptive data models can be used to gain a better understanding of overall organisation and predictive data models inform decision making in all aspects of business.
In this module you will learn techniques and approaches used to capture, store and analyse organisational business intelligence data.
You will learn about information retrieval, data presentation, pattern recognition techniques and data models that can be used in business intelligence applications.
In this module you will develop a deep understanding of the latest full stack programming techniques, frameworks and methodologies used by industry to develop the next generation software, for deployment on a wide range of devices and systems.
You will learn the three fundamental components of a complete architecture for a software application: front-end, back-end, and system administration.
You will investigate, develop and deploy the latest programming language standards, which are fundamental to app development, and widely employed in industry.
You will learn how modern programming frameworks provide the essential software architecture for large-scale software development across a wide range of platforms.
Computer systems are almost never perfect.
They make mistakes, they crash and hang and the implications range from minor to catastrophic.
In this module you will look at the different concepts of correct, and use practical examples to examine automatic and user-guided methods to find potential problems within systems.
Finally you will learn and apply methods for ensuring that no problems can occur within a system.
In this module you will learn fundamental concepts and practical techniques for considering the user perspective when designing products and services.
You will learn how to analyse the user experience through user characteristics and their tasks, and the technical, organisational and physical environment in which products or systems operate.
To find out more about this course please download the Computer Science BSc specification (PDF) .
Clifford.
What's your job title?
Senior Lecturer.
Every subject area in computing would have elements in place where students can go on and get some hands-on experience because students tend to learn a bit better, you know, by seeing what's done in practice, hands -on, and then you can go back and read the theory.
I've seen the university evolve over the years, students are different now, they express themselves with different avenues, very vibrant culture, very active.
The Middlesex you have got great people, you've got a great time, great culture, a great place to open yourself, actually explore yourself.
You know, getting the best grades, getting a first class, being able to sort of communicate in every second stance you find yourself and be confident about what you've learned.
We've got partnerships with Cisco, we've got partnerships with Huawei, KPMG, and a few other big heaters out there in the city, and the great news about the placement is to get retained if they perform really well, so you might have a job waiting for you after graduation.
I would say the whole journey was fantastic, the university has been really supportive throughout my course and even after that.
I've just started a new job, so for me it would be to give my best there, and that's my goal now.
The moment I went into a classroom and started to do some teaching, I realised that was my calling.
Still enjoyed, still magical every time I walk into a classroom.
We have an incredible team of teaching staff, from experts in AI, data science, design and development, computer networks and much more.
Take a look at who will be teaching you:
Dr Kelly Androutsopoulos , Dr Francois Chadebecq , Michael Heeney, Carl Evans, Dr David Gamez , Ahmed Eissa, Dr Ali Khoshkholghi , Dr Bob Fields , Dr Halil Yetgin , Dr Luca Piras, Prof Chris Huyck , Ariadni Tsiakara Dr Serengul Smith , Dr Can Baskent
At Middlesex we take an innovative approach to teaching, through practical, problem-led sessions reflecting computer science in the real world.
You will have lectures, workshops and tutorials, and learn through practical experience in supervised laboratory work and your own guided research.
You will get one-to-one support from your personal tutor or module leader and take part in group seminars and workshops to discuss what you’ve learned.
We develop your critical thinking and problem-solving skills through
You will attend advice sessions and talks by invited speakers from industry (including alumni), employability workshops and internal speakers (e.g.
the Learning Enhancement Team, International Mobility, etc)
In your final year, you will be encouraged and helped to apply for work placements, and given help with your CV and interview technique.
The faculty runs sessions in conjunction with a number of employers on the opportunities available.
We also will share our library of online resources.
We guarantee a 3 day timetable teach week.
Some weeks are different due to how we schedule classes and arrange on-campus sessions, however we ensure that your timetable is spread over three weekdays to ensure you can optimise your time on campus.
During your first year, your weekly timetable will typically consist of a two -hour group activity with the whole cohort and three-hour lab sessions with smaller groups, per week for each module.
These are both held on campus face-to-face , and in addition t here will also be a weekly 1-hour online drop-in session per module when you can ask questions and get additional he lp and support.
Outside of teaching hours, you’ll learn independently through self-study which will involve reading articles and books, working on projects, undertaking research, and preparing for assessments, which include coursework, projects and presentations.
Our excellent teaching team will help you develop the skills relevant to your degree from research and practical skills to critical thinking.
View the Computer Science faculty and see who will be teaching your modules throughout your degree.
We have a range of academic support available, such as support for English language, workshops and trainings at the library to improve academic skills, and student learning assistants who offer peer support to help you excel at University.
We also offer free 24-hour laptop loans with full desktop software, free printing and Wi-Fi to use on or off campus, even over the weekend.
You will be assessed using a diverse range of methods including:
We will get feedback to you within 15 working days.
A year-long industrial placement puts what you’ve learned into practice in a real work setting, providing valuable experience and enhancing your career prospects after graduation.
You’ll develop your interpersonal and practical skills, confidence in your subject and build a valuable network of contacts.
We’ll help you make a great impression with tips and support, which will substantially increase your chances of securing a job with the company after graduation.
At Middlesex, we are proud of how we recognise and help to develop the potential of future students like you.
We make fair and aspirational offers because we want you to aim high, and we will support you all the way.
Together we can achieve great results.
We shall always be as flexible as possible and take into consideration any barriers you may have faced in your learning.
Things like your work experience, other achievements and your personal statement are all taken into account when we decide on admissions.
If you don't meet the entry requirements, why not consider our Computing and Engineering foundation year to help you prepare for the full degree?
Find out if we can count your relevant qualifications or work experience towards your entry requirements and check our prior accreditation of learning .
Please apply now via UCAS using the code G404.
This is a growing sector and there are so many job opportunities in computer science, with many roles available from software engineer to a systems analyst.
Our computer science degree equips you with the currency, relevance and skills required by a vast range of industry employers across the private, public and not-for-profit sectors.
Our students have excellent career prospects and go on to work at companies such as Arm, Amazon and Jaguar.
They take on a range graduate roles, such as:
You will benefit from employability lectures from former students, tech companies such as Amazon, Nomura and Continental, as well as start ups such as Post Quantum.
Join one of the best universities in London for computer science and start your successful career with Middlesex.
"I've really enjoyed studying here at Middlesex, I've learned a lot and am already getting job offers from employers, even though I haven't graduated yet."
Alvi Chowdhury, Computer Science student

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/law-llb:
Begin your legal career with our top-ranked LLB Law degree that combines expert law tuition, hands-on experience, and industry partnerships
Launch your legal career with our LLB law degree that blends academic excellence, hands-on experience, and industry connections.
By studying our law degree at Middlesex, you’ll gain the expertise and practical skills needed to excel in the legal profession or any career requiring a legal mind.
Join our dynamic, globally connected LLB law degree at Middlesex University.
Read on for information about tailoring your law degree to suit your aspirations.
You can access scholarships and funding opportunities to support your studies, and learn about where your LLB law degree can take you in your career.
Our graduates become solicitors, barristers, legal executives, and work in charity, the civil service, education and more.
This course covers essential areas of English law, including the legal system, public law, contract law, criminal law, tort, land law, and equity and trusts.
You can also tailor your studies with optional modules so you can build the career you want.
This module will enable you to develop an understanding of the English legal system and how it works in order to provide a foundation for the further study of law.
You will examine the nature and function of legal institutions and the role of the legal profession within the English legal system and explore the provision of legal services and methods of alternative dispute resolution.
You will become familiar with, and be able to use, legal skills and knowledge in respect of issues and problems involving the English legal system.
This module provides you with a sound knowledge and understanding of the law of contract, focusing on the main principles, cases and statutory provisions relevant to contract law.
This will act as a firm foundation for subsequent law modules as well as for postgraduate and professional study after the course.
The module will help in developing your competence in the analysis and solution of legal problems, develop your legal research skills and recognise the relationship between the law of contract and other areas of English and European law.
This is a core module and is a requirement of the professional bodies.
This module will broaden and expand your understanding of the common law system, legal reasoning, case analysis, the judicial hierarchy, handling precedents and statutory interpretation.
After studying this module, you will comprehend the basic principles and debates underpinning the position of the courts in the UK constitution, appreciate how to read a case, and be able to pick out its material facts and ratio, as well as distinguish this from obiter dicta and develop an understanding of the different rules and approaches that courts use to interpret statutes.
The module will provide you with a grounding in legal ethics so as to instil a basic understanding of a lawyer's duties toward their clients and the court.
This module will examine general principles relating to the UK Constitution and the organisation and powers of the State.
You will gain an awareness of the law and practice relating to the control of the Administration of the UK State and will consider the law relating to Human Rights and aspects of Civil Liberties in the UK.
This module will enable you to acquire a sound knowledge and understanding of criminal law, including a detailed knowledge of the key principles, cases and statutory provisions relevant to criminal law.
You will develop skills in the analysis and solution of legal problems and in researching case law and statute law in relation to criminal law, while recognising the relations between criminal law and other areas of law.
This module will enable you to acquire a sound knowledge and understanding of the various torts such as negligence claims, defamation, misuse of private information, trespass, nuisance and product liability.
This module provides an opportunity to become familiar with the dispute resolution role of the lawyer and to acquire the skills relevant to that role.
It will provide an opportunity for you to engage with key techniques, strategies, theories, values and cultural issues relating to the negotiation process, and will provide an understanding of the place of Alternative Dispute Resolution within the legal system.
You will also have the opportunity to critically evaluate aspects of the theoretical basis for mediation as a means of dispute resolution and the place of mediation with the legal system.
This module is limited to 16 students selected by the programme team.
This module will provide the knowledge and understanding of employment law and aims to deepens your appreciation of how legal principles encountered in other law modules can be applied to these areas.
A critical appreciation of employment law will be encouraged and you will be enabled to place the subject in the context of both your working and non-working lives.
Upon successful completion of this module, you will have an understanding of the role of law in regulating the employment relationship and stopping discrimination.
This module provides a thorough understanding of the legal system of the European Union (EU) and of the rules and principles governing the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital within the EU’s internal market.
You will apply knowledge of EU law to the analysis of legal issues and develop your skills of information retrieval from a range of sources.
Please note that you must select EU Law as an optional module if you want to study the Barristers Training Course after graduating because EU Law is currently a requirement of the academic component of Bar training to become a barrister.
A year-long non-credit bearing option module taken in addition to other modules when suitable work experience is found by you.
This module aims to develop your knowledge and understanding of key theoretical ideas and debates in criminology.
You will reflect on the impact of putting issues such as power and rights at the centre of criminological theory and practice, and what this means for crime, justice and punishment.
The module will cover developments and trends influencing criminological discussion, debates and research.
They will be assessed in relation to emerging social, political and cultural patterns.
You will develop knowledge and understanding of how criminological theory is constructed and will be required to apply theoretical knowledge to a range of contemporary issues and trends of prominent criminological interest and concern.
This module introduces you to the main theories, concepts and themes of International Relations.
The rival theories of the discipline are initially explored and then applied to the understanding of key topics concerning the relations between states and also non-state global actors.
This module explores human rights in an international, historical and comparative perspective.
You will be introduced to the rationale for this body of law and to major themes in international human rights jurisprudence.
Special attention will be paid to the European Convention of Human Rights and its impact in the United Kingdom, in particular issues arising from the incorporation of the European regime through the Human Rights Act.
This module will build upon your knowledge of legal principles by bringing these together with rules of trust law and principles of equity, including the ethical principles which govern the role of a trustee as fiduciary and principles relevant to the quantification of damages and availability of assets for their recovery.
You will develop your critical understanding of the law of trusts and equitable principles, and your ability to present and argue positions in relation to issues of equity and trust law.
You will analyse practical problems accurately and debate issues at a high level of understanding.
This module provides a critical understanding of the law in the context of dealings in land.
The module will build upon your knowledge of legal principles by bringing these together with rules of land law.
Your ability to evaluate issues, including ethical issues, and to solve land law problems at a high level of understanding is enhanced, together with your personal and professional development and employability skills.
This module aims to provide you with the knowledge and understanding of the principles of Child and Family Law in order to enable you to extend your ability to evaluate and analyse the development of both the legal and policy framework regulating child and adult relationships.
The module will explore the tensions arising from the use of state intervention in the sphere of the family with regard to issues of privacy, autonomy and welfare.
Having taken this module, you will have not only an appreciation of key areas of law and procedure affecting children and adults but also be sensitive to the complexities of the wider social issues raised.
This module aims to engage you in an active investigation of the practical rules and abstract principles underlying the operation of the Law of Evidence in criminal and civil trials.
The module will enable you to subject the law of criminal and civil evidence to critical examination and will thus contribute to the shaping of your own value system.
It builds on your knowledge of the substantive law by placing it in the context of trial practice.
A key purpose of the module is training in advanced level writing, argument, analysis and legal research.
Addressing the responses to climate change from legal and institutional lenses, this module will provide knowledge and critical understanding of the development of the current international legal and institutional regime to address climate change and the relevant global reforms required under the Paris Agreement.
You will appreciate, consider and evaluate the key concepts, and current debates and considerations, underpinning the legal principles and institutional mechanisms relating to climate law and governance and explore their practical applications in climate change litigation and dispute resolution.
This module will examine the international legal framework for international trade provided by the World Trade Organization (WTO) and its predecessor the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT).
The importance of the WTO/GATT has dramatically increased since the 1940s, shaping the global trade regimes and regulatory governance.
Placement learning will link academic work with the 'real world' situation in order to conceptualise the meaning of theory in the wider world context.
You'll be encouraged to reflect upon your areas of knowledge and how they apply to the placement learning experience as well as developing personal knowledge through a review of your learning.
The placement learning experience provides for two types of placement; standard placements and project-based placements.
The placement experience gives you the opportunity to enhance your skills of self-expression, communication, self-reliance and co-operation, and embeds your transferable and graduate skills required for future career paths and employment.
Subject to Programme Leader’s consent and subject to the placement taking place in an appropriate professional environment.
This module aims to examine the relationship between medical law and ethics and the role of the law in defining the doctor/patient relationship.
You will explore consent to treatment, consent issues relating to incompetent adults as well as minors and medical treatment.
Clinical negligence will be explored as well as selected issues relating to beginning of life such as abortion, surrogacy and end of life issues such as euthanasia and assisted suicide.
The module will also introduce mental health law and the law regulating medical research.
The module will give an opportunity for an in-depth study of a selected area of medical law.
This module gives you knowledge and understanding on the principles of public international law.
You will be able to evaluate and analyse legal issues in the international context, often dealing with topical concerns.
This might include debates over the legality of the use of armed force, the protection of the environment, or the extent of individual responsibility for war crimes.
This module aims to provide you with a sound knowledge and understanding of the law governing companies and other business organisations in the United Kingdom.
Comparisons are drawn between the laws underpinning the various business organisations/relationships and their different purposes are evaluated.
A framework of basic principles of company law is provided, with some detail of how these principles are worked out in practice.
The module will further aim to perfect legal reasoning and logic, legal synthesis, analysis and problem-solving skills; to enhance research skills and the use of primary source material and to enable you to bring this together with previously learned legal principles.
The full-time three-year mode will become four years if you go on a study year abroad or undertake this 120-credit placement in your third year and then return to Middlesex University for your fourth and final year.
To find out more information about this programme, please download the LLB Law course specification (PDF) .
Enhance your legal expertise through workshops, seminars, and independent study, with opportunities to research areas of law beyond the curriculum.
Learn from experts in a range of professional legal practices, and take trips to the European Court of Human Rights and the European Parliament in Strasbourg!
Our teaching methods are designed to be interactive, inclusive, and engaging, combining workshops, small groups, independent study and one-to-one support.
You'll have the change to go on both local and international visits throughout your law degree.
This will help support your studies, help you develop your special interests, and give you inspiration for where your future career can take you.
You'll be able to visit prestigious law firms, Inns of Court, Royal Courts of Justice, and attend the UK Association for European Law’s annual EU law lecture.
You can even go on a trip to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, where you can speak with judges.
In 2024, one of our law students said
"Visiting the European Court of Human Rights and the European Parliament in Strasbourg was an amazing experience!
Learning about their roles in protecting human rights and making decisions for Europe was eye-opening.
Meeting professionals in the field was inspiring and I feel more informed about European governance.
This trip has definitely broadened my perspective and I'm grateful for the opportunity.
Overall this trip was excellent, more than I expected.
It was a wonderful experience to meet new people and explore a new culture."
Here is what the breakdown is for each year:
Percentage
Hours
Typical activity
22%
300
Teaching, learning and assessment
78%
942
Independent learning
26%
74%
20%
80%
At Middlesex University’s School of Law, we are proud to celebrate the academic excellence, commitment, and professional promise of our students.
Each year, a number of prestigious prizes are awarded in recognition of outstanding achievement across our undergraduate law programmes.
School of Law Undergraduate Prize
Awarded to the student with the best overall performance on the LLB.
Thomson Reuters Law Prize
Awarded to the student with the best performance on the second year of the LLB.
Awarded to the student with the best performance on the first year of the LLB.
School of Law LLM Prize
Awarded to the student with the best performance on the LLM programme.
School of Law Prize of Outstanding Contribution to Clinical Legal Education
John Weldon Equity and Trusts Law Prize
Awarded to the LLB graduate who was the best student in Equity and Trusts.
Incorporated Council of Law Reporting Prize
Awarded to the best student in Evidence.
Oxford University Press Law Prize
KJ Smith Solicitors Family Law Prize
Awarded to the best student in Child and Family Law.
Stowe Family Law Prize
Brenda Barrett Tort Law Prize
Awarded to the LLB graduate who was the best student in Tort Law.
Elvira Rubin Contract Law Prize
Awarded to the LLB graduate who was the best student in Contract Law.
Stephen Homewood Public Law Prize
Awarded to the LLB graduate who was the best student in Public Law.
Please note: Prize details and eligibility criteria are subject to change each academic year.
The course will provide you with opportunities to test your knowledge and understanding informally through ‘formative’ assessment.
This will be completed before your formal ‘summative’ assessment which will count towards your final marks.
Each module normally contains at least one piece of formative assessment from which you will receive feedback from your tutor.
Formative assessments are developmental and any grade you receive from formative assessment does not count towards your final marks.
There is formal ‘summative’ assessment as part of the module, usually towards the end of the module.
The grades from the summative assessments count towards your module mark.
Summative assessments comprise authentic assessments mimicking what you could expect in a range of real life scenarios, and include, amongst others, coursework, presentations, moots (mock trials) and a few multiple choice tests.
Each module will have no more than two summative assessments.
Assessments are reviewed annually and may be updated based on student feedback, to suit content or based on feedback from an external examiner.
There are three options for you to gain hands-on industry experience throughout your course.
Enhance your legal education with our exclusive guaranteed internship programme for a select number of second and third-year Law students.
Gain invaluable work experience in prestigious law firms, local authorities, government and legal departments, developing the necessary practical skills for your future career.
You can apply at any age, even without formal qualifications, provided you can demonstrate relevant experience and ability.
You can apply now via UCAS using the code M100 .
Check out our undergraduate application page .
Associate Professor in Law
Lecturer in Law
Professor in IEEL & HoD in LSS
Director of Programmes in Law & Politics
Professor of International Law
There are many sectors where a law degree is highly desired, including business (human resources, tax and insurance), charity, management, administration, the civil service, education and government.
You might choose to pursue a career as a solicitor, barrister, legal executive, paralegal, or in a community advisory role.
Our Law LLB graduates pursue studies for professional qualifications such as the Solicitors Qualifying Exam or the Bar Practice Course/Barrister Training Course.
This degree complies with requirements for the academic component of Bar training comprising the seven Foundations of Legal Knowledge.
Note that students must select EU Law as an optional module if they want to pursue this.
Our expert law tuition on our LLB provides a very good basis for the Solicitors Qualifying Exam (SQE), which was introduced in September 2021.
After graduating, you may also choose to study for a master's degree before pursuing professional exams.
"I was motivated to study the LLB as, not only is it a prestigious course, I felt it was the best option for me to achieve my goal of becoming a lawyer.
I was also confident the course would allow me to work in a large number of organisations either as a legal practitioner, legal advisor or legal representative after I graduate.
Every aspect of the course has been really exciting, as you can apply what you learn in modules to everyday legal issues.
Most importantly, the course has improved my ability to think logically and it has taught me about the importance of precision in my work, which is essential if I'm going to work in the field of Law."
David Eniolorunfe Oshame

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/psychology-bsc-honours:
Delve into the science behind human behaviour with our expert-led Psychology BSc.
Explore the foundations of psychology, learn in state-of-the-art facilities, and prepare for your diverse career in health, education, forensics, coaching, and more.
We offer varied and impactful placements with the prison service, youth offending teams, homeless services and more
Our graduate work as counsellors, social workers, teachers and academics or pursue areas such as law, business management or education
The course provides a strong foundation in psychology theory and practice, meeting BPS accreditation and preparing you for a wide range of careers.
You'll receive a broad introduction to psychology.
This module:
This module introduces the diversity and breadth of approaches in the discipline of psychology and the many ways psychologists study the human mind, brain and behaviour.
Research informed topical introductions will be provided in selected areas of individual differences, cognitive and biological psychology.
As well as a theoretical introduction and overview to these characteristic approaches adopted within these areas of psychology, you are encouraged to adopt a reflective and critical perspective on the subject matter covered.
These topics will also be considered in the context of future employability and career trajectories for students.
Throughout the module you will be encouraged to consider both commonalities and diversities in human thoughts, feelings and behaviours facilitating an inclusive approach to learning.
This module introduces the diversity and breadth of approaches in the discipline of psychology and the many ways psychologists study the human mind, mental health, development and societal influences.
Research informed topical introductions will be provided in selected areas of mental health, developmental and social psychology.
As well as a theoretical introduction and overview to these areas of psychology, students are encouraged to adopt a reflective and critical perspective on the subject matter covered.
This module challenges some westernised approaches to psychology and introduces you to diverse ideas and theories that question traditional psychological approaches.
You will be encouraged to consider both commonalities and diversities in human thoughts, feelings and behaviours facilitating an inclusive approach to learning.
The module introduces you to the principles and practice of qualitative and quantitative psychological research, with a focus on research questions and design, and data collection, preparation and analysis.
Additionally, the module emphasises the importance of co-leadership, fostering collaborative skills essential in modern research environments.
You will be given hands-on experience with qualitative and quantitative data handling and analysis procedures, developing digital literacy to effectively utilise relevant software tools so that you are equipped with the necessary skills for a technologically driven research and employment environment.
You will also be provided with opportunities to develop skills in the dissemination of and critical interpretation of research outputs.
You'll study several core subjects in depth including biological, developmental, cognitive and social psychology.
You'll also explore individual differences, research methods and ethics.
This British Psychological Society (BPS) core module gives you an overview of biological and cognitive psychology.
Research informed teaching will focus on topics covering the brain, body and mind, including the anatomy and physiology of the nervous system and how this relates to cognition.
The module is focused on aspects of behaviour that have a clear biological component with an emphasis on individual differences in biology.
Through a series of specialised psychophysiology lab sessions, you will investigate central and peripheral nervous system activity and their relation to behaviour.
The lab sessions provide a practical and hands on learning experience.
You will get an introduction to personality psychology and how this relates to biopsychology and cognitive science.
This module provides you with a psychological account of what makes humans function well in their world.
We take aspects from cognitive, social, evolutionary, counselling and biological psychology and build them into a collection of subjects that improve a person’s functioning in the real world.
These concepts will be explained, defined and critically debated in terms of their relevance to current theory and application.
The module will also deliver a critical reflection of recent research in these areas.
We will also review alternative aspects of applied psychology.
You will be encouraged to, present, evaluate and disseminate this information through the application of practical policy design and psychological reasoning.
This British Psychological Society (BPS) core module develops the depth and breadth of your understanding of primary and contemporary theory and research in social psychology and developmental psychology.
We introduce the subject matter through topic-focused group presentations, research workshops and laboratory investigations.
A focus on developmental psychology will see you study the biological, social, emotional, and cognitive changes that occur from birth, through infancy, childhood, adolescence, and into adulthood.
In social psychology, interpersonal and intergroup processes will be studied with the objective of developing your understanding of human sociality in everyday life.
You will adopt a reflective and critical perspective on the subject matter.
The module enables you to understand and evaluate psychological research and to understand how research design relates to research questions.
It provides you with skills in a variety of statistical analyses and enables them to conduct ethical psychological research utilising quantitative methods.
It will further develop your competency with statistical software including data handling skills so that they are equipped to produce data-based reports in research and workplace contexts.
This module introduces the diversity and breadth of approaches to qualitative research in the discipline of psychology.
The module will empower you to understand and evaluate psychological research and to understand how research design relates to research questions.
It provides you with skills in a variety of qualitative methods and enables you to conduct ethical psychological research utilising qualitative methods.
It provides the foundation for interpretation and critical discussion of published psychological research.
These topics will also be considered in the context of future employability and career trajectories for you.
You will be encouraged to consider both commonalities and diversities in human thoughts, feelings and behaviours, facilitating an inclusive approach to learning.
This module develops your employability skills (for example communication, teamwork, critical thinking, and independent learning) through undertaking a work placement.
This practical experience module builds on the knowledge and skills gained from the successful completion of previous psychology modules and tests out theoretical knowledge and practical skills in a real-world situation.
It gives an appreciation of the organisation and reality of work and the development of your ability and personal growth in a chosen occupation.
You'll choose advanced study options while also undertaking an independent research project, supported by an academic.
Options include neuropsychology, primatology, psychology of music, therapeutic psychology, lifespan psychology and many more.
This module introduces you to health psychology and the work of health psychologists in practice, including how this applies to your own health and the health of society.
It helps you apply knowledge and skills to real-world health problems.
You will be encouraged to adopt a reflective and critical perspective on research, theory and their experiences, including commonalities and diversities in experiences, facilitating empathy and an inclusive approach to learning.
Research informed topical introductions will be provided in areas of psychological, behavioural and social determinants of health and illness.
The module will focus on health behaviour change interventions and chronic illness and its management, emphasising the application of the work of health psychologists.
This practice focus will help you to consider your future employability and career trajectories.
This module engages you in a substantial research project on a topic of your choice within the field of psychology, supported by group activities that facilitate the development of research skills, collaboration, and practical application of psychological theories and methods.
Through this blend of individual and group work, you will enhance your understanding of psychological research methods, data analysis, and the ethical considerations inherent in psychological research.
This module offers advanced level study of topics in coaching psychology.
It offers you a blend of academic study, practical experience, and personal development.
It facilitates your development of critical thinking, independent learning, reflective learning and specialised listening and communication skills.
It introduces basic skills of coaching-based empirical psychological research.
The module encourages you to explore further training in coaching and coaching psychology as part of your professional and career development.
Cognitive neuroscience is the study of brain states and how such brain states are related to behaviour and cognition.
Many of the recent advances in the field are due to the rapid development and use of technology that allows us to infer what the brain is doing during different psychological states.
This module introduces you to the theory that underpins cognitive neuroscience techniques such as EEG, TMS, fMRI, TES.
It provides a hands-on approach to learning how to use them and how these techniques are adopted to better understand brain in times of disease and damage.
You will have the chance to learn how to use advanced equipment by practising with it.
Learning these practical skills to engage critical thinking skill will equip you with skills and knowledge needed in a variety of contemporary workplaces and further study.
This module explores the application of psychology to social problems in the areas of crime, conflict and violence, considering individual, group and social factors.
It covers how individuals and groups become involved in these problematic behaviours, and also considers the consequences for victims, government and justice responses, and approaches to prevention.
The module introduces you to a range of applied approaches and develops your capacity to respond proactively to real world problems.
Forensic psychology will also be considered in the context of your future employability and career trajectories.
You will learn to consider commonalities and diversities in human thoughts, feelings and behaviours facilitating an inclusive approach to learning.
This module introduces you to core aspects of evolutionary theory and demonstrates the application of evolutionary theory to behaviour.
It covers how behaviour can be regarded as the product of biological evolution.
It also discusses how evolutionary approaches complement other frameworks and add another level of explanation to scientific understanding.
You will cover various different evolutionary approaches including ethology, behavioural ecology and evolutionary psychology, discussing key findings and methodological differences.
This module introduces you to the ways in which psychological theories and methods contribute to our understanding of elite sport performance.
It will help you understand the psychological, behavioural and social determinants of elite sport performance.
You will gain insight into how the applications of sport psychology, from a practitioners’ perspective, may lead to working with skilled performers, and the development of time-management, communication and problem-solving skills.
The module covers the importance of collaboration, teamwork, adaptation and flexibility will be emphasised.
This module introduces you to the diversity and breadth of approaches in the discipline of neuropsychology and the many ways that neuropsychologists study the healthy brain and the disordered brain.
We base our sessions around research-informed teaching with a particular focus on published neuropsychological case studies.
You will explore the causes and symptoms of major neuropsychological disorders of cognition and behaviour – for example, language, vision, memory, emotion, personality, olfaction and development.
You will be encouraged to develop critical thinking and discussion skills to enable them to contribute meaningfully in class.
You will learn to source and reference published articles from reputable sources online, enhancing their digital literacy, and you will gain key practice-led learning skills in the interpretation and writing of neuropsychological reports.
This module introduces the diversity and breadth of approaches in the discipline of occupational/workplace psychology.
The module will introduce theories with a focus on the role of stress in the workplace.
You will also gain an understanding of work-life balance and the real-world applications of promoting good work-life balance and engage with some of the critical debates around the area.
The topics in these sessions will highlight the diversity of individuals in the workplace and how this can impact your experiences of work-life balance, stress and motivation.
Since this module focuses on employment-based topics, the content will be relevant to you beyond your degree and can be carried into your chosen areas of employment particularly those who are planning to go into Human Resources, Occupational Psychology or wish to pursue a postgraduate course in this area.
This module will provide a comprehensive survey of the living primates with a focus of research in the wild (ethology) and in the psychology lab (comparative psychology).
In recent years, experimental and observational research in primate behaviour and cognition has exploded, and this primatology module will provide you with up-to-date knowledge of the major areas of study.
The primatology module provides a rich learning opportunity for you and help you understand the foundations of human nature that we share with our primate cousins.
You will be encouraged to consider both commonalities and diversities between humans and other primates.
This module will develop your skills by •    Exploring the intersection of therapeutic psychology and social, cultural, and community mental health •    Advancing your understanding of key psychological therapeutic theories and practices within diverse contexts •    Developing critical and reflective thinking regarding psychotherapeutic work with mental health issues, considering the role of culture, diversity, and external circumstances •    Enhancing your ability to apply psychological theory to case formulation, intervention, and clinical practice in community settings •    Fostering critical evaluation of evidence bases and practices in mental health care within varied social and environmental contexts.
This module provides you with an advanced level of understanding of how psychological theories and research inform and impact learning and teaching in educational settings with children and young people, and the interplay with surrounding contexts such as the family and wider society.
The aim is to direct you to develop an appreciation of research, knowledge and applications in the domain.
You will study cognitive, social, developmental, and biological theoretical perspectives, providing an integrated understanding of how psychological theory and research intersects with education in a wide range of settings, and its real-world applications.
Psychology in Education provides a rich learning opportunity for students wanting to pursue educational psychology training at postgraduate level, and for those planning a career in teaching including special educational needs (SEN) roles.
This module provides an opportunity to plan career and/or study goals for life after graduation and reflect on, and improve, employment skills.
You will get a deeper understanding of the relationship between psychological concepts and work-based practice.
This module prepares you to apply for postgraduate study and/or graduate employment after graduation.
This module introduces the diversity and breadth of approaches to visual research in the discipline of psychology.
It covers a range of contemporary visual research methods and develops your capacity in the application of different methods of collecting, analysing, and disseminating visual data in psychological research, with a focus on developing visual responses to the sustainable development goals.
Visual psychology will also be considered in the context of your future employability.
To find out more about this course, please download the BSc Psychology course specification (PDF) .
Our teaching methods are designed to be interactive, inclusive, and engaging, combining whole-cohort sessions, small group workshops, and hands-on lab work.
These diverse methods provide an inclusive environment that supports all learning styles, fostering curiosity and empathy.
23%
280
77%
920
17%
198
76%
922
7%
80
Practice-based learning
We guarantee a 3 day timetable.
We have a diverse range of assessment options for you to showcase your knowledge.
This inclusive approach encompasses continual formative feedback.
The assessment methods include authentic assessments such as case-study reports, written reports, essays, short answer texts, article reviews, portfolios, presentations, and research dissertations.
This diverse and inclusive approach aims to provide you with opportunities to demonstrate your knowledge and understanding in alignment with your individual strengths, preferences, and learning styles, fostering a more equitable and enriching educational experience for all.
You'll have the option to undertake an expenses-based work placement during your studies as a year-long assignment after your second year.
We have partnerships with a wide range of influential and established organisations including:
During your placement, you'll engage in clinical and educational research, such as on eating disorders, obsessive-compulsive disorders, autism and stuttering, and investigating the psychological factors in relation to sexual assault.
Depending on the organisation you are on placement with, you may be entitled to apply for a maintenance grant.
The year-long work placement exempts you from paying tuition fees for the full academic year, ensuring you gain the necessary practical skills to embark on your chosen career.
Find out more about psychology work placements .
Our Psychology Department has specialist equipment and facilities for you to use to enhance your learning.
Our academics cover a broad range of expertise in neuropsychology, clinical psychology, psychophysiology and related disciplines, and our specialist equipment includes:
We have extensive laboratory facilities, including computer labs, a psychophysiology lab, a social observation lab, a virtual reality lab, an auditory cognition lab and 12 testing cubicles.
This hands-on experience will help you get the most out of your psychology degree!
Applications from mature candidates without formal qualifications are welcomed, provided they can demonstrate appropriate levels of relevant ability and experience.
If you don't meet the entry requirements, why not consider our psychology foundation year to help you prepare for the full degree?
Find out how you can transfer.
Please apply via UCAS using this course’s UCAS code C800 .
Psychology BSc graduates enjoy excellent career prospects and competitive salaries, with a multifaceted skillset that opens doors across numerous industries.
You'll gain a deep understanding of human behaviour, cognition, and emotion, alongside critical thinking, research, and analytical skills, preparing you for diverse careers in areas such as:
Graduates have secured roles with organisations like the Royal Free Hospital, North East London Health Trust, Homerton Hospital, and Cygnet Healthcare.
"The entire course has been challenging and very interesting.
My lecturers were always engaged in what they were teaching and I had an opportunity to get knowledge in so many aspects of psychology.
I will leave Middlesex with a huge amount of new experiences and knowledge about myself and what I am capable of doing.
I have already joined my partner as co-founder of our company Invoiceberry Limited, which is an online invoicing software facility for small businesses and freelancers.
My research for my dissertation will help me in this venture as I now understand more about entrepreneurship and the psychology behind entrepreneurial behaviour.
Evelina Saulyte
Psychology BSc student
The fees below are for the 2024/25 academic year:
Part-time students: £138 taught credit
Find out more about Undergraduate Finance and all of our Scholarships and Bursaries .

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/economics-bsc-honours:
This course offers a practical, business-oriented economics education, equipping you with the skills and experience to pursue careers in government, finance, business, and beyond.
With 145 years of experience in delivering career-focused education, we're here to help you succeed.
Our graduates work at prestigious organisations, including GSA Capital, Handelsbanken, JP Morgan and KPMG
Access financial and data-analytic software commonly used in the workplace in our excellent Financial Markets Lab
This course equips you with a strong theoretical and practical training in economics.
Choose the 3-year programme, 3-year programme with work experience, or 4 year programme with year-long work placement
The first year covers a range of modules aimed at providing you with a comprehensive understanding of fundamental economic principles, their applications, statistical analysis, and quantitative techniques.
This module introduces theoretical concepts of economic decision making.
The module presents the principal elements of microeconomics as a basis for understanding the operations of markets, efficient resource allocation, an awareness of market failures and the microeconomic effects of economic policy, the trade-off between private and social incentives, with special attention given to theories around decision making under risk or incomplete information.
Basic concepts of behavioural economics are also discussed.
This module develops your understanding of key concepts in economics, mathematics, statistics through practical application.
It introduces the application of microeconomic and macroeconomic theories to analyse real-world economic issues.
The module will enhance analytical thinking, reasoning skills, and the capability to abstract and solve problems, fostering an understanding of commonly used mathematical and statistical techniques for interpreting data.
This module presents an overview of key financial markets and institutions along with the key concepts of monetary policy to prepare you for more advanced and specialist studies in the second and third years.
The module introduces you to monetary policy, basic macroeconomic indicators, different financial institutions and how they interact in the market.
It adopts both a quantitative and qualitative approach to explaining the functioning and importance of financial markets and institutions, and monetary policy supported by real world examples.
This module provides a thorough grounding of the statistical methods and computer software for the analysis and presentation of accounting and economic data.
It caters for students with some prior mathematical knowledge, and while you are expected to complete mathematical calculations by hand and using a computer the emphasis is on the interpretation and communication of quantitative results.
This module enables you to undertake and reflect on approved work experiences and a range of personal and professional development activities, fo r a minimum of eighteen weeks full time employment.
The second year builds upon the foundational knowledge gained in the first year and delves deeper into the field of economics with specialised modules in micro- and macroeconomics.
It also covers more advanced statistical (econometrics) and quantitative skills.
This module provides you with a set of tools to analyse time-series economic data and use them to produce forecasts.
You will be able to recognise issues arising when analysing time-series data, specify and estimate suitable econometric models to produce reliable forecasts.
On t his module you will the models and techniques of macroeconomics at an intermediate level and develop an appreciation of current controversies with respect to the formulation, implementation and impact of macroeconomic policies.
This module develop s your knowledge of microeconomics theories that can be used to explain consumer and firm behaviour.
The aims of this module are to provide analytical tools for students to evaluate theories of consumer and investor behaviour and to analyse and compare firms’ production and pricing policies under different firm objectives .
This module develops your skills in applying the principles and methods of social survey research, and the econometric analysis of social survey responses.
It will introduce you to survey methods and basic econometric techniques and the skills to carry out qualitative and quantitative analysis.
It will expose you to survey methods and design using software such as SurveyMonkey or Qualtrics.
It will also teach you the basic econometric toolkit necessary to analyse the result of their surveys such as regression analysis and non-parametric tests using software such as Excel and Stata.
In the third year, you'll delve into more specialised and advanced areas of the field, especially in macroeconomics and econometrics.
In combination with our range of optional modules, the third-year modules will provide you with advanced knowledge and analytical skills in specific areas of economics, enabling you to specialise in your areas of interest.
This module will advanc e your understanding of macroeconomic analysis, focusing on rigorous and technical analysis of macroeconomic concepts.
It includes two main components: business cycle formation and monetary economics with Dynamic Stochastic General Equilibrium models.
The module studies macro-level policymaking, providing a comprehensive exploration of advanced macroeconomic theories and its real-world applications.
This module provides you with a set of tools to understand and analyse economic data for policy evaluation.
The module will expose you to econometric strategies frequently used in applied microeconomics and behavioural research.
You will be able to recognise data problems and how they may affect causal interpretations, specify and estimate econometrics models for policy evaluation, and be able to undertake empirical research individually and independently.
This module provides a comprehensive exposure to the insights and methods of game theory, behavioural and experimental economics.
The first part is designed to introduce the main solution concepts of game theory and aims at providing a formal framework for the analysis of how individuals and firms behave in context of strategic interaction.
The second part of the module is intended to assess the predicted power of different (micro)economic theories when it comes to actual human behaviour and real experimental data.
This module will present the main developments in automated trading and FinTech in the past two decades.
A practical understanding of automated trading will be developed by using extensive worked examples of Python and R codes, which are the main languages used in automated finance.
The module will provide you with a working knowledge of financial technology applications such as blockchain, crypto assets , crowdfunding and P2P finance.
This module gives an overview of the state-of-the-art literature in key fields of economics.
It adopts both a quantitative and qualitative approach to explaining the current research in these fields and their policy implications supported by real world examples.
It will provide you with analytical skills and research knowledge to prepare you for more advanced and specialist studies in graduate schools and jobs in the industries.
To find our more about this course, please download the Economics BSc programme specification (PDF).
As an Economics student at Middlesex University you'll be trained to use a range of industry-standard software, all provided for you on campus
You will gain knowledge and understanding through guided reading of textbooks, academic journals, computer software, in-class exercises, labs, workshops and seminars.
You’ll develop cognitive skills through reading the required texts and articles; listening, discussing and presenting a series of topics and theories; identifying suitable research articles to support your learning; organising and analysing datasets with appropriate software in labs; applying theory to specific problems and producing a significant piece of work based on your analysis.
Your knowledge and understanding will be assessed by presentations , business case studies and practical, authentic written assignments.
Your cognitive skills will be assessed by practice based individual and group coursework assignments, oral presentations and in class tests.
A 12-month placement is offered at the end of year two .
Alternatively, you can opt for two smaller placements over the years one and two of the course including the summers between their years of study.
A dedicated e mployability a dvisor will help in the search for an employer who can provide you with an appropriate placement .
They will also provide you with guidance and support in preparation for, as well as during and after the placement .
You are supported throughout the p lacement with a series of award-winning talks, workshops and engagement with professional bodies and employers.
We'll accept T Levels for entry onto our undergraduate degree courses (including our extended courses with a foundation year) with standard application of science requirements and of Maths and English GCSEs in line with UCAS tariff calculation.
If you have a qualification such as a foundation degree or HND or have gained credit at another university, you may be able to enter a Middlesex University course in year two or three.
You can apply now via UCAS using the code L101.
Visit the UCAS site today .
A degree in Economics opens doors to a wide range of highly sought-after career opportunities across both the private and public sectors.
With strong analytical and quantitative skills, you’ll be in demand by leading firms, international agencies, policy institutes, and financial services.
Graduates of this course pursue careers such as:
For those looking to advance even further, the course also provides a solid foundation for postgraduate education, allowing you to specialise in areas like finance, development, or international economics.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/nursing-mental-health-bsc-honours:
Course closed in Clearing
This course is now closed for Clearing for a September 2025 start.
Play an important role in a patient's recovery and positively impact their lives.
Study alongside experienced staff using state-of-the art facilities and gain clinical experience in leading hospitals
We will give you exceptional support as you study for this challenging and fulfilling role.
We have exceptional teaching staff, state-of-the-art facilities and placements at London's leading hospitals.
This highly respected mental health nursing degree is based at our Hendon Campus and includes teaching at the brand new £23 million West Stand facility at StoneX stadium, which features one of the UK's best skills training centres including high-tech simulation suites.
Our placements with our London NHS partners, including Camden & Islington and Barnet, Enfield & Haringey NHS Trusts, will give you opportunities to practise your skills in some of London's most forward-thinking hospitals.
Once you complete the course, you will have developed the skills needed to be a professional mental health nurse and you'll become a qualified professional with registration to work across a variety of settings.
There's a shortage of mental health nurses in the UK which means you'll have a high chance of securing work immediately after graduation.
After graduating, you can register as a mental health nurse with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) and start your career helping to make the world a better place.
You will develop a comprehensive approach to assessing, treating, care planning, and supporting individuals in their recovery and pursuit of their best lives.
Through high-fidelity simulations, you will gain experience in areas such as resuscitation and handling critically ill patients.
By participating in placements and hands-on experiences, you will acquire the necessary observation and communication skills to confidently collaborate with service users, families, carers, and colleagues.
You will be supported to increase your confidence and communication skills, learn valuable critical thinking skills and become an effective problem solver.
You will become proficient working with information technology and in the academic and practice setting and you will be part of teams that will build your expertise in understanding leadership and management.
We have 145 years of experience delivering professional, creative and technical education that prepares students – like you – for success in global careers.
Our highly experienced tutors will build on your empathy for others and help you develop nursing skills and confidence in applying them.
The unique skillset you’ll develop will open up opportunities within mental health nursing, teaching, research, educational outreach, public health, the voluntary sector and the armed forces.
This course will reinforce your classroom learning with practical experience:
You’ll have the chance to contribute to projects at our research centres, including our Drug and Alcohol Research Centre (DARC), and Research Centre for Transcultural Studies.
Placements include leading NHS Mental Health organisations such as Barnet, Enfield & Haringey and Camden & Islington Trusts and many more
were positive about the teaching on their course (NSS, 2025)
You'll be based at our West Stand facility at StoneX Stadium featuring some of the most advanced health equipment in the UK
Our course values the practical application of skills in real-life settings as a vital part of nursing training.
Therefore, 50% of your study time is spent on placement.
You will develop a detailed understanding of severe and enduring mental health conditions, which include dual diagnosis, psychoses, child and adolescent mental health and dementia.
In year one, you'll cover the main scientific and biological underpinnings of mental health nursing such as anatomy and physiology and core communication skills.
You'll also have your first placement experience, for which you'll be fully supported and prepared.
You'll be introduced to the fundamentals of mental health and wellbeing and consolidate your development through the Expansive Learning module which is designed to put your professional learning in a personal and social context.
This module equips you to develop your self-awareness through reflective activities.
You will develop a broad understanding of the complexity of health and social care issues and the development of appropriate professional attitude, skills and knowledge.
Additionally the module offers you the opportunity to develop a range of applied skills through active enquiry, synthesis and reflection.
This module starts developing the role and function of the graduate mental health nurse in health and illness.
It will provide the fundamental nursing knowledge required to undertake basic nursing assessment, support and enable people across different life spans in managing and improving physical and mental health, and preventing ill health.
Theories, evidence and models to support the art and science of nursing will be introduced to develop knowledge and understanding about the nature of nursing, the person, health, society and the environment.
This module will introduce and expand on the scientific principles underpinning nursing practice.
This comprehensive module introduces principles which draw on scientific areas of biopsychosocial and behavioural sciences as related to all areas of nursing with a focus on mental health nursing.
You will be able to demonstrate knowledge and skills in meeting the fundamental care needs of people across their lifespan, with a range of physical, mental, cognitive and behavioural health challenges.
You will demonstrate high standards of professional conduct in line with the NMC code in all aspects of your practice and be able to carry out a range of procedures, under supervision, that are expected of you at this level, in a variety of health and social care settings.
In year two, you'll begin to develop your skills in mental health assessment and treatment.
You'll have the opportunity to put into practice the interventions – such as psychosocial and medication management skills – you'll be learning.
This module develops your professional and leadership knowledge, and self-awareness through critical reflective activities and evaluation of your own learning.
It builds your theorical knowledge to enhance clinical and professional judgements and independence.
The module provides in-depth knowledge of your subject area of choice, with reference and application to the wider complexities of health and social care.
This module develops the knowledge and skills required of the graduate mental health nurse to assess, plan and evaluate care across the lifespan during illness that is person centred and evidence-based.
It will focus on interventions to address physical, cognitive, mental, spiritual, behavioural and social health needs during illness.
This module will build upon the scientific module of year one to further develop principles and deepen the knowledge and application to all fields of nursing.
You will demonstrate the relevant knowledge and skills to meet more complex care needs of people across the lifespan with a range of mental, physical, cognitive and behavioural health challenges, across a range of health and social care settings in line with the new standards of proficiency.
You will be expected to demonstrate increasing independence in their own field of mental health practice whilst maintaining high standards of professional conduct in line with the NMC Code, showing awareness of the implications of the Code for self and others.
In your final year, we'll support your preparation for employment by ensuring you are equipped with leadership and management skills.
You'll consolidate the expertise you have built over the last three years and will be prepared for job applications and interviews.
This module builds upon and consolidates your knowledge and skills to manage and lead as an accountable, responsible, emotionally intelligent nurse.
This module enables you to critically engage with the coordination and management of care delivery for those individuals who are severely ill with life-threatening or limiting illness, or have complex physical/mental health needs requiring long-term care in a range of healthcare settings, working in partnership with the individual, your families where relevant and the multi-disciplinary team to evaluate whether the care is effective and meets desired outcomes.
It will focus on encouraging you to build on prior learning in relation to critically applying nursing knowledge, evidence/research and the nursing process in the planning and co-ordination of care for the individual with complex needs.
This module builds upon the scientific module of year two to consolidate scientific principles and deepen the knowledge and application.
It also extends knowledge and application of pharmacological principles especially as to underpin nursing care within own field of practice and future potential prescribing practice.
You will be able to demonstrate the ability to work autonomously in the mental health field of practice caring for all people across the lifespan with a range of physical, mental, cognitive and behavioural challenges.
You will display advanced clinical skills and have the ability to integrate leadership in all aspects of care management.
You will utilise a critical and reflective approach in delivering high standards of professional conduct in line with the NMC Code as part of a multi-disciplinary team.
To find out more about this programme, please download the BSc Nursing (Mental Health) course specification (PDF).
Throughout the course, we emphasise the importance of developing practical skills and the course is split equally between theory and practice.
You'll learn your subject by attending interactive sessions, seminars, practical workshops, laboratory sessions and tutorials, and you'll work on problem-solving exercises, case studies and written assignments.
Group sessions allow you to gain and develop knowledge in specific subjects.
Practice-based learning amounts to 50% of the entire course and students must complete a set amount of hours to meet the professional body’s clinical criteria for professional registration.
By the end of the course, you will have completed 2,300 hours of clinical training.
You will gain knowledge through:
Our formal teaching methods include: lectures, participatory seminars, small group discussions, self-guided and directed learning, e-learning, support from the academic advisor, skills laboratory and practical clinical sessions, use of virtual and augmented reality resources and clinical placements.
This contains a number of activities which facilitate your understanding and development of nursing skills and serves as a tool for use in practice learning.
This will help you apply your skills to real life situations and demonstrate drawing on theoretical and practical skills and research to engage critically with decision making and providing high quality patient care.
Practice-based learning amounts to 50% of the entire course and you must complete a set amount of hours to meet the professional body’s clinical criteria for professional registration.
Throughout the course, we emphasise the development of practical skills, and the course is split equally between theory and practice.
By the end of the course, you'll have completed 2,300 hours of clinical training and 2,300 hours of theory.
Here is an indication of how you will split your time each year:
30%
50%
Assessment is through exams (including OSCEs), practical assessments and coursework.
Coursework will include a dissertation, your portfolio, reports, care plans, drug calculations, individual and group presentations, online assessments and learning logbooks.
You will be supervised during your learning period in practice by NMC registered nurses, midwives, nursing associates and / or other registered health and social care professionals.
First year mental health student nurses may have a learning disability placement assessed by non-nursing staff.
Formal exams and essay writing are not always the best way to assess knowledge so we prefer to minimise this as much as possible for a more blended approach that emphasises group work and assessment.
This reflects the team nature of how nurses work in teams when in practice.
The high-tech nursing and midwifery simulation suites allow you to link the theories of the classroom with the practice of treating patients in a hospital environment.
And if you want to find out whether Middlesex is the right place for you before you apply, get in touch with our Disability and Neurodiversity team .
Nursing today is more flexible and varied than ever.
Mental health nurses have the opportunity to work across a broad range of fields and the skills that make you a good mental health nurse are transferable to many other areas.
Nurses work in services for children and adolescents right up to the ground-breaking work that is going on in dementia care.
Mental health nurses are needed in secure facilities like prisons and special hospitals, in specialist mental health wards, across a host of community settings and in health settings like GP surgeries and emergency departments in general hospitals.
There are specialist roles for mental health nurses which range from nurse prescribers to managers and consultants.
Mental health nurses are involved in teaching, research, educational outreach, and public health, and work with a range of employers from the voluntary sector to the Armed Forces.
You can also travel and work abroad as a mental health nurse and some nurses work in social care and set up their own businesses.
Nursing is a 24hr profession – many nurses have flexible hours and shift patterns may include early, late, night, weekend and bank holiday work.
With planning, you can shape your career to suit your needs and ambitions.
You will need to remain up to date to be an effective practitioner and you may continue your education after you graduate with CPD (Continuing Professional Development).
This expectation helps with career progression as nurses have the opportunity to specialise in areas such as dual diagnosis, dementia or child and adolescent mental health.
Find out more about mental health Visit NHS Careers .
You will be able to progress to a range of taught Masters’ programmes including the employability service .
You will also have the opportunity to undertake work-based learning studies at postgraduate level.
In order to gain professional registration with the NMC you will need to complete a minimum of 2300 hours in practice during your course.
Up to 450 hours of the 2300 will be met through Simulated Practice Learning.
Practice experiences can take place in an approved learning environment in any of the NHS Trusts that are part of NHS London and in the independent, private sector and local authority.
We work in partnership with practice placement providers and that the environment is conducive to meeting individual learning to ensure quality monitoring of the learning environment.
You have the opportunity to engage with practice opportunities through the expansive learning modules including volunteering, charity work or work overseas.
This is negotiable with the module leader to ensure experiences and personal objectives fit with the module objectives.
Our MSc Mental Health Studies , MDXworks will launch you into the world of work from the beginning of your course, with placements, projects and networking opportunities through our 1000+ links with industry and big-name employers in London and globally.
And after you graduate, we'll support you through our alumni network to help you progress in your chosen career.
*We also accept the equivalency tests by Equivalency Testing , A Star Teachers or any other appropriately accredited provider.
Applicants must be digitally literate as all recruitment processes and many teaching and learning activities within the programme involve the use of technology and digital processes, reflecting the realities of healthcare practice.
Please be aware of the recent UK Government policy update about the need to be fully vaccinated before you commence your programme with us in September.
application process.
for Nursing, Midwifery and Nursing Associate Students.
All nursing and midwifery students are required to have the necessary blood tests, screening and vaccinations to ensure you comply with the Department of Health guidelines on immunisations and screening to protect both you and your patients.
You will not be able to attend a clinical placement until you are fully assessed and cleared by occupational health advisors.
Our occupational health screening processes are designed to assess your medical suitability to work in a variety of healthcare settings.
If it is decided that you are unable to safely work in a clinical setting due to medical reasons the University will endeavour to guide you to a more suitable programme.
If you have View guidance , we may be able to count this towards your entry requirements.
Interviews will be held virtually or at our Hendon campus depending on what is convenient for you.
If you are successful at interview, you will then be offered a place on the course subject to academic, health and DBS requirements.
Please find more information here about our relevant qualifications or work experience
You must have been ordinarily resident in the UK for three years at the beginning of the year when your course starts and have a full settled status.
112 UCAS points
Find out more on the relevant country support page .
And if you are unsure about the suitability of your qualifications or would like help with your application, please contact your nearest regional office .
The most common qualification we accept is the IELTS 7.0 (with a minimum 7.0 in all sections).
Please apply via UCAS using this UCAS code B760.
"I had been a support worker for four years and felt that the best way to advance my career was to get my degree and professional registration as a mental health nurse.
I was unable to obtain funding through student finance, so the NHS funded course and bursary enabled me to study full time and further my career.
The enthusiasm for nursing at Middlesex from those who facilitate the course is infectious.
Our tutors and lecturers are either still in practice or have recent experience.
The range of placements is fantastic, the passion and commitment of the staff is unrivalled and the facilities and support networks in place provide students with the best tools to succeed.
Rebecca Manning
Nursing (Mental Health) BSc student
"I was really intrigued by the Nursing programme at Middlesex, providing placements in interesting settings, a strong reputation in the Mental Health field and generally offering a degree that incorporates both practice and theory.
I've really enjoyed the skills sessions such as CPR and manual handling, as they're skills that I will keep with me for life.
My experience of being on placement so far has been fascinating and has confirmed my desire and interest to become a qualified nurse.
Robert Grant

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/subjects/natural-sciences/biosciences:
Study in London at our new eco-friendly medical science and technology centre, featuring some of the UK's best facilities.
With over 30 lab spaces, including a bio-modelling centre and mass spectrometry suites, you'll benefit from state-of-the-art resources housed in our £36 million Hatchcroft Building.
Our courses help you make industry connections across our many partnerships with organisations including the NHS.
You'll learn from internationally recognised lecturers at the front line of clinical practice.
At our state-of-the-art Hatchcroft facilities, you can experience life in a professional lab.
You'll develop skills and techniques at the forefront of scientific research and industry.
Professional placements and industrial internships provide invaluable industry insight.
If you join us as a postgraduate student, you can fast-track your career with a broad programme blending academic theory with professional practice.
Our courses will prepare you for rewarding roles in industries such as:

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/subjects/healthcare-and-social-work/veterinary-nursing:
Students studying the BSc (Hons) Veterinary Nursing and BSc (Hons) Veterinary Nursing with Foundation Year programmes spend 50% of their time on work placements meaning you’ll graduate with the confidence to treat a wide variety of animals.
You can also choose to study in London, Huntingdon or Leeds.
Students studying on the Veterinary Nursing Top Up programme study online and have the choice of full or part time study, offering flexibility to fit your study around existing commitments.
Our courses not only open up employment opportunities in general veterinary practices but also in places such as:
Our courses are run in collaboration with the College of Animal Welfare.
You can choose to study in London, Huntingdon, or Leeds.
of students were positive about the teaching on their course (NSS 2025).

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/subjects/healthcare-and-social-work/healthcare-sciences:
Our diverse range of healthcare courses allow you to specialise in audiology, cardiac physiology, or public health, with opportunities to further develop your expertise in paediatric care or environmental health.
Thanks to our partnership with large organisations such as the NHS, you can create invaluable industry connections.
You'll also learn from a community of internationally recognised lecturers who are leading research from the front lines of clinical practice.
You'll have access to our state-of-the-art facilities at the Hendon campus and StoneX Stadium.
Here you'll find specialist spaces, simulation suites, fully equipped labs and much more.
Our graduates go on to work for well-known organisations including:
Read the Healthcare science interviews FAQs.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/subjects/natural-sciences/medical-science-and-technology:
Learn from internationally-recognised science lecturers, who are leading research in clinical practice.
Make professional connections through our partnerships with the NHS and study in our leading state-of-the-art facilities.
At Middlesex University London, you'll learn from internationally recognised lecturers who lead cutting-edge research in clinical practice.
Our courses connect you with industry professionals through extensive partnerships, including esteemed NHS partners such as Guy's and St Thomas’ Hospital and other famous organisations like Anthony Nolan and Harley Street Clinic.
You will gain both the theoretical knowledge and practical experience to set up your career in medical science and technology.
Study in London, at some of the UK's best facilities within our new eco-friendly centre for medical science and technology.
With over 30 lab spaces, including a bio-modelling centre and mass spectrometry suites, you'll have access to top-tier facilities at our £36m Hatchcroft Building.
Most courses offer an optional placement year for valuable practical experience and industry connections.
You'll apply what you have learned with placements and work experience modules.
These are designed to enhance your future employability and give you insight into the practical aspects of working in medical science and technology.
Our postgraduate courses offer on-the-job lab experience with pioneering organisations like Public Health England.
Our graduates have gone on to work for organisations, including NHS Trusts, Anthony Nolan and Boots.
After you finish your studies, you could find opportunities in a range of areas such as:
Middlesex graduates have gone on to be employed by the NHS and in private organisations, including Guys and St Thomas Hospital, Imperial Trust, and Royal London NHS.
Get access to our £36 million professional laboratories fully equipped with specialist technology, including psychophysiological monitoring, electroencephalography (EEG) and brain imaging techniques.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/subjects/business/accounting-finance-and-economics:
Boost your employability through hands-on learning with workplace software like Xero, Sage, and OneSource in our state-of-the-art Financial Markets Lab.
Accredited by eight leading global professional bodies, studying Accounting, Finance and Economics at Middlesex offers countless opportunities.
Many of our graduates have secured roles at top organisations like Centrica, Citibank, Deloitte, John Lewis, PwC, and Royal Mail.
Study at our Financial Markets Lab where you'll have access to the same professional software you'll use in your accounting, finance and economics career.
Become an expert in Zero, Sage and OneSource software, and experience our industry-standard Bloomberg and Datastream suites.
Our students have lots of opportunities to engage with accounting, finance and economics employers.
We hold a Silver Award for Employability from the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Students benefit from our London location, which means we're close to employers and networking opportunities.
Your finance, accounting and economics skills could be valued by a wide range of organisations.
Past graduates are working at the likes of: PwC, Deloitte, Grant Thornton, Philips, Centrica, City Bank, Credit Suisse, Leadenhall Finance, Royal Mail, Hacker Young and John Lewis, among others.
Potential career paths include:
We secured global recognition by winning the CIMA Global Silver Award for Employability.
Get access to some of the world’s biggest financial institutions and start-ups with our industry connections.
Including our Financial Markets Lab and Zero, Sage and OneSource software used in financial markets.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/clearing/how-to-apply:
Learn how to make an application through Clearing and when phone lines are open.
During Clearing, our advisors are available by phone 0208 411 6565 and Live Chat Monday to Friday 9am to 5pm, except Bank Holiday Monday (25 August).
If you need to contact us outside of these times, you can email clearing@mdx.ac.uk and we'll get back you as soon as we can.
Check our Clearing courses and join us this September

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-stories:
Hear from our students about their Clearing experiences.
Whether you change your mind about your course, don't get the grades, want to be closer to home, or otherwise, we're here to support you.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/clearing/how-to-prepare-for-clearing:
The following guide will help you prepare for Clearing.
Follow these steps and you'll be ready to make your application
It is important to do some research before making an application through clearing, even if you have already received your results.
This will calm any nerves as you'll be fully prepared.
You are almost ready to make an application through Clearing.
Take a look below to see which scenario you fit into, and this will help you know what steps to take next.
Like thousands of your peers, you are waiting for your results to check whether you have the grades to join your chosen course.
If you don't get the grades you need on results day you can make an application through clearing.
Ease your worries by preparing beforehand.
If you have already done your research and have the right information available, you'll be ready to contact us first thing in the morning.
You may already have your results if you are an international student, completed your studies recently, or are a mature student.
Once you have done your research and have your information available, you can apply.
Start your application on UCAS or contact us and we will support you through the process.
It is a big decision to choose a degree course and it is important you make the right decision for you.
If you're holding an offer for a course you no longer want to start, you have to decline your offer before applying through clearing.
To do so:
If you have not yet applied through UCAS, but you want to study a degree course, you can make a direct application to get onto Clearing.
Here are the steps:
Hi there I'm Praveen.
I'm one of the clearing advisors here at Middlesex University.
I know clearing can be really scary, but it's really nothing to worry about and there's a place out there for you.
So this is what to expect if you’re thinking about applying to Middlesex university through Clearing this year.
Clearing is a process where you get to apply to right when you get your exam results.
So the purpose of this guide is to make you ready for when these come out.
It’s a great opportunity if you did not receive the grades you were hoping for, or you change your mind in a course or a university or you haven't applied to uni at all.
As a clearing advisor, here are some tips that I could give you to make your journey easier.
First of all, do your research and find out which course you would like to apply for, and then make a list of all the universities offering this course, hopefully including Middlesex, and write down their contact details.
And after that, make sure you have all your qualifications ready because you will need them to apply for the university.
So result day is here, this is a big day cause you’re going to call all the universities.
But first things first, make sure you go on UCAS and check the situation on the applications that you might have applied for.
These are the four things that you need to have ready by the time you call us.
First of all, your exam results.
Ucas ID, the course that you want to apply for, and maybe any questions that you would like to ask for clearing advisors about it.
our call will be connected to one of us.
We will get your personal identification, Ucas ID, get details about the course you’d like to apply for, and then check our availability.
Check if you meet the entry requirements with your grades, and if yes, then we will be able to make you an offer.
So what happens after?
If you accept your offer via call then you’ll receive a confirmation email with all your details regarding your offer.
After that, you just need to log into your UCAS account and put the university as your clearing choice.
And then the university will confirm your place.
It’s that simple!

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-faqs:
Get all your questions answered, from how to apply to securing your student loan.
Whether you're awaiting results, considering a course change, or curious about student finance, our FAQs and dedicated admissions team are here to help you.
If you have your results, you can apply now.
Clearing opens on July 5 and closes on the 17 October.
Places are on a first come, first serve basis, so get in touch as soon as possible to secure your place on your course of choice.
Most Clearing activity takes place around A-level results day.
Other qualifications, such as BTEC, SQA and QCF & RCF, will also be released on this day.
We'll be available from  8am on results day to support you with your applications and enquiries.
However, you can beat the rush by signing up for a priority phone call.
Clearing, or UCAS Clearing, allows you to study the course right for you at the university of your choice after the normal UCAS cycle has finished on July 4.
Every year, Clearing helps thousands find a university place and a home for the next 3 years (or beyond).
Clearing opens on 5 July – 20 October 2025.
Prospective students can apply for a course using Clearing if they are not already holding an offer from a university or college, and the course still has places.
If you have your results already you can call us on 020 8411 6565 from July 1st and we can prepare your offer for when Clearing opens on July 5.
If you are waiting for your results on August 14 we can support and reassure you or your net steps on results day.
Most courses are available through Clearing, as long as places are available.
We advise applying as early as possible to avoid disappointment as we close the courses when they become full.
Search our courses
Clearing can be viewed as an opportunity for students to explore alternative pathways to achieving their academic and career goals.
It offers a chance to discover new courses and universities that may better align with their interests and strengths.
By approaching Clearing with an open mind and proactive attitude, students can find hidden gems and exciting opportunities they may not have considered initially.
You can call 020 8411 6565 or Live Chat with our friendly admissions advisors.
If you can give us an idea of what you want to study, and our Clearing advisers will help to match you to a course and help you feel prepared for Clearing.
Attend an open day to speak to an admission advisor in person and attend our Clearing information talk.
We do encourage prospective students to visit our campus to get a feel for life at Middlesex University.
Our campus tours offer a great opportunity to explore the facilities, meet current students and staff, and ask any questions you may have.
Yes, if you've declined an offer from another institution, you're still eligible to apply to Middlesex University through Clearing.
Clearing provides a second chance to find a course and university that's a better fit for your goals and aspirations.
Call 020 8411 6565 or Live Chat
Good news – no you don’t.
You can apply now or wait until clearing opens on 5 July .
Clearing is another chance for you to gain a place at university or college.
Find out more about UCAS Clearing then call us on 020 8411 6565 for support and advice on your next steps.
There are lots of reasons why people apply through Clearing.
You can too if:
To make the most of your Clearing call, have your exam results, UCAS ID (if applicable), and a list of courses you're interested in ready.
If you have specific questions or concerns, jot these down too so we can address them during the call.
Clearing allows you to change your mind about where or what you study.
What's more, you can call us on 020 8411 6565 and discuss your options before you make any final decisions about an offer you have already accepted.
If you decide you want to come and join us at Middlesex, our teams will guide you through the process of selecting our offer.
Live Chat
Certainly!
While going through Clearing may not have been the initial plan for many students, it does come with its own set of advantages:
After receiving an offer through Clearing, you're encouraged to respond as soon as possible, as courses can fill up quickly.
However, it's important to take the time you need to make an informed decision.
We recommend discussing your options with family, friends, or one of our admissions team for support and advice.
Yes - we offer a range of halls of residence catering to different needs and preferences.
Usher Hall, located in a quiet residential area opposite the Hendon campus, provides easy access to the university.
In Colindale, Platt Hall is one of the largest halls, featuring shared flats ideal for students seeking a more social living environment, while Writtle House offers a quieter, more intimate setting in a historic building, popular with mature students.
For those who prefer a vibrant local scene, Ivy Hall in Cricklewood offers rooms clustered around a charming courtyard, with the shops and restaurants of Cricklewood Broadway just a short walk away.
Learn more about acommodation
Yes, there is still time to apply to start your course in September 2025.
How to apply for undergraduate courses
Student loans are available for any eligible students accepted through Clearing.
You should apply as soon as possible to avoid delays to your first payment.
If you've applied late to Student Finance England and won't receive your first loan payment by the start of the term, we can provide short-term loans of up to £500.
Pick up a form from your local Student Centre on campus.
Suppose you've already applied for a loan but changed universities during Clearing.
In that case, you must notify your loan provider (Student Finance England or similar).
We also offer a range of scholarships and bursaries that may benefit you.
Some of these you could receive automatically when you join.
Find out about student finance
We’ll help you make the most of your time as a student with a range of financial support available to you.
Middlesex University offers a variety of scholarships and bursaries tailored to individual needs, we want to ensures all students have the tools and financial support needed to thrive.
Our Clearing Starter Kits worth up to £1000 are available to apply for up until August 23rd and could provide essential resources for eligible new students.
Additionally, we provide free equipment such as laptop loans to aid your learning experience and part-time work opportunities through the university.
Explore available Scholarships & Bursaries for Clearing student.
Students who join Middlesex University through Clearing have access to the same wide range of support services as all other students including our Ready For Anything programme to ensure you have a seamless journey into university life.
We offer other support such as our award-winning academic support, financial support packages and help with part-time work, mental health and wellbeing services, and lifetime career support.
Our goal is to ensure you have the support you need to succeed at university.
We've got a helpful guide for parents to help provide lots of information to support your child.
Yes, international students are welcome to apply through Clearing.
You'll need to meet the course requirements and have the necessary visas and documentation to study in the UK.
Our international admissions team is available to provide support and guidance throughout the process.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/get-in-touch/meet-us/campus-tours/campus-tour-booking:
Each tour slot lasts up to 45 minutes and will be limited to groups of ten people.
You will be permitted to book for yourself and up to one guest.
Places are limited, so please make sure you can attend before booking.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/apply-for-research-degrees:
Begin your research career with Middlesex University and get a degree that will empower you to take your career into new exciting directions.
Apply for Research courses through our Online Applicant Portal .
Create an Online Applicant Portal account to submit your application directly to us and track its progress.
You can also upload your supporting documents, portfolio and show-reel and make subsequent applications.
See the list of available Research Degrees
With a funded studentship, you'll contribute to research projects at the university while you complete your research degree and get a maintenance loan to allow you to study full-time.
You may also want to explore the UK Government's loan scheme.
If it's applicable to your application, you will also need to provide references on letter headed paper along with a copy of your CV.
If you're applying for an art and design degree, you must include a copy of your portfolio.
If you are a current Middlesex student, you do not need to submit transcripts or references.
If you're likely to change postal or email address before starting your degree then give your most permanent contact details.
We send all our admissions communications via email so it's important that this information is accurate.
Make sure that you add our email address to your inbox safe list too.
What you write in your personal statement is essential to make your application stand out.
Follow our guide to your personal statement to get it right.
The research proposal will form a key part of your application.
It's important that you feel confident outlining your proposal as well as highlighting the area of research that interests you.
Make sure you are demonstrating that you are able to make an original contribution to a field of study, bearing in mind that a research degree can take several years to complete.
Your research proposal should:
We encourage you to discuss your proposal with an specialist academic before you submit your work.
You can explore your options with them and find out if we're able to support your studies.
As part of your discussion, we'll assess your prospective research proposal and advise on whether it seems suitable as the basis for your chosen research degree.
You can find prospective supervisors in our Staff Directory , for instance by filtering by departments.
Consider also looking at out Research Centres and Groups as these are were many of our researchers are embedded.
Make sure you have a working title and a short summary (abstract) of your overall proposal.
An excellent resource to help you structure and abstract is this one from The Writing Center .
Summarise key points and ideas of your intended research and identify why this research needs to be undertaken.
Set the context for your proposed research and demonstrate that it will add something new to your chosen area of research.
The rationale may include an indication of the principal issues, problems, controversies, ethical issues, and emerging theories; describing the contribution your research will make.
You can also take the opportunity to state how your past or current research, work experience, and achievements will support the completion of your research project.
Make a broad statement of the desired long-term outcomes and short-term objectives of your research.
The objectives can be numerous and emphasise how you plan to accomplish your aims or answer key questions.
They are more focused and concise than outcomes, and can be read as the practical steps you are going to take to answer your research question, test your hypothesis, or demonstrate how you will meet the overall goal.
Try to include one to two aims or questions to help guide your literature / field review and clearly define the overall focus of your research.
Explain how your research will be filling a gap in existing theory or knowledge.
You could also propose something which is controversial to existing ideas.
Describe and outline existing theories or research that is related to the research project you are proposing by reviewing key publications and / or creative works that address the research questions outlined.
Highlight the research methods you are planning to meet your aims and objectives.
You can explain the variety of data you intend to collect, how you intend to collect it, identify any quotas / demographics you intend to fill, and how you will analyse and evaluate your data, justifying why you chose a particular research method.
You can also include any resources, equipment and additional costs you may encounter as well as outlining any possible ethical issues which may arise and how you propose to address such issues.
Keep this section clear and concise, summarising the overall aims, objectives and possible outcomes of your research.
Make sure to highlight any important information that may be helpful to a reviewer.
Accurately reference all sources and cite them in your bibliography / reference list using a recognised referencing style appropriate to your discipline.
Phillips, E.
M., & Pugh, D.
How to Get a PhD: A Handbook for Students and Their Supervisors (6th ed.).
Open University Press.
Dunleavy, P.
(2003).
Authoring a PhD: How to Plan, Draft, Write and Finish a Doctoral Thesis or Dissertation.
Palgrave Macmillan.
Walliman, N.
Your Research Project: Designing and Planning Your Work (4th ed.).
SAGE Publications.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/research-degrees/mphilphd-study-at-middlesex:
With a research degree from Middlesex University, you'll explore innovative ways to tackle major academic problems – and make a new and original contribution to existing knowledge.
In essence, the main difference between an MPhil and a PhD relates to the contribution you make to existing knowledge on the research topic that you've selected.
A PhD contributes new knowledge beyond what's currently available whereas an MPhil contributes new understanding of existing knowledge, by way of a critical review or evaluation.
MPhil/PhD study can be undertaken on a full or part-time basis.
C andidates with a body of work produced prior to registration equivalent in originality, coherence and significance to a PhD can apply for a PhD by Public Works.
A Director of Studies and at least one (second) supervisor from the University will conduct your research supervision.
Often, an external supervisor is also involved.
They also advise on subject reading, relevant taught degrees, research seminars and workshops.
The MPhil/PhD programme allows for either a thesis, that is, a text-based research project, or, in a mixed mode, a thesis plus an artefact:
You will be expected to attend the University Researcher Development Programme, which consists of weekly sessions that aim to build your skills as a researcher, both for your current project and for your future career.
Your progression will be dependent on satisfactory engagement with the Researcher Development Programme.
For doctoral research, applicants are expected to have at least one of the following:
UK/EU and international students are eligible to apply for this programme.
Entry onto this programme will require an interview.
International students who require a Tier 4 Student Visa to progress on a degree at Middlesex University must apply for study on a full-time basis.
However, this degree is offered part-time so you are eligible to apply on a part-time basis.
Changes to the Immigration Rules introduced in January 2018 now allows international applicants apply for Student route (formerly tier 4) visas for part-time postgraduate study (courses leading to a qualification at RQF level 7 or SCQF level 11 and above).
*Please note that, if the degree of your choice involves work experience, unpaid work, placements or internships, we will be unable to sponsor you to study a part-time degree under the Student route (formerly tier 4) visa.
Please visit our postgraduate application page for further information and to apply.
Full-time students: £6,400
Part-time students: £3,200 flat fee per year
Full-time students: £16,000
Part-time students: £8,200 flat fee per year
Fees disclaimers 1.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/research-degrees/phd-by-public-works:
Learn about the course below
A PhD by Public Works is a research degree gained by candidates with a body of work produced prior to registration equivalent in originality, coherence and significance to a PhD.
It consists of the submission for examination of works that are the outcome of a research process and that are accessible in the public domain (or for which evidence of their existence and significance is publicly accessible) as well as a context statement, also called critical commentary, of up to 30,000 words which contextualises the works and explains their contribution to knowledge in a particular research field, topic or at a interdisciplinary level.
Both the works and the context statement are assessed by examiners at the viva against the QAA level 8 descriptors for doctoral degrees.
Examples of Public Works are: peer-reviewed scholarly publications, books, artworks in various formats, including performances, artefacts, other scholarly texts or reports.
Requirements of what is accepted as a public work for this programme vary according to the discipline The PhD by Public Works is a part-time degree in which the expected submission time is 18 months and the maximum candidature period is 24 months.
As per our Regulations, the minimum candidature period is 12 months.
The PhD by Public Works is available in any discipline (subject to availability of supervision arrangements) and in any Faculty of the University.
As a PhD by Public Works student, you will produce a context statement, also called critical commentary, of up to 30,000 words.
The context statement provides a reflective and analytical discussion of the works presented and explains why such works embed creation, interpretation or exposition of knowledge that can be or have been considered as being at the forefront of their field.
The context statement contextualises the works within the field of research; provides an overview of the main themes, and significance; discusses the methodologies employed in the presented work.
It also establishes a comprehensive narrative that ties together the individual publications, illustrating how they collectively form a coherent body of work.
Further, it outlines the consistency and continuity of the research themes, concepts, or methodologies across the publications.
The context statement critically examines the limitations of the research embodied in the works, acknowledging any challenges or constraints encountered during the research process and suggests potential avenues for future research.
Finally, it outlines the original contribution to knowledge and the theoretical and practical implications of the body of work.
Six months into the programme, you will submit your work in progress to a Stage 1 Review Panel.
This will normally consist of a draft of the context statement of 6,000 words.
The Review Panel considers whether the work submitted demonstrates the necessary skills and abilities to complete the context statement to the required doctoral level.
The review also determines the adequacy and sustainability of supervision arrangements and of resources and training needed by the candidate to complete the submission.
The Review Panel considers any ethical implication raised by the Public Works (though already in the public domain) and the context statement.
Candidates must possess a body of work in the public domain with demonstrated impact in their own field of research.
The work can be constituted by any publication, artefact or performance that has a whole is relevant to the specific field of research the candidate has applied for.
Examples of such works are: publications in high-quality academic journals; books that have had impact in the field; artwork and performances; artefacts of any kind.
The work must be either accessible in the public domain or evidence of its existence should exist in the public domain should the work be performative in nature.
The Public Works put forward by the candidate are assessed at admission stage against the QAA Level 8 Doctoral criteria for their contribution to knowledge and equivalence in significance, methodology and originality to a PhD.
Other University’s eligibility criteria apply, such as, normally, holding a Master’s degree and demonstrating English language proficiency.
The proposal for a PhD by Public Works consists of a statement of motivation and an account that outlines the significance, originality and coherence of the Public Works presented for admission.
The proposal should contain a full list of the works submitted for admission with hyperlinks to access them in the public domain.
In case of works of joint authorship a signed statement should clarify their own contribution to these works.
Admission requires the conduct of an interview with at least an expert in the research field the candidate is applying for.
This individual might also be a prospective Director of Studies.
Interviewers will consider the likelihood of the public works to be considered at doctoral level at the final examination and the potential of the applicant to complete a context statement at that level.
Apply for this course through our online portal .
Applicants are recommended to submit the following documents along with their application form:
Once complete, please email your application and supporting documents to research.adm@mdx.ac.uk .
If you have any queries, please email the Research department or call 0208 411 5555.
We encourage all applicants to discuss their proposal with an academic who specialises in your preferred area of research in advance of submitting it.
Profiles of our staff members, including their contact details can be found here .
Once you have submitted your application, you will receive an email acknowledgements within five working days.
From the day you receive your applicant number it can take up to 3 weeks to receive an initial admissions decision.
However, during busier periods, this process may take longer.
If there is any supporting documents missing or pending your application will be considered incomplete and this may delay your admissions process.
If you are unsure if your application is complete please follow this link to the applicant portal to view the status of your application.
If you are an overseas student, you may be required to book a credibility interview which will help prepare you for the VISA application process.
This would need to happen before we can make you an official offer.
Please see our VISA advice page for more information on the Visa Process.
Please note that for the majority of our research disciplines, the University has fixed intake terms (October/January).
You can apply for a research degree at any time of the year, however you will start your study in either October or January.
Requests to start your studies outside of these intakes will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis.
We encourage you to submit your application as early as possible so that your proposal can be reviewed in good time ahead of the October or January intake.
We recommend that you submit your application no later than two months ahead of the upcoming term's intake.
In addition to the standard intake dates, applicants for research in the field of Computer Science also have the option of starting their studies in May.
Part-time study: £3,200 (flat fee per year)
Part-time study: £8,200 (flat fee per year)
Funding (also referred to as studentships) for research degrees is limited, and most research degree students are expected to pay their own fees and subsistence costs.
Students are free to seek external sources of funding.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/research-degrees/mamsc-by-research:
A Master’s by Research degree provides you with strong research skills training, the possibility to manage a complex project and the opportunity to join the community of postgraduate researchers.
Master’s by Research are postgraduate research degrees at Masters level, offered throughout the University in all represented disciplines.
There is no taught component.
Instead, you are expected to carry out a research project, supported by specialist supervision.
However, you are expected to attend training and development workshops, meeting university requirements and delivering subject-specific training.
Students are supported in their independent research study by a supervisory team composed of two faculty members with expertise in your chosen subject area.
A Master’s by Research is also an excellent foundation to embark on a doctorate, and can be undertaken full-time (12-month submission time) or part-time (24-month submission time).
You will gain admission by submitting an application to our research degrees application portal in which you will outline your proposal for a Masters’ level research.
If your application has potential, you will be called for an online interview.
As a postgraduate researcher, you would be expected to attend training and development as required, as well as to demonstrate progress in your research.
A Master's by Research student will be required to undertake a panel review (Stage 1 Review) after 2 months (FT) or 3 months (PT).
This will involve submitting a report of the work undertaken to date.
The review will help us to determine whether you are demonstrating the necessary skills and abilities to progress on the programme and what resources and support you may need going forward.
After submission of your final research project (the format will depend on the discipline and subject area), you will undertake a viva voce examination, that will determine the final outcome and the classification of your degree.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/doctor-of-professional-studies-transdisciplinary:
This programme is designed to help the individual practitioner respond to the complex, high level challenges that show up in their work
One of the distinctive features of high-level professional practice is the extent to which we are required to negotiate our way across a complex, changing, professional landscape.
As transdisciplinary practitioners, we work in organisational, social and political environments that call for agility and imagination, stretching our professional expertise and challenging our personal values.
As agents of change we need the insight and ability to gather and evaluate multiple forms of evidence and employ knowledge from many different and, at times, conflicting sources.
Transdisciplinary practitioners act intentionally from perspectives that embrace the multi-layered nature of reality, move freely across boundaries, and work into and through the paradoxes and contradictions rather than around them.
The Doctor of Professional Studies (Transdisciplinary) (DProf TD) is open to experienced practitioners from all professional areas who bring a high level of curiosity and passion to their commitment to make a positive difference to their sector/field.
As a candidate for this award you will undertake a critical reflection on your personal and professional practice followed by a piece of doctoral level practice–focused research in your own context, organisation or community of practice.
At the end of the programme you will submit a research thesis and present and discuss your work to a panel, a process commonly referred to as the viva.
On successful completion of this final milestone, you will be awarded a doctorate and can be addressed as Doctor.
The DProf (TD) is the professional equivalent to the PhD and has the same rigorous assessment methods and criteria.
You are an advanced professional practitioner who is probably working in a senior managerial position or a consultant /director/entrepreneur responsible for leading/developing thinking, practice and people.
Our candidates span professions as diverse as global investment, IT, higher education, executive coaching and public health.
The connection between these fields is not your technical knowledge or skill, but the professionalism required of the practice and the higher level engagement and criticality you desire to develop in yourself, in your future role and in others.
If you wish to solely enhance your technical expertise in your specialist discipline this doctoral pathway would not be the most appropriate choice for you.
If your motivation is to bring about shifts and changes in thinking and practice cultures in complex situations, creatively and innovatively, and for which you are responsible and accountable - as it is driven by your evolved agency and your perception of the world as interconnected and complex - then take up the challenge and join us to make a unique and significant impact a reality.
It is important that you have an conversation with the Admissions Lead for this programme before applying: contact DProfTD@mdx.ac.uk or Dr Agi Ryder at a.i.ryder@mdx.ac.uk to set up an appointment.
It is a competitive programme with limited places and the initial conversation will be an opportunity to decide whether you want to proceed to application.
If you decide that you do want to apply, the team will be able to guide you through the process as well.
The DProf (TD) is a 4-5 year part time research degree undertaken in your field of practice.
Your professional situation and personal agency are the focus of your development as a practitioner researcher and as such will inform your choice of research design that will be most relevant and innovative to influencing your own thinking and professional practice as well as the thinking and practice of your peers and sector.
There are two entry points in the year, in September and January.
On enrolment you will join a cohort of candidates from different backgrounds, locations and professional fields who become a supportive learning community.
During the first stage of the programme (6-9 months) you will participate in a weekly online workshop with other members of your cohort leading to the first milestone of the programme confirming your ability to work at doctoral level.
Regular online workshops continue into Stage 2 (a further 6-9 months) which is designed to enable you to develop a comprehensive, coherent and convincing research proposal to be undertaken at Stage 3 (which usually takes a further 2-3 years).
Throughout the programme you will have access to online resources designed specifically to support your research.
Approximately 4 to 6 months after enrolment you will be assigned to a Director of Studies who will serve as your principal supervisor to support you throughout your period of study.
As the focus of your work develops one or two supervisors may be assigned in the role of specialists on aspects of your research.
They could be for a leading professional in your practice field, a known writer on aspects such as leadership; complexity and culture or an academic specialist in your chosen research design.
Regular contact with your Director of Studies throughout your research is essential and may occur through face to face meetings, online on Zoom or similar video networks, or by email.
These meetings will provide opportunity for formative feedback on written work and discussion of issues arising in the research and any other concerns that might have an effect on your progress.
Progress through the programme is formally assessed at the Stage 1 and Stage 2 Reviews.
The programme's final destination is the viva voce , the oral examination of a thesis presented by the candidate.
Suitable candidates will have:
There are two entry points every academic year, in September and in January.
The head of this programme is Associate Professor, Kate Maguire.
It is a competitive programme with limited places.
So it's important that you have a conversation with the Admissions Lead for this programme before applying.
A chat will be the opportunity to find out more about the process and decide whether you want to proceed to application.
Apply for this course.
Participants on this programme are often well established in their field and decide to undertake a Professional Doctorate either to enhance their skills and knowledge in their present role or to advance their career.
Many testify to the way their understanding of themselves and their agency and their influence on their practice domain has been transformed.
UK students 1
Part-time students: £6,400 per year
International students 2
Part-time students: £9,050 per year Additional course costs

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/mastersdoctor-of-professional-studies-mprofdprof:
This professional doctorate has been designed to support research qualifications for senior professionals in an expansive range of specialisms.
The programme is delivered as a partnership between the Faculties of Health, Social Care and Education, and Science and Technology.
The Masters and Doctor of Professional Studies (MProf and DProf) have been developed with specialist pathways to reflect the complex developmental work of senior professionals an expansive range of specialisms.
Professional Doctorates have the equivalent status of a PhD and are designed as research-based qualifications for busy working professionals as part-time independent studies.
Postgraduate researchers on this programme have the ambition and drive to create impact in their chosen field of practice.
The projects undertaken are based on cutting-edge issues that can contribute new knowledge and are catalysts for change.
Our programme supports new knowledge that is created through disciplinary, multidisciplinary interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary (Mode 2) study that focuses on the professional development of the practitioner as well as the complex issues that are being addressed through the research project.
This programme is for advanced practitioners who wish to undertake research within their own professional context but we share as a community a commitment to diversity, inclusion and social justice.
The experiential projects are distinctive in that you are placed at the centre of your research investigation, and therefore your work will be highly applicable to your professional development and career progression.
You will begin by critically reflecting on your practice, before designing and undertaking a practice–based research project which makes a substantial contribution to your organisation and field.
This M/DProf degree works with disciplinary, multidisciplinary, interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary theory and knowledge.
Areas of supervisory practice expertise include Health, Public Health, Social Work and Social Care, Education (Schools, Further Education, Apprenticeships, Higher Education, and Lifelong), Risk, Environment, Biomedical Science Psychology, and Sports Science and many new pathways now being created in high-level professional practice.
It is also possible to complete a shorter MProf or DProf by Public Works .
This approach is suitable for senior individuals who have achieved a substantial amount of research and development at the appropriate level and which is available within the public domain.
The award of MProf or DProf is based upon submission of a critical commentary on the public works.
The candidate is supported by an academic adviser and consultant in the same way as the conventional award.
The Doctorate is supported at Stage 1 and Stage 2 with specific research training and group sessions to engage with your professional values, leadership capabilities, and ability to become the principal investigator for your research project.
Every candidate has a Director of Studies and Second Supervisor who work with you on your final stage research project completion and oral examination.
Our programme aims to provide the expertise needed to develop your professional knowledge and
For more information and informal discussion contact Dr Paula Nottingham (PGR Lead) who can discuss your interests and help direct further inquiries.
Our ongoing in-house journal may be of interest: see journal here .
We encourage practitioner scholars to publish their research and engage in knowledge exchange as a part of their doctoral journey.
An academic advisor is assigned to you at the start of your programme and will be available to you throughout your period of research.
As the focus of your work develops subject specialist consultants will be assigned to you so that you can draw on appropriate expertise in your area of enquiry or methodology.
You will also have resources such as handbooks and online materials to enhance your learning journey as well as access to seminars, workshops and lectures held at the campus.
Normally candidates for the DProf Framework have significant experience in their professional life and are also likely to have a masters degree.
Where an applicant does not possess a masters degree, previous experience of higher education is not a prerequisite but experience within the work environment is essential.
It is preferable that candidates for this programme will have experience of management of people and projects with significant technical experience.
If you have relevant qualifications or work experience , academic credit may be awarded towards your Middlesex University programme of study.
To find out more about the qualifications we accept visit the relevant country support page .
You will not need a visa to study in the UK if you are a citizen of Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway or Switzerland.
If you are a national of any other country you may need a visa to study in the UK .
International students who require a Student Route (formerly tier 4) visa to progress on a course at Middlesex University must apply for study on a full-time basis.
International applicants can apply for a Student Route (formerly tier 4) visas for part-time postgraduate study (courses leading to a qualification at RQF level 7 or SCQF level 11 and above).
Please also submit the following documents along with your application:
Entry onto this course will require an interview.
Part-time students: £6,400 (flat fee per year)
Part-time students: £9,050 (flat fee per year)

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/research-degrees/doctor-of-professional-studies-transdisciplinary-by-public-works:
The Doctor of Professional Studies (Transdisciplinary) by Public Works (DProf Public Works) is unique in the UK for its transdisciplinary approach to thinking, practice and practitioner research.
You will be a high achieving professional practitioner who has a capacity for critical reflection and is motivated by curiosity - both hallmarks of successful learning.
You will already have a substantial amount of outputs in the public domain that influence the practice and thinking of your colleagues, teams, members of your sector and beyond.
You are looking for new ways to approach the concept of leadership and its manifestation in the world and to the increasing complexity of the problems facing us today.
You want to push the boundaries of your own thinking and practice and are prepared to challenge your assumptions and let go of some habits of thought and action.
This programme encourages you to think about things differently and creatively and to derive new energy from other ways of seeing, thinking, knowing and doing, starting with looking at the familiar as if it is strange and moving towards developing a transdisciplinary attitude to everything you do.
It is a paradigm shift.
The programme is distinct at other levels: its collegial support; diversity range; enhancement of individual agency; expanded exposure to readings beyond disciplines; its networking and its timescale.
It is open to all professional areas and roles.
The focus of your research will be defined by your particular work context, role and agency and by your own unique area of interest.
As candidates, you come together regularly in virtual cafes for workshops, dialogue and networking, open exchanges and interconnected learning.
Our transdisciplinary perspectives inform our creative approaches to researching and navigating complexity recognising that the role of the contemporary professional requires mediation within, between and beyond traditional boundaries.
This award is primarily concerned with you critiquing your own contributions, deriving new insights from the outputs you have already placed in the public domain to influence others and how to continue to innovate and advance collaborative agency, strategies and leadership.
This is also an invitation to professionals not only to join the academy through a doctorate but to influence the university’s strategies and directions.
For better futures we need to do things together.
The public works can be in various forms: from published works in the traditional sense to other embodied expressions of knowledge appropriate to the domains of practice.
Examples include creations/innovations in the areas of digital technologies, science, arts and humanities embodied in artefacts such as scholarly works, art, policies, education programmes, choreographies, inventions, plays, musical scores.
The public domain is understood as a learning reach in your own sector and/or the general public, from communities of practice to organisations.
The influence on thinking and practice in any of these areas needs to be evidenced.
The time frame for this award is a maximum of two years.
As a candidate for this award, you will undertake a 25,000–45,000 words critique of your public works, depending on the nature of the works themselves, and present it to a viva panel.
With the successful completion of the examination you will achieve a doctorate and can be addressed by the title ‘Dr’.
The programme is delivered on line through virtual meetings and supervision.
You can also take advantage of other workshops across the faculty and university and attend campus events when you can.
Your task on this doctoral programme is to select and organise your public works for submission and prepare a context statement.
Regular contact with your adviser and consultant is essential for progress to be made at the correct academic level and also helps to ensure the effective management of any problems which may arise during your period of registration.
If you are a candidate at the start of your second study period, your adviser reports to the doctoral assessment board on the quality of your draft work for the proposed degree, with particular reference to the content, rationale and length of the context statement, and its relation to the public works.
If progress is deemed satisfactory, you may continue to prepare your work for submission.
Once your adviser is satisfied that your intended submission, taken as a whole (the public works and the context statement), is likely to be considered to fulfil the requirements for the award of the DProf by Public Works, the work may be submitted for examination.
If concerns about quality are raised by the adviser when they report to the doctoral assessment board, they will advise you that the draft work must be submitted to a programme approval panel (known as the 'registration panel').
A registration panel consists of:
This panel evaluates your work and states what improvements need to be made before it can be submitted for final examination.
Your procedural task on this doctoral programme is to select and organise your public works for submission and prepare a critical commentary on them to be presented for written and oral examination.
To reach that stage you will need to develop in levels of criticality to mature your critical commentary to doctoral level.
Regular attendance at the virtual cafes and contact with your supervisory team are essential for progress to be made at the academic level and also helps to ensure the effective management of any problems which may arise during the allocated period for this programme.
Your supervisors attend supervision meetings regularly to share insights and support the programme’s transdisciplinary approach.
There will be a review after 6 months to see how you are getting on and whether you have enough support or are able to engage sufficiently with the support offered.
The virtual cafes are excellent networking spaces attended by a mixture of candidates, faculty and guests who are graduates of the programme.
Presentations for discussion are given by both faculty and candidates and can range from the ‘provenance’ of your public works to critical lenses with which to critique them; from conceptualising practice to nuances in ethics; from radical creativity to insight-ing; from the complicated to the complex; from disciplinary to transdisciplinary; and how to write beautifully and coherently.
There are also mock viva presentations where you can be an audience or present.
All sessions are recorded and readings to support the workshops uploaded onto the Public Works platform in case you miss the occasional one.
The degree is assessed through written submission, 25,000–45,000 words critique of your public works.
This is presented for oral examination to a chaired viva panel of examiners.
This programme nominates three examiners – a research academic; a representative from your sector who is a proficient practitioner; and an internal examiner with experience in examining doctorates and well versed in public works doctorates.
This is a programme for individuals with substantial professional experience at a senior level who have, through public works, made considerable impact on their profession, on practice and on knowledge that supersede or complement more traditional entry requirements.
You need to be fluent in both written and spoke English.
The application process includes a preparatory meeting with academic admissions tutors, an independent review of your works to see if they meet our criteria, a formal application and an interview.
If you decide that you do not meet the full criteria for the Public Works doctoral route e.g.
you may not have enough public works or you want to carry out a piece of innovative research rather than a critical commentary on what you have already done, you may wish to consider the transdisciplinary practice Doctorate in Professional Studies .
The head of this programme is Professor Kate Maguire k.maguire@mdx.ac.uk It is important that you have a conversation with the Academic Admission Leads for this programme before formally applying: contact DProfTD@mdx.ac.uk to set up an appointment It is a competitive programme with limited places and a chat will be the opportunity to decide whether to proceed to application and if you do, you will find the conversation helpful with the process.
All enquirers will be invited to our introductory workshops.
The application process involves a detailed statement and your public works.
Our Admission Leads will give you guidance on how to do this.
The selection committee will decide whether your works are substantial enough to send to an independent reviewer in your sector or area of influence.
Your entry into the programme depends, in the first instance, on that review outcome before you can proceed to the next stage of interview.
Please note that an agreement for you to go ahead with an application is not the offer of a place.
You may then submit your application to the Programme which must include the following:
You will also need to include a justification statement (750-1000 words plus the matrix or 1500 words if you are presenting an integrated statement) which addresses the following points:
Your application will be reviewed by the DProf by Public Works programme leader and a reviewer with expertise in your field.
If it is deemed acceptable at this stage, you will be invited to attend an interview with two members of the core team.
At the interview, your public works, and your intended context statement will be discussed further.
Following the interview, you will be notified whether or not your application has been successful.
The degree can be awarded after a minimum of 2 semesters and after an oral presentation and viva voce.
The Public Works are acceptable for review provided there is a permanent record of them, they are public and accessible, and the work embodies a research and development process and influence on practice/knowledge can be evidenced.
In the context statement you must demonstrate:
Delivery of this programme is through the advisor and consultant, the programme handbooks, the virtual learning environment and university learning resources.
You are invited to all research seminars and events which are also recorded and posted up on the VLE.
A timetable of drafts is worked out between you and your advisor.
A viva will be arranged once there is notification of your intended submission date.
The viva panel includes two external examiners and one internal.
Previous experience of higher education is not a prerequisite.
However the public works have to be considered substantial and influential by the reviewer.
Substantial may be one complex and impactful work or a series of works or a mixture of outputs that demonstrate research and development links between them.
Part of the application process requires you to complete a grid of selected works and why you think they are substantial and the evidence to support your claim.
Once you have read the application process, and would like to have further discussion about whether this programme would be suitable for you, please email the Programme Leader, Kate Maguire .
For more information, please email our team .
Part-time students: £9,050 per year
"The DProf by Public Works programme has helped me to assess my contributions to the field over the years and chart out a course for the future.
The process requires a constant questioning of one's contributions starting with the most basic question – "why is this important?" The process requires introspection and the reassessing of one's assumptions and this has inevitably led to excellent personal and professional growth.
Dr Rohan Bedi
Senior Executive, Money Laundering Risk (AML)
"As an experienced consultant in the arts and cultural sector, I had carried out a lot of research over several years and wanted to find a way to find time for reflection on this body of work and my working practices.
The DProf by Public Works programme at Middlesex was ideal as I was able to continue with my work whilst studying.
The process was an amazing learning experience and gave me the chance to validate my work which would not have been possible with a conventional doctorate programme.
Dr Susanne Burns
Development Consultant
"This has been a truly transformative experience.
It allowed me to privilege professional knowledge generated in and through work, research and practice at doctoral level.
This is something we desperately need in an environment where knowledge is more often created in complexity and through the interplay of the person, workplace, organisation and context.
A doctorate for the future?
Dr Ruth Pilkington
Academic Developer, Higher Education

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/research-degrees/doctor-of-professional-studies-dprof-by-public-works:
The Doctorate in Professional Studies by Public Works (DProf Public Works) is for high achieving professional practitioners who already have a substantial amount of outputs in the public domain which influence practice and contribute to knowledge (public works).
What is distinctive about the DProf by Public Works is that it is open to all professional areas as the focus is defined by the candidate’s particular work context and area of activity and their own unique area of interest.
This may be located within a profession or sector, or may be more individual in nature.
The public works can be in various forms from published works in the traditional sense to other embodied expressions of knowledge.
Examples include the preparation of computer programmes, scholarly works, edited texts, specialist reports prepared for government departments and other public bodies, translations, collections of artefacts, videos, photographic records, musical scores, and diagrammatic representations.
(Please refer to our case studies listed under the case studies tab)
This award is primarily concerned with the individual critiquing their own contributions and deriving further learning from the knowledge outcomes they have placed in the public domain.
The value of this undertaking to the individual is the impact on future directions and outputs and to others it is a valuable insight into the processes and skills required to transform research into useful outputs that influence thinking, action and practice.
This is a part-time degree where expected submission is after 18 months and the maximum registration time is 24 months.
As a candidate for this award you will undertake a 30 – 45,000 words critique depending on the nature of the public works portfolio and present it to a viva panel.
With the successful completion of the examination you will achieve a doctorate and can be addressed with the title ‘Dr’.
You can enrol throughout the year at a time appropriate for you.
The application process involves a detailed statement on which you receive written and oral guidance and the submission of your public works for review by a specialist in your area of influence and expertise.
If the review is successful, an academic advisor is assigned to you at the start of your programme.
They will advise you on structure and how to meet the doctoral criteria of this award, and are available to you during your period on the programme.
An academic consultant who is a specialist in your area will also be nominated in consultation with you to engage with you on the specialist nature of your public works.
Delivery is through the advisor and consultant, the programme handbooks, the virtual learning environment and university learning resources.
Candidates are invited to all research seminars and events which are also recorded and posted up on the VLE.
In summary, the examination process is in two parts.
First, each examiner independently completes a preliminary report on the public works and context statement you have submitted.
Second, you give an oral presentation and discuss your submission of work with the examiners.
This is also known as a viva voce.
You must satisfy the examiners both in respect of the quality of your written submission and the quality of your engagement during the oral presentation in order to be awarded the degree.
This is a programme for individuals with substantial professional experience at a senior level who have, through public works, made considerable impact on their profession, on practice and on knowledge.
This impact has to be evidenced.
In addition, you would normally hold a Masters degree or equivalent in terms of enquiry and project experience.
On this programme, it is possible to claim doctoral level credits for work you have already done that has had an impact on thinking and practice.
120 credits out of 360 credits can be claimed which reduces the completion time by up to a year.
Please read the following guidance and requirements to apply for a place on the DProf by Public Works programme.
In order for the team to review your suitability please send a detailed CV which includes mention of your public works.
You will then have the opportunity to have a telephone briefing with the DProf by Public Works Programme Leader to discuss the nature of the programme with you and together you can decide whether it is likely to be an appropriate programme for you and how many public works to submit for review in your application.
Your application will be reviewed by the DProf by Public Works Programme Leader and a reviewer with expertise in your field.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/doctor-of-business-administration-dba:
The DBA is designed to raise the level of professional capabilities of practising senior managers and executives
The DBA develops critical reflective practice skills, by developing advanced research skills applicable in leading-edge areas of business, and by providing the opportunity to develop a rigorous doctoral research project focussed on your role as industry leader and change-maker.
Our DBA is designed for active senior managers and executives in any organisation - public, private, third sector or consultancies who want to gain new insights and perspectives into organisational and industry leadership and management based on critical exploration of their own evolving professional practice.
A key role is played by the capstone research project, which enables you to bring about evidence-based changes and to introduce new perspectives to your professional practice, or to your organisation or sector.
Project Scenario 1 - Leading Organisational Change
You are in a change leadership position within an organisation either as a manager or as an external consultant.
You are undertaking a project, based on empirical research and choosing from a range of methodologies, that will result in a change that typically solves an organisational problem or leads to an improvement for the organisation.
An evaluation of the impact of the project is usually expected.
Example: Changing the leadership culture of an organisation to improve innovation.
The organisation was facing challenges in adapting to rapid market changes due to a rigid hierarchical structure and resistance to change.
The DBA researcher investigated the impact of leadership styles on organisational agility and employee engagement during transformation initiatives.
Project Scenario 2 - Creating an artefact, a product, or a service
You are a professional with proven experience in a particular sector, either embedded in an organisation or working independently as a consultant, and you are undertaking DBA research to create an artefact, product or service that is considered innovative in your context and has market potential.
Example: A logistics director at a medium-sized transport company undertook a DBA research project to create an innovative digital platform to improve supply chain efficiency, using AI and IoT technologies to improve routing and reduce costs.
This solution was innovative and viewed as effective in the context of that company.
Project Scenario 3 - Policy and Industry analysis
You are a professional with proven experience in a particular industry, either embedded in an organisation or working independently as a consultant, and you are undertaking DBA research to provide new insights or a fresh analysis of an industry issue.
Your novel recommendations would benefit a range of stakeholders in your context.
Example: A senior financial analyst conducts DBA research on how evolving environmental, social and governance (ESG) regulations influence corporate investment decisions.
The researcher wanted to assess how regulatory changes have affected the risk assessment and investment decisions of companies in a particular sector.
The recommendations have practical applications for multiple companies in the industry.
The course is divided into three main stages: the first and second last for a minimum of 9 month each, and the third continues for a minimum of 30 months.
In the first stage you will be engaging in dialogue with supervisors, in a process of critical reflection of your professional practice and of your context, both of your organisation and of your industry.
In a parallel way, you will be introduced to research design, methodologies and theories, which you will continue to hone in stage two.
(9 months) you will discuss with a panel a 5000-word critical reflection of your practice and your context that engages with relevant literature and theories.
In the second stage, you will gain a more advanced understanding of the methodologies that you can bring to study your professional practice and context and you will design a research proposal, solidly grounded in the academic, professional and methodological literature.
(18 months) you will discuss with a panel your 10,000 words research proposal, which will include a process of collection of empirical data or a cycle of product development.
(Note: you can exit the programme with an MProf,  a research award at Master’s level, by undertaking review stage 1 at 9 months and review stage 2 at 12 months)
You undertake a major research project that is current to your organisation or your sector and that has identifiable practical applications and impact.
Your final thesis will be 65-80,000 words long.
If you present an artefact, the critical commentary for it will be 35-40,000 words long.
This stage with the submission of your doctoral project and with a viva examination with a panel that will include examiners external to the University.
This panel will decide on the awarding of the doctorate.
Throughout the course, which is studied part-time, your focus will be on your professional activity in an organisational or industry context.
The DBA provides a structured framework for critically understanding your professional activity, and equips you to operate as a reflective professional practitioner.
The research project provides an opportunity for you to critically evaluate the learning you achieve while leading significant change in the workplace, and to express this in writing in a systematic way that is both informed by and informs relevant theory.
The Middlesex DBA recognises that professional practice is grounded in real organisations, in which the context is often interdisciplinary, and that practitioners taking the course will often belong to specific professional bodies.
In order to recognise and harness the subject- and profession-specific nature of practitioners' individual practice, those taking the DBA will be encouraged to build learning relationships with other candidates working in similar spheres of activity.
Specialist subject and professional advice will be available from expert and highly experienced staff within the Business School, especially in the following areas:
To register your interest for this course, please get in touch with Professor Paul Gooderham .
The course requires attendance in person once a term, three times per year, for residential sessions or tutorials (depending on whether you are part of a cohort or undertaking it individually).
Aside from the on-campus sessions, access to the supervisory team can be online.
You will have access to the University Researcher Development Programme and the full stack of library digital and physical resources.
The final viva would usually take place in person.
Overall, the mode of delivery of the programme can be described as hybrid.
This means that there is no need for overseas students to acquire a student visa, because a full-time residence in the UK is not required for study on the programme, but ability to travel to campus for the quarterly sessions (three per academic year) is essential.
In addition to being able to draw on the expertise of tutors, a possible specialist consultant, and other participants in your cohort, you will also have the support of a dedicated academic advisor throughout your period of study with us.
We normally require a masters degree or above.
You should also have a minimum of five years managerial or professional experience in a full-time senior position.
To find out more about the qualifications we accept from your country please visit the relevant Support in your country page.
If you are unsure about the suitability of your qualifications or would like help with your application, please contact your nearest Regional office for support.
Please see our visas page for further information.
International students who require a Student route (formerly tier 4) visa to progress on a course at Middlesex University must apply for study on a full-time basis.
International applicants can apply for Student route (formerly tier 4) visas for part-time postgraduate study (courses leading to a qualification at RQF level 7 or SCQF level 11 and above).
Applicants should download an application form and a letter of application for the DBA programme from our research applications page.
The two application documents will be downloaded in a single Word file.
Please complete them and email to them to us with the following supporting documents:
You will be required to interview for this course.
Part-time: £6,400 per year
Part-time: £9,050 per year
UK Fees: The university reserves the right to increase undergraduate tuition fees in line with changes to legislation, regulation and any government guidance or decisions.
International Students.
Tuition fees are subject to annual review and we reserve the right to increase the fees each academic year by no more than the level of inflation.
For more information and to answer your frequently asked questions, please visit our postgraduate funding page .

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/research-degrees/doctor-of-business-administration-dba-healthcare-leadership:
The DBA Healthcare Leadership is for senior leaders in the NHS and healthcare organisations who can influence practice and policy, and/or, lead meaningful change in their organisations through research which they conduct.
Live practice- based research leading to organisation or systemic change, or problem-based research that will inform policy or practice is required.
The DBA equips you with the knowledge and skills to undertake research in your organisation/NHS context that is competent and robust addressing the strategic issues or wicked problems defined and through your research project make a real difference to the problem at hand.
DBA Healthcare Leadership programme will support your studies by:
The course is divided into three main stages: the first and the second last for nine months each, and the third continues for a minimum of 30 months.
Stage One Review (9 months): You write and present to a panel for a discussion a 5,000 word critically reflective review of your work context, the project problem area and relevant literature drawn principally from the discipline of business and management.
Stage Two Review (18 months): You write and present to a panel a 10,000 word research project proposal that will address your problem/chosen field of study, along with details of your research approach and methods.
In the third stage you progress and complete your research project, culminating in the presentation of a thesis, word count circa 60,000 to a panel.
The formal discussion at this stage is known as the VIVA.
Here your work will be assessed by an External and Internal examiner and the decision will made be made regarding the award of doctorate.
Candidates may withdraw from the doctoral process at stage two and be examined for the award of MProf where appropriate.
During stages one and two workshops either face to face or on-line will be provided to support your understanding and application of research methods.
Other workshops will help inform you of what it means to be a reflective practitioner or how to draw on relevant literature in the field.
The Middlesex DBA in Healthcare Leadership understands that your research is grounded in your organisation and professional practice context and thus is likely to be somewhat interdisciplinary in nature.
Therefore, relevant literature and source material across disciplines will most likely be applicable.
Each candidate will be allocated a Supervisory team of academic advisors, with a specialist Business School academic appointed as your Director of Studies:
Specialist subject knowledge and Supervisory support from Business School academics is typically available in areas of:
Leadership and Strategy, and Human Resource Development & Change Management, including Executive Coaching; and other Business School disciplines such as: Economics, Accounting and Finance and Marketing.
If appropriate, a second supervisor or advisor may be appointed from the Faculty of Health and Education.
UK students are eligible to apply for this course, however international students are not eligible as candidates will already be in senior roles in the NHS or with other healthcare providers.
Entry onto this degree requires an interview.
To find out more about the qualifications we accept from your country please visit the relevant Support in your country page .
Please see our Visas and immigration page for further information.
Changes to the Immigration Rules introduced in January 2018 now allows international applicants to apply for Student route (formerly tier 4) visas for part-time postgraduate study (courses leading to a qualification at RQF level 7 or SCQF level 11 and above).
If you don't meet our minimum English language requirements, we offer an intensive Pre-sessional English course .
Entry onto this course requires an interview.
Applicants should download an application form and a letter of application for the DBA programme from our research applications page .
Please complete them and email to professionals@mdx.ac.uk , together with the following supporting documents:
Part-time students: £7,450 per year
Part-time students: £10,000 per year
Candidates will already be in senior roles in the NHS or with other healthcare providers.
Senior Leadership and Board level positions may open up following successful completion of this programme.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/research-degrees/visiting-research-students:
Students currently registered/enrolled on a PhD programme at other institutions can apply to study at Middlesex University as a visiting research student.
You can apply to visit Middlesex University for between 1 month and 12 months.
During this period, you will be undertaking research which is complementary to your own PhD project at your home university.
Visiting students are advised to check that the relevant school/department has academic expertise in the field of your research.
Information on individual schools and staff members is available on our website.
Visiting Research Students will not receive a certificate and are not entitled for any qualification from Middlesex University.
Please download an application form from our online portal .
Applicants are recommended to submit the following documents along with their application:
If you have any queries, please email the Research department ( research.adm@mdx.ac.uk ) or call +44 (0) 208 411 5555 .
However for Visiting Scholar applicants, they may start at any time of the year.
We encourage you to submit your application as early as possible so that your proposal can be reviewed in good time.
We recommend that you submit your application no later than two months ahead of your intended start date.
If there is any supporting documents missing or pending, your application will be considered incomplete and this may delay your admissions process.
As part of your application, you will need to provide a research proposal.
In this, you will identify the area of research that interests you.
You will also need to prove that you can develop a way of studying and make an original contribution, bearing in mind that a research degree can take up to seven years to complete.
If you are an overseas student, you may be required to book a credibility interview which will help prepare you for the visa application process.
Please see our visa advice page for more information on the Visa Process.
Visiting period between 1 month and 6 months: £500 fixed fee
Visiting period between 6 months and 12 months: £1000 fixed fee

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/postgraduate-offer-holders/postgraduate-fees-and-finance:
Postgraduate study is a financial investment.
It is vital that you check what funding is available and apply for it as soon as you can.
There are consequences of late payment of fees so we recommend that you arrange your finances before you start with us
There are a number of different ways to pay.
Please read the information below carefully to find the service that is right for you.
In accordance with the UK Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Act, the university is unable to accept payments originating from sanctioned countries (Iran, North Korea, Cuba and the Crimea, Luhansk and Donetsk Provinces of Ukraine, Syria, Afghanistan, Venezuela, Russia and Belarus).
Please do not attempt to make a payment from a sanctioned country using the Convera platform or any other MDX online services.
Middlesex University has partnered with Convera to provide you with the ability to pay by Bank transfer.
Your parents or Sponsors can make a bank transfer via our partner Convera.
They provide a secure, fast payment service so that you can pay your fees in your local currency and from your home bank account without worrying about paying exchange rates or bank charges.
Read our user guide on MyMDX .
Pay via Convera
The Student Account Centre is the best way to pay fees and charges, however if you are unable to do so we also have an automated telephone payment system available 24/7.
Call +44 (0)20 8411 6400 and select option 1.
Please note that you can only pay by telephone for current or future year charges.
All payments relating to prior year debts will be validated prior to processing.
This means that we are unable to accept telephone payments for prior debts.
Debts will not be considered as paid until the University has received cleared funds.
The clearing period is usually two weeks.
Call Automated Telephone Payment Service
To find out more about our payment methods, please visit the Payment methods page.
If your financial circumstances change and you are unable to meet your payment deadline, please contact our Student Welfare Advice Team at the earliest opportunity.
They can give support and advice on, for example, sources of funding available.
You can contact the team by booking an appointment or raising a query through the UniHelp team.
We will assist where we can, however the quality of teaching is dependent upon funding and this is why the University must act to recover all outstanding debts.
If you are requesting to pay your fees outside of a standard instalment plan or payment deadline, you will be asked to provide documentary evidence to support your request before it can be considered.
Please have this information to hand when contacting our Student Welfare team.
If you fail to pay your tuition fees or provide confirmation of sponsorship, you will be deregistered (i.e.
you will be withdrawn from the university) at the end of learning week four and the option to pay via an instalment plan will no longer be available.
If you have been deregistered, you must pay the annual tuition fee in full plus a late payment charge of £200 in order to be reinstated.
You will also not be permitted to reenrol until your tuition fees have been paid.
However, as you are not enrolled, you will be unable to access your student loan and so cannot use it to pay off any old debts.
Failing to pay the second or any subsequent payment instalments within one month of their due date, will also result in deregistration.
If you have a tuition fee debt that becomes overdue, restrictions will be applied to your student account automatically.
Restrictions may prevent you from re-enrolling, graduating or receiving your final transcript.
If you have outstanding tuition fee debts from a previous academic year, you will not be permitted to re-enrol.
All tuition fee debts must be paid in full before you can return to undertake another year of study.
If you are self-financing your degree and have already completed an undergraduate degree at Middlesex University, you may be entitled to a 20% alumni discount.
There is no separate application process to activate your discount-simply highlight that you are an alumni of Middlesex when applying for your course to ensure the bursary is applied.
If an employer or organisation is paying your tuition fees, you will need to provide evidence of this in writing in line with the payment deadlines.
Please submit the following information on a purchase order or letter on official letter-headed paper to the Student Fees and Finance team via UniHelp .
We do not accept sponsor letters from UK public sectors organisations without a valid Purchase Order number quoted.
We reserve the right to reject sponsorship purchase orders or letters if they are not original documents, do not contain the correct information, or if they are found not to be issued by a recognisable third party organisation.
All invoices issued by Middlesex University must be settled in full within 30 days.
If invoices are not paid in accordance with these terms the debt will revert to you as the student.
Please note that if your fees are being paid by a relative, friend or a government funding body (e.g.
Student Finance England), this is not considered as a formal sponsorship by the University.
In this instance, you will be regarded as self-financing.
If you would like to explore alternative funding options, please visit our postgraduate finance page .
An instalment plan gives you the opportunity to spread the cost of your tuition fees in instalments instead of paying your fees in full by the payment deadline.
If you have already gained a postgraduate loan then the following instalment plan will be available to you:
If you are a self-financing student and you're unable to pay the full tuition fee at the start of the year, then the following instalment plans are available to you.
If your annual fees are greater than £1,500, you will be able to pay your fees in eight instalments from September to April.
As a postgraduate student, you have the option to request a three-part instalment plan that may more closely resemble your postgraduate loan instalments.
To do so you will need to follow the instructions below on signing up for an instalment plan.
To pay by instalment, you will need to request an instalment plan here .
Once we approved your instalment plan, we will invite you to submit your credit or debit card details on MyMDX.
Once you have submitted your card details, the University will automatically deduct the relevant payment from your card on the respective dates mentioned above.
Our Welfare team can offer financial guidance and advice.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-stories/angel:
I applied to another university, but unfortunately, I didn't get the grades to go into that uni.
When I didn't get the grades to get into my first option, I literally cried so bad.
My mum cried, my brother cried, we were all crying together because they just knew how much effort I had put in.
Then my friend recommended Middlesex, because she went to the Open day.
She said “trust me Angel, you're going to love this uni.” So, I did some research – I knew I wanted a university that was diverse and I could channel my mind creatively - and then I applied to Middlesex through Clearing, I did it all online.
It was very quick process.
I think it took maybe in the span of one week and it was like I applied.
I've been accepted and I was filling out forms and I was ready to go.
In the span of a week.
When I first started university, my teachers were very supportive.
They helped me create a timed schedule so I could follow along the process very easily.
And they were very just considerate when sometimes I needed more help, because it's a lot different compared to college.
They were very understanding and they are so nurturing.
Chat to a student
My name is Angel and I study fashion marketing.
So I applied to another university, but unfortunately I didn't get the grades to go to that uni.
And then my friend recommended this one.
She's like, "Trust me, Angel, you're going to love this uni."
When I applied to Middlesex through Clearing, I did it all online.
It was a very quick process.
I think it took maybe in the span of one week and it was like I applied, I've been accepted and I was filling out forms and I was ready to go.
And when choosing my uni, I definitely needed like some type of like diversity, like a connection there.
I was surprised by how many societies they have, how many events they have going on, on campus.
They have something going on every single day, like university at Middlesex is never boring.
I would say fun, creative and very nurturing.
My teacher always finds like fun ways to keep it entertaining and and it just gets my creativity to be like kind of like flowing.
It's a lot different compared to college and they were very understanding and they were very nurturing.
My teacher from fashion marketing in the first like term, she recommended that we go to the Fashion Awards.So everyone from my course literally got dressed up, we took pictures.It was just such a fun day.
We went to art galleries, exhibits, we went to we were walking around central and just visiting like the shops, like Burberry, Bape, Vivienne Westwood and like the manager of the store were talking to us about how they market things and how they decide to put things on the front lines and everything.
I'm excited for second year to apply to an internship and I know Middlesex has different connections like abroad.
I think they have one in Mauritius, in Dubai.
I feel like everything happens for a reason, and I'm definitely glad I didn't get the grades now.
Middlesex has one campus that all flows.
So, I applied to Middlesex, it was a lot more local and like easier to get to - and I had great transport links.
I missed the main applicant window, so I started looking for places in Clearing and looking for courses that would allow me to do a degree that combines engineering with human-like empathy and design.
Learn more about students journeys through Clearing.
Find your place at Middlesex: apply through Clearing from 5 July.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-stories/toney:
I took a gap year after college, and then I started having to figure things out to do.
And I chose Product Design at Middlesex.
The factors important to me were location and type of course.
Most important thing for me was a course that had the technical aspects but also a focus on the end user, because web design without the end user, it's not really that useful.
When applying to Middlesex through Clearing it was actually very easy.
I think it was so easy that I didn't even realise I had done everything.
I went through the website, I filled in my details and was accepted.
Then I got a letter from the post, saying congratulations.
And that was it, I was off.
I wouldn’t change a thing.
Everything has been great.
From how supportive the lecturers are, all the facilities that I have access to, the amount of help I get, as well as, the student ambassadors scheme and everyone I've met along the way.
Everything has been great and surprising in the best of ways.
Chat with a student
My name is Toney and I study product design.
Why did you apply through Clearing?
So I took a gap year after college because of COVID and then once COVID ended, I started having to figure things out to do.
I missed the main applicant window.
So I started looking for places through Clearing and looking for courses that would allow me to do a degree that combines engineering with human-like empathy and design.
Why did you choose Middlesex?
I factored in things like location and the course itself.
But I wanted a course that really heavily pushed user experience.
How was the Clearing process?
It was actually very easy.
I went through the website, I filled in my details and one by one.
They said “yep, you’ve been accepted” and that was kind of it.
And then I got a letter through the post like a week or two later saying “congratulations”.
And that was that was it, I was off then.
What do you love about Middlesex?
From how supportive the lecturers are to all the facilities I have access to, to the amount of help I get, as well as the student ambassadors scheme and the SLA scheme and everyone I’ve met along the way.
Everything has just been, like, surprisingly great.
Describe your first year?
Nerve-wracking because I didn’t really know what to expect going in.
Fun, because a lot of the stuff we did was in the workshop, and quirky because a lot of the projects we had were very different.
Your proudest moment?
I’ve managed to design products that I’ve helped, like intensive care units, and won awards and medals and all kinds of things at Middlesex.
So how proud I am of what I’ve achieved here is just overwhelming.
I knew I wanted a university that was diverse and I could channel my mind creatively - and then I applied to Middlesex through Clearing, I did it all online.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-stories/matt:
I ended up applying through Clearing because I did not get the results I expected.
I remember opening them on results day, and it was just a bit disappointing, but my family encouraged me to look for the next step, and I started to research different unis around London.
I came across Middlesex, and judging from the website and course content, I saw it as one of my top options.
What mattered to me when I was choosing my university was reputation, somewhere that would give me a good chance of future success, and being local to me.
The process of applying to Middlesex was easy.
I just went on the website and answered a few simple questions.
On the first day, that's when I felt like, you know, I've made the right decision.
It felt like exactly where I needed to be.
I've met a lot of great people and made great friends here.
My academics were very helpful; I really appreciated that it was easy to contact them if I had any questions.
One thing I didn't expect was the opportunity to go on trips as a part of the course.
Recently, I went on a three-day trip where we visited places like Bournemouth Beach to look for fossils.
We also visited the Eden Project, one of the largest greenhouses in the world.
I'm proud of myself for overcoming the little struggles that I faced.
And now I've come to a point where I'm quite hopeful for the next two years.
My top tips if you are thinking of changing your university after you get your results are:
It's your life, you can change your mind - chat with a current student for an insider view of life at Middlesex.
My name's Matthew and I study pharmaceutical chemistry.
I ended up applying through clearing because I did not get the results I expected.
Um, yeah, I remember opening them on the on the results day and it was just it was just a bit disappointing.
You know, my family really encouraged me to um just to look for the next step.
I just went straight to researching for different unis around London.
What mattered to me when I was choosing my university was reputation, somewhere that would give me a good chance of future success and also the aspect of being local to me.
You know, I came across Middlesex and you know, judging from the the website and the course content, I saw it as one of my top options.
The process of applying to Middlesex was actually quite easy.
I just went on their website, just asked me very simple questions and yeah, that was basically it.
It just felt like exactly where I needed to be.
A lot of great people and I've made great friends here, but it's also been a bit stressful because in university, you know, you have to be very um self-motivated and self-driven and it's not like school.
Um, so it took me a while to adjust to that.
My academics were very helpful.
I really appreciated that.
It was easy to contact them if you had any questions.
One thing I didn't expect is the opportunity to go on trips as a part of the course.
Just recently I went on a three-day trip and we visited places like Charmouth Beach where we got to look for fossils.
Um, we also visited the Eden Project, one of the largest greenhouses in the world.
I'm proud of myself for like overcoming the little struggles that I faced and you know, I've come to a point where I'm quite hopeful for the next two years.
Duha shares her story and her top tips for Clearing.
Angel shares her Clearing story, she didn't get the grades she had hoped for and didn't get a place at the university she had an offer with.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-stories/abbi:
I applied to a university that was about an hour and a half away.
I did get into that uni, but then over summer, during my A-levels, I started to panic about the distance.
And I didn't think it was right for me.
I didn't want a city campus where it's dotted around everywhere, Middlesex has one campus that all flows.
The thing that mattered most when choosing uni was the location and the equipment.
I wanted to be able to get home easily and the equipment was really important to me because of the career I want to go into, it needs to be industry standard so I can be set up for a career in the future.
I was quite nervous about the Clearing process because there's only a limited number of spaces and a lot of them are already filled from people who had already chosen to go there.
But the process of clearing itself once I'd figured out what I was doing was actually quite stress free and everything was very clearly explained.
I just had to decline my other applications on UCAS and then just reapply through clearing, it was easy.
Middlesex has exceeded all my expectations, the technicians have really supported me in my first year at university because of they're always there and you can come to them with any question or problem and they can fix it.
And also, you don't have to feel embarrassed about not knowing things because everyone starts at a different place and they make it really easy.
My name is Abbi Tompkins and I'm studying photography.
Why did you choose Clearing?
I applied to a university that was about an hour and a half away, and I did get into that uni.
But then over summer, during my A-levels, I started to panic about the distance.
Didn't feel right for me.
So, I ended up applying to Middlesex because it was a lot more local and it was a lot more like easier to get to and had great transport links.
The process was very easy and everything was like very clearly explained.
I just had to decline my other applications on UCAS and then just reapply through Clearing, and it was really stress free to be honest.
Equipment was really important to me because of the career I want to go into.
It needs to be like industry standards.
I really like how it was like open and everything just kind of flows.
Like I didn't want a city campus where it's like dotted around everywhere.
Eye opening because it's really opened up, like what my potential was as a person and what I can achieve because I've done so many things I never thought I would.
And exciting because I can't wait to see, like where it will take me next and what I'll do with my photography.
What support did you find at Middlesex?
The technicians have really supported me in my first year at university because of like, they're always there and you can come to them with any question or problem and they can fix it.
What cool opportunities did you have?
The one thing that surprised me was the opportunities that Middlesex have to offer.
Um, I applied for a trip to Mauritius and that's something I never thought I'd be able to access just through going to university.
One of the amazing opportunities outside of my course was sports.
Being able to apply for Judo, it's something I quit when I was younger, and I found I've really rediscovered my passion.
Anything you would change?
I don't think I'd change anything.
The only thing I'd change is my, like, getting on top of my work, which I felt behind a little bit.
But in terms of the university, I think it was amazing and it's how it turned out a lot better than I expected as well.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-stories/duha:
When I didn’t receive the grades I wanted on results day, I was disappointed and nervous about my next step.
I was very nervous when I went through Clearing, obviously, because it's a process I haven't been through before.
When I called up Middlesex, they made me feel very comfortable, very safe, and they made me feel very calm about the process.
They explained to me everything that I was going to go through, and what was going to happen.
They assured me that they would give me all the support and help I needed, and then I just felt really reassured.
I then felt very calm, and I was actually feeling really excited to go through the process.
Clearing gave me the time to research the university that was best for me and my course and I am so happy that I found Middlesex.
I never expected to come to Middlesex, but I feel like now that I'm here, I wouldn't change a thing.
My top-tips if you are researching Clearing and where you might apply to are:
My name is Duha and I'm currently in my second year studying for a Bachelor's degree in Computer Science.
I got to college and I opened my results.
I then realized that, you know, I didn't get the grades that I needed.
And ultimately I did feel very disappointed.
I felt um very upset, but when I then chose to go through the clearing process, I felt a bit more relieved.
So I chose to apply to Middlesex because Middlesex was a top choice for computer science.
So we get really um hands-on experience uh dealing with real-life projects and situations that will benefit us in the real world.
Also when it comes to financial help, they provide you with a lot of job opportunities that you can get involved in on campus.
When I called up Middlesex at the admissions office, they made me feel very comfortable, very safe, and they made me feel very calm about the process.
They explained everything to me that I was going to go through, um and what was going to happen.
I felt nervous obviously because it was my first year and it was a big university, bigger than my college and I didn't know what to expect.
Um I felt very happy because um I was at a place where they really valued my work and really valued me um, you know, pushing further and doing the best that I can do.
And I felt very content because I felt like this was the right place for me.
The location of the campus um is very convenient to travel to from my house.
It's surrounded by local restaurants, they have student discounts and it's also surrounded by greenery.
One of the opportunities that MDX has provided me that really helped boost my career was their help with my CV and providing me with all the networking events I needed.
So one thing that makes me really proud of my time at Middlesex is empowering and guiding young women specifically um to be in tech through content creation such as this, social media, TikTok, Instagram.
I feel like everything planned and worked out the way that I needed it to work out.
Applying through Clearing was a last-minute decision for me.
I previously chose Engineering because I thought I was sure about what I wanted to do.
But then I changed my mind.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-stories/peace:
But then I changed my mind to marketing because I became more interested in social media and I wanted to work in that industry in the future.
Before I made the first call with a Clearing Advisor, I was really nervous and unsure and didn’t know what to expect.
Once I called them they were really friendly, made it all really simple and they knew what they were doing, and that made me feel really secure in my choice.
There are so many reasons that people go into clearing, because you might not have got the grades you hoped, if you are unsure about what to study or change your mind and want to live somewhere else or stay closer to home.
I’ve learnt it is OK to change your mind – this is your life, and changing my mind was the best decision I have made!
My top tips if you are thinking of changing your course in clearing are:
Hello, my name is Peace and I applied through Clearing at Middlesex and I was also a Clearing advisor.
I am here to give you my top tips on applying through Clearing to make it a really positive experience.
So applying through Clearing was a last -minute decision for me.
I previously chose energy engineering because I thought I was sure about what I wanted to do, but then I changed my mind to marketing because I got more into social media and I just wanted to work in that industry in the future.
Before I made the first call with the Clearing advisor, I was very unsure and I didn't know what to expect, but once I called them, they were very friendly and they made it simple and they knew exactly what they were doing by asking me the right questions and that just made me feel very secure in my choice.
There are lots of reasons why people might want to apply through Clearing.
For instance, if you didn't get the right grade, if you were not sure about starting this year, but now you're thinking of starting this year, or if you're just like me and you change your mind, Clearing is also for you.
So my top tips for someone who wants to apply through Clearing are have your exam results ready, be prepared to talk about your experience and why you want to solve your chosen course.
Lastly, make sure you have a positive attitude and have positive things to say about yourself.
Once you get in touch with the Clearing advisor team at Middlesex, you will have a lot of personal advice about your different options to support or finalise your application.
And remember, there's no pressure.
We want you to make the right decision for you and your future.
Clearing opens in July and closes in October.
So as soon as you get your exam results, don't hesitate and apply as soon as possible.
And you can apply through calling us, messaging us via livechat on the website or through WhatsApp.
I wasn’t sure if I wanted to go to university, or not.
I decided not to apply when all my friends were.
I wasn’t sure if uni was right for me, or if I wanted to move away.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-stories/shareen:
When I got my grades, I thought well maybe I should just see what my options are.
I didn’t really know where to start, but I had signed up to get some Clearing information from a few universities, and one of them was Middlesex.
They made everything really clear, and I didn’t feel panicked that I had to rush.
I took my time and looked into the courses that I was interested in, and went along for a campus tour – I loved the uni the minute I stepped onto the campus.
I got to be in London, but it still felt spacious and I really liked that it was all on one campus.
For me, applying directly through Clearing was so simple.
I am glad that I didn’t put pressure on myself to follow the norm.
With the support on offer, I got all my questions answered and I felt really prepared for when I started the course.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/network-management-and-cloud-computing-msc:
Join our well-supported computer science course and gain the skills needed for a challenging and exciting career in the networking and telecommunications industry
This full and part-time course includes placement experience when possible.
If you have previously studied computing at university or who are currently working in the sector, and looking to develop an advanced knowledge of the subject, this course is for you.
We teach modules which are a combination of computer networks theory, management and security.
You'll also have the opportunity to work in a laboratory on security configuration for various systems.
You'll develop the knowledge and expertise to model, monitor and analyse networks in various situations, simulating performance and availability to configure them for optimum performance.
In addition to this, you will also improve your mathematical, problem-solving, communication, and critical skills.
As well as in-depth knowledge and practical experience of computer communications and networking, our course will provide you with many transferable skills.
It will improve your research, data collection and interpretation, mathematical, communication, problem-solving, presentation and critical skills, as well as your confidence and ability to work under your own initiative while managing your own time.
Other benefits you'll gain by joining us on this course include:
Industrial placement is offered as an optional opportunity for full-time students studying at the London campus.
This course is available with a professional placement year.
Learn how the professional experience year will help you enhance your career options and start your journey with us.
Graduates have gone onto work for companies such as IBM, L'Oreal, Hutchinson 3G, Halcrow Group and more
We are licensed to provide CNNA certification training and equipped with the latest industry-standard equipment
We've developed our own WSN, Senso LAB, and have also undertaken notable research in areas such as MIMO, LTE and LTE Advanced
This course gives you an in-depth understanding of computer network design, implementation and optimisation.
You'll study cloud-based networks and explore modern data centres, virtualisation and distributed storage.
Network design and construction, programming and operating systems as well as network troubleshooting in a business environment will also be covered.
We'll study network systems and services, computer networks, wireless and mobile communication systems, network management, security and disaster recovery, and web-based information systems management.
For your final dissertation you can work on a problem solving project of topical interest to you and of relevance to the industry.
This module therefore fully equips students to immediately obtain significant roles in industry as well as being able to pursue further study.
During this module you will develop a systematic understanding of the concepts, protocols and standards for computer networks and internetworking, used in current and future communication infrastructures.
It is vital in today's networking market that network managers, administrators and engineers have a critical insight and practical experience of the essential tools used for monitoring, managing and evaluating computer networks.
This module is designed to equip you with these problem solving and practical skills.
The purpose of this module is to provide you with a systematic understanding of the principles and practice of network security.
The aim is to address security issues, tools, technologies, algorithms and protocols, and best practices as demanded by the rapidly changing technology.
New developments in network security and systems have created new dimensions and platforms that demand looking into emerging computing technologies, especially security issues in the area of cloud computing, mobile and wireless technology.
The module intends to address current development in AI and Block Chain technology related to security applications.
This module is designed to equip students with the theory and practical knowledge in these three interconnected domains.
Through the exploration of Linux-based operating systems, hands-on network configuration, and proficiency in Python programming, you will develop the technical skills and problem-solving capabilities necessary to analyse, design, and implement effective system-level and networked solutions in real-world contexts.
This module is designed to develop your expertise in diagnosing and resolving network issues, enhancing performance, and investigating security incidents.
It covers systematic troubleshooting methodologies, core networking principles, and practical use of tools like Wireshark and Snort for network analysis and forensic investigations.
The module provides a comprehensive theoretical and hands-on exploration of troubleshooting complex enterprise networks while introducing advanced network concepts accessible to both networking specialists and non-specialists.
Emphasizing ethical practices, legal frameworks, and experiential learning, it prepares you for careers in network administration, cybersecurity, and digital forensics.
This is module covers the principles and foundations of network security.
It aims at providing students with security issues, technologies, algorithms and protocols used in securing computer networks and associated systems.
It will also provide an understanding of possible security breaches, security risk analysis and mechanisms to protect computer and network communication systems.
It also studies an in-depth review of commonly-used security mechanisms and techniques, security threats and network-based attacks.
This module is designed to equip you with a systematic understanding of the concepts and standards of network management, as well as the protocols and tools used in current and future communication infrastructures.
Additionally, the module delves into the application of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) in the field of Network Management.
It emphasizes leveraging these advanced technologies to optimize, automate, and enhance the efficiency, reliability, and security of network operations.
This module is designed to help you develop into a network manager or engineer with advanced problem solving and practical skills, and includes at least 24 hours of lab work.
It will provide you with a systematic understanding of the concepts and standards for network management, network management protocols and network management tools which are used in current and future communication infrastructures.
You will complete the module with critical insight and practical experience of the essential computer network management tools, as well as their development, operation, monitoring and assessment.
This module will provide you with a comprehensive understanding of the design, development and implementation of Operating Systems for Secure Environments, including embedded and IoT systems, and Mobile Communication systems and server-based systems.
This module will give you a comprehensive understanding of the design, development, and implementation of operating systems for secure environments.
This will include key mechanisms of Operating Systems and Security using both hardware and software components.
The module covers cloud fundamentals, including deployment models (public, private, hybrid) and service models (IaaS, PaaS, SaaS), while contrasting cloud computing with traditional IT infrastructures.
You will gain practical exposure to leading cloud platforms like Amazon AWS and Google Cloud Platform (GCP), and explore current trends such as hybrid cloud solutions and multi-cloud management tools.
Additionally, the module delves into virtualisation concepts, including server, storage, and network virtualisation, with a focus on hypervisors, containerisation technologies like Docker and Kubernetes, and the role of infrastructure automation with Terraform.
Key topics also include Big Data management with Hadoop and HDFS, and cloud security practices for securing cloud environments, ensuring you are equipped with the skills to manage and optimise complex cloud infrastructures efficiently and securely.
This module involves an independent piece of work shaped largely by one’s own decisions and preferences to accomplish and to deliver via prescribed stages.
The module aims to facilitate your understanding of designing, planning and conducting applied research.
You'll be encouraged to apply and test theory and to contribute to applications, through enhancing your ability to handle data for problem solving and evaluation; to test theory using analysis and simulations, integrating the learning from other modules.
You must demonstrate an understanding of the legal, social, ethical and professional issues in the context of computer and communications engineering and networking, and comply with appropriate professional code of conduct, recognising your obligation to society and your profession.
This module is an independent piece of work shaped largely by one’s own decisions and preferences to accomplish and deliver a task via prescribed stages.
The module aims to facilitate students’ understanding of designing, planning and conducting applied research.
The module encourages students to apply and test theory and to contribute to applications, through enhancing students’ ability to handle data for problem solving and evaluation; to test theory using analysis and simulations, integrating the learning from other modules.
This module will equip you with the tools and techniques necessary to design and implement effective and efficient experiments in the context of computer science projects.
It will also provide you with the skills required for statistical analysis, hypothesis testing, and presenting results within the scope of computational research and data-driven studies.
The primary aim of this module is to develop your employability skills and support their search for a placement.
The module will include communication, team working, negotiation and problem-solving skills development as well as practical workshops on selection methods, CV's, cover letters, interview preparation and techniques.
The module will also introduce you to other methods that will include aptitude test and assessment centres.
The objective of this module is to offer you a three-month (12-week) work placement that is directly applicable to your studies, encouraging you to engage in critical reflection on your learning through hands-on experience.
Additionally, it seeks to develop your intellectual and interpersonal abilities, thereby deepening your critical comprehension of real-world applications.
The objective of this module is to offer you an extended (minimum 36 weeks) work placement that is directly applicable to your studies, encouraging you to engage in critical reflection on your learning through hands-on experience.
To find out more about this course, please download the Network management and cloud computing MSc programme specification (PDF).
As well as developing your practical skills in laboratory sessions, you’ll attend lectures, seminars, workshops and tutorials, where you’ll deepen your theoretical knowledge, work on activities and case studies, and develop your analytical and problem-solving skills.
You'll carry out research, produce written reports, give presentations and take part in group discussions and group work, supplementing all this with your own independent study.
On-campus
FT (12) PT (6)
Online
6
FT (28) PT (14)
For placement, it is FT 3 months (15 months programme) or minimum of 36 weeks (24 months programme).
Online learning: This is teaching that is delivered online using tools like Skype or Zoom, as well as work that you do yourself using online teaching resources.
Assessment methods will include exams, test and your independent research project.
You'll also be assessed through practical assignments, including laboratory work, and coursework including essays, reports, presentations and class discussions.
Some assessed work will also be group work.
For your independent project, you'll plan, conduct and produce an original piece of research relevant to the industry, either using existing or emerging technology to solve a practical problem.
You may also approach it by extending the theoretical understanding of new technology.
You'll be assessed on your research proposal and written report and take part in an oral examination.
Network management covers a wide area including performance reliability, security, fault, accounting and configuration management.
This master's programme has been developed to meet the growing needs of a rapidly evolving sector of industry.
You'll leave this course perfectly placed for a role as a training specialist, systems dispenser, business analysis manager or university lecturer.
Many of our graduates have gone straight into employment in the networking and communications industry and are working in programming, telecommunications engineering or network management.
There are also a wide range of other opportunities open to you in the public, private and not-for-profit sectors— everything from industry and consultancy to academia and further research.
You could even start your own business.
Our university's postgraduate courses have been recognised for their ability to support your career.
We are a top 10 UK University for employability (UniCompare Rankings 2025), and a top 10 UK university for industry connections and funding in Times Higher Education Young University Rankings 2024.
Our graduates have gone on to achieve many successes since leaving Middlesex many have gone on to work for companies such as:
Graduates will be equipped to pursue roles such as Cloud Architect, Networking Manager, Cloud Infrastructure Developer, Network Strategist, and Future Networks Designer.
For those wishing to do further study, doctoral research in new technologies such as Connected and Autonomous Vehicles, 6G and Quantum Computing would be great topics to pursue.
The fees below refer to the 2025/26 academic year.
1 Course fees are subject to annual inflation so the total costs for part-time study are shown here as a guide
International 2
2 Course fees are subject to annual inflation so the total costs for part-time study are shown here as a guide
Additional course costs
There are no additional costs.
Check out our guide to student life on a budget and find out more about postgraduate funding .

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/january-starts:
Explore undergraduate and postgraduate courses starting in January 2026.
With flexible study options, these courses are designed to fit around your schedule.
Start your degree outside the traditional academic year with our range of January start dates, a flexible alternative to pursue your academic and career goals.
At Middlesex, we believe that education should be accessible to everyone.
That’s why we offer a variety of scholarships and awards, including our Excellence Scholarship worth £2,000 per year.
You may also be eligible for a postgraduate loan of up to £12,167, ensuring that financial barriers don’t stand in the way of your success.
You’ll benefit from our strong connections to top employers such as HSBC, Deloitte, Google, Apple, Amazon, ASOS, and Nike.
We are ranked 8th in the UK for employability and 2nd for course quality (UniCompare, 2025), putting you in a great position to succeed as you graduate and enter the job market.
Our courses are designed to fit your lifestyle, allowing you to balance education with other commitments.
We’re ranked 1st in the UK for part-time postgraduate satisfaction (PTES, 2024), offering a mix of blended and online study options, dedicated campus days, and paid work placements through Unitemps.
With this flexibility and support, you’ll be fully equipped to achieve your goals.
Whether you've started a course elsewhere and realised it's not for you, wanted to take few months out, or had a change of plans or circumstances, starting a course in January could be the perfect option for you.
You’ll study the same course as students who began in September.
By the start of the second year (if your course has one), you’ll have caught-up with them, and will finish your degree alongside your new peers.
The new year is the perfect time to reflect on your personal and career goals.
If you’re thinking of a career change or progression, beginning a course in January could be a great new year's resolution.
Our range of part-time courses starting in January, many of which are professionally accredited, are designed to fit around your schedule.
This can make them the perfect option if you want to continue working, or have other personal commitments.
Want to gain new skills to progress, but don't want to wait for September to come around again?
Starting a course in January means you won't have to.
No, the quality of education remains the same.
You’ll have access to the same facilities, resources, and support as September starters, ensuring you receive a high-quality academic experience.
Yes, we welcome international students for the January intake.
We advise international applicants to apply as early as possible to allow time for visa processing and other logistics.
Application deadlines vary by course, but we recommend applying as soon as possible to secure your place, as courses will close when at capacity.
You can apply online via our application portal .
If you need help, our admissions team is available to guide you through the process and answer any questions.
Our Living Costs Fund has made extra money available to help you if you face financial hardship.
We also have a range of scholarships and awards , including our Excellence Scholarship worth £2000 per year.
UK-based students can apply for a postgraduate loan of up to £12,471.
Middlesex alumni can get exclusive discounts of 20% on postgraduate courses and 40% on the MBA.
If you have further questions or wish to discuss your options further, there are various ways in which you can contact us.
International students can also contact their nearest international office

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/short-courses-and-cpd/clinical-supervision:
2024-25 Year of entry
This one-day training aims to provide an opportunity for participants to explore the knowledge and practice the skills required to perform the role of supervisor in the context of their professional practice.
It will be of interest to staff from primary care-based practitioners, mental health and social care professionals working in inpatient and community settings.
Clinical supervision has been an aspect of health and social care practice in various forms for several years; however, it remains challenging to ensure its widespread implementation across provider organisations.
There is an increasingly evident need for formalised support in health and social care practice settings, so it is important to improve the quality of clinical supervision in these settings.
By the end of the session, participants should be able to:
Develop and practice skills required to carry out effective Supervision.
Study mode: Synchronous online delivery via virtual classroom using one of the following web-based learning and teaching platforms (e.g.
MS teams, Kaltura new row, Adobe connect, Zoom).
The content on the day will be delivered via a mixture of PowerPoint presentation, small group exercise and discussion, group feedback and recap/quiz.
To apply for this course, please email our NHS study days team .

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/short-courses-and-cpd/concordance-approach-medication-management-and-preventing-relapse:
This one-day training aims to explore an individual approach in achieving concordance with a person experiencing mental health problems and to look at the key concerns and attitudes towards their illness, treatment in general and their self-management skills.
It is also for you to reflect and consider your own experience, about your adherence to treatment.
The training will be of interest to anyone with a special interest in medication management, students on any health programmes, community-based practitioners, mental health professionals working in inpatient and community setting with service users.
Effective use of medicines is an important part of self-management of chronic conditions.
However, many people do not take their medicines.
It is estimated that only half of people with chronic conditions adhere to their long-term medications and only a third follow general lifestyle recommendation.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/short-courses-and-cpd/dementia-awareness-training:
This one-day training provides the necessary knowledge and information to prepare staff with confidence in how to manage the holistic needs of the person with dementia.
It will be of interest to staff from primary care-based practitioners, mental health and social care professionals working in inpatient and community settings, whose role may include delivering care and support to individuals with dementia.
This ‘study day’ training course is part of a CPD series for nurses and other health and social care professionals working in primary or community or inpatient care settings.
The aim is to offer sessions which upskill/ update practitioners on specific primary/ community/inpatient care-related topics.
Sessions cover a wide range of clinical, practice and professional issues
Research has shown that the end of life care needs of patients with dementia and their families, are poorly understood and poorly addressed.
There are several funding options available:
For more information on these options, including fee rates for self-funding/employer-sponsored students, please visit our dedicated funding page.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/short-courses-and-cpd/deteriorating-patient-in-mental-health-settings-:
During this one-day training, participants will explore how to detect, assess, recognise, and manage a deteriorating adult patient.
The workshop develops the learners’ knowledge and skills to identify the deteriorating patient.
It assumes that participants already perform vital signs assessments, but each skill is refreshed.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/short-courses-and-cpd/emergency-first-aid-at-work:
Emergency First Aid at Work is a QA Level 3 Award (RQF) designed for individuals who wish to act as an emergency first aider in their workplace.
Emergency First Aid at Work is a QA Level 3 Award (RQF) designed for individuals who wish to act as an emergency first aider in their workplace and is ideal for nominated first aid staff over the age of 16 who woke in low risk environments.
For those needing additional training, please see our First Aid at Work course .
This six hour course covers a wide range of basic lifesaving first aid practical skills and knowledge which can be taught either at our training centre at Middlesex University, Hendon, or at your place of work.
Over the course of this programme, delegates will explore:
There is a continual assessment of the practical element and a multiple-choice question paper at the end of the day.
Places are £60 half day, £120 full day.
Upon completion delegates will be issued with a nationally recognised certificate, valid for 3 years.
The course fee also includes a first aid booklet.
For individuals to book a place, please visit our online store .
For companies or groups, we can arrange alternative dates at your premises or on the Hendon Campus and are pleased to offer the following:
To access these special offers, please email firstaid@mdx.ac.uk .
Download an enquiry form and for more information on the application process.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/short-courses-and-cpd/equality-and-diversity-study-day:
This one-day training aims to develop awareness and knowledge on the importance of inclusion:  being culturally sensitive and supportive towards service users with diverse backgrounds.
It will also help participants confidently address the needs of people with a range of sexual identities and sexualities to promote wellbeing.
This session will equip mental health professionals with the basic skills, knowledge, and confidence to promote and value inclusivity in practice.
By completion of this study day, you will be able:
Study mode : Synchronous online delivery via virtual classroom using one of the following web-based learning and teaching platforms (e.g.
During this module, you will learn to:
This module is delivered by distance learning.
Summative assessment scheme
The module will be assessed by one essay worth 90% of the marks and contribution to online discussion boards (10%).
A 2,500 word evaluative essay
Applying criminological theories and concepts, you will be required to provide a critique and assessment of a specific drugs initiative within the criminal justice system (e.g.
arrest referral, street level enforcement, policing drug markets, quasi-compulsory drug treatment, drug courts, drug testing or treatment in prison etc) with reference to the relevant research literature and evidence.)
Contribution of 150-200 words to at least 5 separate online discussion boards (5 x 2%).
You will receive 2% for each contribution, up to a maximum total of 10%.
These contributions need to be made to the online discussion boards at the end of each unit.
They will be assessed at the end of the teaching period (16.04.21)
The module comprises six units which will be delivered over 12 weeks, all learning materials will be accessed via the online myLearning platform.
The module will be taught between Monday 11 January 2021 and Friday 16 April 2021 with the Summative assessment (2,500 word essay) being due on Friday 16 April 2021.
There will be two online workshops scheduled during the module.
There will opportunities for individual tutorials and formative feedback on essay plans.
To apply for this course, please email our NHS study days team.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/short-courses-and-cpd/exclusivity-diversity-and-inclusivity-module:
This module aims to develop a practitioner who has greater understanding of how to promote equality, diversity and inclusivity in the care and management of women and pregnant people in the childbearing continuum and their families.
To develop a practitioner who has greater understanding of how exclusion and diversity influences care, who has non-bias insight and is able to cater for childbearing women and pregnant people regardless of culture, race, ethnicity and disability.
Practitioners will develop the skills and strategies to confidently challenge discriminatory practices.
The teaching and learning strategy is designed to facilitate learning for busy learners, making it easier to study from home as sessions will be delivered online.
You have the option of studying a single module for 15 credits, or as part of a master’s degree at Level 6 or 7.
Particular emphasis will be placed on fostering participatory approaches in a way that facilitates your learning.
For further details please contact A.halawi@mdx.ac.uk
Active learning will be used to encourage interaction between learners and tutors, drawing on user and community expertise as well as your own experiences.
You will be provided with online learning materials and online lectures as well as additional guided reading.
Engaging with active discussion and reflection will enable you to consolidate, and extend your knowledge, and help to prepare you for the assessment.
There will include five sessions that will be delivered online with one to one tutorial on completion.
You will be assessed through a written work.
The fees* below refer to the 2023/24 academic year unless otherwise stated.
Per credit: £63 15 credits: £945
For more information for any of these options, including fee rates for self-funding/employer-sponsored students, please visit our dedicated funding page .
To apply for this module, please visit our CPD health practitioner page for an application form.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/short-courses-and-cpd/family-interventions-in-psychosis:
This one-day training aims to provide a summary of the impact of the role of the carers and the clinical needs of mental health service users with psychosis who are regularly cared for by families and friends
This workshop provides participants with the opportunity to develop their knowledge and skills in conducting physical health assessments and monitoring in service users with serious mental illness (SMI).

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/short-courses-and-cpd/first-aid-at-work:
The QA Level 3 Award in First Aid at Work (RQF) Requalifying Course is specifically designed to allow first aiders to renew their First Aid at Work qualification when their certificate is due to expire.
During this 3 day course, delegates will have the opportunity to practice essential first aid procedures, as well as learn the latest techniques for dealing with emergency situations and managing injuries and illnesses in the workplace.
This 3 day course covers a wide range of highly relevant topics and can take place either at the training centre in Middlesex University or we can come to your place of work.
There is a continual assessment of the practical element and multiple choice question papers at the end of each day.
Places are £175 pp (No VAT)
Upon completion, delegates will be issued with a nationally recognised certificate, valid for 3 years.
The course fee also includes a practice first aid pack used during the course, a first aid kit to take away and a course manual.
For individuals booking their place, please visit our online store .

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/short-courses-and-cpd/improving-physical-health-needs-in-serious-mental-illness:
This one-day training aims to address the physical health needs of people with mental illness by increasing your awareness to consider these needs opportunistically and to deliver physical health checks to this patient group.
It will be of interest to mental health professionals working with service users with schizophrenia and other psychoses under inpatient and community mental health settings.
During the session, participants will be introduced to a range of common family–based interventions, assessing their role in promoting the wellbeing of service users and current evidence base.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/short-courses-and-cpd/medical-emergencies-in-dental-practice:
All dental practice staff are advised to have regular training in how to deal with emergencies in the work place.
Medical Emergencies in Dental Practice is a 6 hour course that meets the training requirements of both the GDC and the Resuscitation Council (UK) as set out in the Quality Standards for CPR and training within primary dental care.
'A patient could collapse on any premises at any time, whether they have received treatment or not.
It is therefore essential that ALL registrants are trained in dealing with medical emergencies, including resuscitation, and possess up to date evidence of capability.'
General Dental Council 'Scope of Practice 2013
The team at Middlesex University have many years' experience of teaching dental staff both in the work place and in our purpose-built skills lab in Hendon Campus.
As well as an annual refresher in Basic Life Support and the use of an Automated External Defibrillator (AED) this study day is designed to increase awareness of how to manage the following medical emergencies which may present in Dental Practice:
There is no formal assessment, but continuous feedback is given by the course facilitator
Places are £110 pp (no VAT).
Upon completion delegates will be issued with a nationally recognised certificate, valid for one year.
There are currently no dates for individual bookings.
For companies or groups, we can arrange dates to suit either at your premises or on the Hendon Campus, and we can offer the following:
Complete an enquiry form and for more information on the application process.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/short-courses-and-cpd/mental-health-assessment:
This one-day training aims to develop participants’ understanding of mental health and mental illness by describing how mental health problems are assessed and managed.
It will be of interest to all staff working in health and social care settings, including community-based practitioners, adult nurses, mental health professionals working in inpatient and community settings, and students on any health programmes.
This workshop provides participants with the opportunity to develop their awareness of the causes, diagnosis, clinical presentation, assessment, and management of mental illness.
For more information on these options, including fee rates for self-funding/employer-sponsored students, please visit our dedicated funding page .

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/short-courses-and-cpd/perinatal-mental-health:
This session aims to upskill the mental health workforce to support women with perinatal mental health problems.
We will also explore issues using complex case scenarios focussing on safeguarding issues: such as Domestic violence and substance misuse in the prenatal period.
It will be of interest to mental health and social care professionals working in inpatient and community settings.
This course will equip you with a deeper understanding of crucial perinatal issues, including depression among women, with particular focus on key contributory factors such as screening, social issues, mental health history and postnatal support.
You will develop the specialist knowledge and skills to care for babies and families with perinatal mental health needs in this fascinating and informative one-day course for any health practitioner who works with pregnant women and new mothers.
A fundamental objective of the Mental Health Five Year Forward Plan is that by 2020/21, there will be improved access to specialist perinatal mental health provision in England.
This strategy is in direct result of evidenced difference and disparity in the provision and access to expert perinatal mental health services across the country.
This workshop will equip mental health professionals with the basic skills, knowledge, and confidence to work with women who have perinatal mental health problems.
Audience — Anyone who is working in mental health services, social care.
Perinatal Mental Health Type: Study day
To apply for this module, please download and complete the Entry Criteria Form then complete the Nursing CPD application form .
The Entry Criteria form requires you to get signatures from your lead prescriber, your manager and supervisor.
Please ensure to upload your completed Entry Criteria form when submitting the completed application form.
Note, both forms must be submitted together for your application to be considered.
If you do not send an entry criteria, your application will not be processed without it.
Applications should be submitted before the end of September, for shortlisting for interview.
Shortlisted applicants will be invited to a 20-minute online interview via Zoom.
You will be interviewed by a member of the teaching team and a service user.
Applicants who are a successful at interview will be offered a place for the January intake.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/short-courses-and-cpd/perinatal-mental-health-module:
This module is a must for those working in healthcare and community services who are looking to develop their knowledge and skills in relation to the care of women and birthing people in the perinatal period.
The perinatal period is often a window of opportunity for managing mental health illnesses to prevent avoidable suffering, isolation and loss of life.
You have the option of studying a single module for 30 credits as part of a certificate, or as part of a master’s degree at Level 6 or 7.
This module will develop your perinatal mental health knowledge and skills within your area of expertise with a focus on the perinatal period.
It will give you the expertise to familiarise yourself with the range of mental health illnesses in pregnancy to post-delivery and their management to include national recommendations within the provision of care in maternity.
For further details please contact Anabel Halawi .
There will include six sessions (covering the below) that will be delivered on-line with one to one tutorial on completion.
If you choose to study the Level 6 module, you must provide evidence of successful study at Level 5.
If you choose to study the Level 7 module, you must provide evidence of successful study at Level 6.
Per credit: £63 30 credits: £1,890

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/short-courses-and-cpd/positive-behaviour-support:
This one-day training aims to equip participants with knowledge in Positive Behaviour Support (PBS) and to help them to identify how they could use it in their practice, to support positive behavioural change to improve the lives of people with a learning disability, autism and/or mental health problems.
It will be of interest to anyone with a special interest in PBS, students on any health programmes, community-based practitioners, mental health professionals working in inpatient and community setting with service users.
The overall aim of Positive Behaviour Support (PBS) is to improve the quality of a person's life and the people around them.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/short-courses-and-cpd/promoting-mental-wellbeing-in-physical-health-settings:
This one-day training will introduce the learner to the knowledge and skills necessary in understanding and working with people with mental health issues
This one-day training will introduce the learner to the knowledge and skills necessary in understanding and working with people with mental health issues.
The session will incorporate best practice from documents such as NICE Clinical Guideline 123 Common mental health problems: identification and pathways to care (2011), No Health without Mental Health (Royal College of Psychiatrists, 2009), and Parity of esteem (Mental Health Foundation).
For more information of these options, including fee rates for self-funding/employer-sponsored students, please visit our dedicated funding page.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/short-courses-and-cpd/promoting-positive-lifestyle-interventions:
This workshop will equip and prepare mental health professionals with the basic skills, knowledge, and confidence to promote health and wellbeing in service users.
This one-day training offers a fantastic opportunity for frontline staff to gain practical knowledge to effectively help people to take steps to improve their wellbeing.
This workshop focuses on supporting people to make healthier choices.
It will equip and prepare mental health professionals with the basic skills, knowledge, and confidence to promote health and wellbeing in service users.
At the end of this lecture the students should be able to.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/short-courses-and-cpd/social-inclusion-and-recovery-in-mental-health:
Promoting social inclusion and recovery lies at the heart of current mental health services and care.
You will engage with contemporary theory, research, and policy and will critically review service developments and synthesise information and ideas from a review of service.
It has been developed to assist mental health practitioners to enhance their skills in social inclusion practice, promoting recovery through effective care planning and management of patient care needs for individuals under mental health services.
Upon successful completion of this module, you will be able to:
The current COVID-19 situation and ongoing uncertainty and challenges surrounding social distancing rules has impacted on how we deliver learning and teaching.
To this end, all our short courses, modules and programmes will be delivered this autumn onwards through a mix of online/virtual and face to face modes.
You will be taught using a variety of learning and teaching methods, including study days; to develop and enhance your knowledge; and lectures, seminars and workshops which are interactive to encourage group discussion and student participation.
Online learning guides such as course materials and directed exercises will also be available as well as additional resources on risk assessment and management and associated practice-based skills.
When not in class, you will be able to apply your new and developed skills and knowledge in your current organisation and further develop and reflect upon the classroom learning in practice.
Final assessment for this module will be through a poster presentation.
The fees* below refer to the 2025/26 academic year unless otherwise stated.
Per credit: £67 15 credits: £1,005
To be eligible for this module, you must provide evidence of an ability to study at Level 7.
Please note, applications to this module will close 10 days before the module start date.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/short-courses-and-cpd/working-with-service-users-clients-who-misuse-substances:
Participants will learn about the problematic use of various substances (the most commonly misused alcohol and drug substances in the UK including the novel psychoactive substances (NPS).
This one-day training will develop health and social care worker’s knowledge and awareness of addiction and problematic substance use in service users.
It will be of interest to all healthcare professionals, including students on any health programmes, drug workers, individuals involved in needle exchange and harm reduction services, commissioners, public health practitioners, community-based practitioners, pharmacists, mental health professionals working in inpatient and community setting with service users, and anyone with a special interest in substance misuse.
During the session, participants will learn about the problematic use of various substances (the most commonly misused alcohol and drug substances in the UK including the novel psychoactive substances (NPS), and will increase in confidence in their ability to carry out a brief assessment around substance use in their work settings.
MS teams, Kaltura NewRow, Adobe Connect, Zoom).

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/professional-practice-dprof--business:
Designed for busy working professionals, this part-time distance learning course will allow you to balance your studies with work, in order to make lasting changes in your organisation
The Business School's DProf is designed to raise the level of professional capabilities of practicing senior managers and executives.
It does this by developing your skills of reflective practice, by enhancing your knowledge of leading-edge areas of business, and by providing an opportunity to develop your capabilities in practice-based research by means of a major research project.
Our DProf is designed for busy senior managers and executives who want to gain new insights and perspectives into leadership and management based on critical exploration of their own evolving professional practice.
It is particularly appropriate for those wishing to improve their capability to lead and manage change in an established or new organisation without having to seek time off for formal study.
A key role is played in your capability enhancement by the capstone research project, which enables senior practitioners to improve their professional practice by undertaking rigorous research into that practice.
For more information, please contact professionals@mdx.ac.uk
For business leaders in Novuna Business Cash Flow ranking, 2023
Award for very high-quality student experience and student outcomes
For entrepreneurs and business leaders – Business Money, 2023
The course is divided into three main phases: the first and second last for a minimum of one semester (6 months) each, and the third continues for a minimum of three further years.
During the first two phases of the course, you will be supported by online study resources, peer-group discussions, and the support of a personal academic advisor.
For the third phase of the programme of study, you will undertake a major research project that focuses on the work you are undertaking in your organisation as senior professionals, typically in a change leadership role.
Throughout the course, which is studied part time, your focus is on your professional activity in an organisational context.
The DProf provides a structured framework for critically understanding your work-based activity, and equips you to operate as a reflective professional practitioner.
The research project provides an opportunity for you to critically evaluate the learning you have achieved while leading significant change in the workplace, and to express this in writing in a systematic way that is both informed by and informs relevant theory.
Phase 1:
This module provides an opportunity to show that you are equipped for the high-level work required on the rest of the doctoral programme in three areas: the ability to learn from experiential practice; the professional capability to lead workplace interventions of the kind that will form the basis for their research investigations; and the ability to undertake practitioner-oriented research.
These capabilities are reported in a piece of persuasive written argumentation (the Review), supported by relevant documentary evidence, which critically evaluates and sets out your credentials for work at doctoral level in all three areas.
Much of this review is retrospective, in that it considers your personal and professional learning leading up to this course, and your research competence to date.
Some of it is more future oriented, in that it considers how well you are equipped to lead and manage emerging and new workplace activities, and how you intend to improve your capability for achieving these changes.
The Review forms the basis for any claims made for the recognition and accreditation of prior learning (see below), both in relation to professional learning and research capability (such claims are included as appendices to the review).
As part of your Review of Professional Capability, you are invited to submit written claims (supported by relevant evidence) for the academic accreditation of your prior learning, typically in an organisational context.
If you do not make such claims, or you make them but they are deemed to be inappropriate or insufficient for the credits claimed, then you will take one or more elective modules in their place.
These modules will focus mainly on: the development of reflective practice skills; the development of practitioner research skills; and the development of specific professional capabilities.
Phase 2:
The main aim of this module is to enable you to consider the range of approaches and methodologies relevant to advanced professional practitioner research work, and to use this knowledge to design and plan one or more doctoral research projects aimed at developing your capability as a practitioner-researcher, advancing your organisation, and contributing to your community of practice and/or profession.
The outcome of this module is a Learning Agreement, which you draw up to summarise the nature of the research project you intend to pursue in the final phase of the course.
This will identify the professional activities in your organisation that will form the focus of your research, the research approach and techniques to be used in your investigation, and expected outcomes for yourself, your organisation and your profession.
Phase 3:
This module provides students with a means of applying the research skills gained during phase 1 to a substantial project focused on their evolving role as change leaders within their organisation.
The project provides a context in which the candidate will integrate and develop further their professional practitioner skills and knowledge.
The project topic will be chosen in discussion with the academic adviser and the candidate's chosen consultant(s), and will have major outcomes in terms of personal professional development, organisational benefits and broader relevance to the professional community to which the candidate belongs.
The aim is for students to develop a project in relation to a specific organizational issue or problem.
It enables students to demonstrate proficiency in relation to the scope of the relevant issues identified, consider relevant literature relating to the project, collect and apply data, consider the financial implications including any cost/benefit analysis in relation to justifying specific recommendations as well as consider any other relevant implementation issues.
You can start the DProf in October each year, and you study part-time, typically over a period of four years.
The programme was specifically designed for busy professionals who are unlikely to be unable to attend a university on a regular basis while studying for their doctorate.
All study is therefore undertaken by distance learning, using modern communication technologies, including: web study resources, online discussion forums, email, Skype, etc.
Moreover, each participant has the support of a dedicated academic advisor throughout their period of studies, in addition to drawing on tutors, a possible specialist consultant and other participants in their cohort.
We do not have conventional lecture or seminar classes on campus, nor do we require attendance at residencies, summer schools, or block teaching periods.
This means that there is no need for overseas students to acquire a student visa, because residence in the UK is not required for study on the programme.
Of course, all programme participants are welcome to visit us on campus any time they wish, whether it is to use our extensive on-campus facilities, or to meet their academic advisors and other programme staff.
The only mandatory attendance is at our Induction Day, which immediately precedes the start of the programme.
For further information please visit our Recognition of Prior Learning page .
We accept the equivalent of a masters degree or above from a recognised overseas qualification.
Managerial experience means managerial responsibility for people, and/or functions, and/or technical expertise, and would normally, typically involve experience of change leadership.
To find out more about the qualifications we accept from your country please visit the relevant Support in Your Country page.
Please see our Visas and Immigration page for further information.
Please download an application form from our online portal.
Once complete, please email your application form and supporting documents to us.
Part-time students: £6,300
Full-time students: £8,900

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/professional-arts-practice-ba-honours:
Foster a vibrant and communicative community of arts practitioners internationally via our online learning professional arts practice degree.
Our department has strong ties to London's creative industries, making this the ideal place to enhance your existing experience and build a professional network.
This course is designed to be flexible so it can fit around your existing commitments.
Taught through an innovative mix of taught online sessions and virtual learning, you'll receive personalised support to develop your creative practice and build a professional network.
The course will culminate in a major practice-based project, allowing you to showcase your work in a discipline of your choosing.
You'll also be able to channel your existing experience into a BA, giving you an excellent foundation to build a career in the creative industries.
Covering work based learning and subject-based areas
The course is fully online, meaning you can fit your learning around your existing professional activities and work commitments
Your practice is central to your research, making your study valuable to colleagues, employers, and students
Module one: This focuses on reflecting on your personal professional practice up to the point of starting the course.
It offers time and space to think about how far you have come and helps identify where to go next.
Module two: This module helps you plan your own professional research project, learn how to craft a research proposal and literature review, as well as how to use a variety of methodologies.
This will also explore key areas of practice to develop further skills and knowledge.
Module three: The final module is where you will undertake an independent professional practice research project around a topic of your choosing related to your professional practice.
You will be guided through this research by a supervisor.
This module aims to provide you with theory, reflective tasks and to stimulate collaborative discussion (with Supervisors and the BA student cohort).
You will be introduced to theory on reflective practice, pedagogy, modes of learning, networking / connectivism, and communication to position yourself in terms of your own learning approach and trajectory of your professional practice.
The module also aims to identify learning as knowledge, generated by and emanating from professional experiences.
This module aims to equip students with all the necessary elements to undertake a professional practice-based research project.
It will guide students through establishing research aims and questions, exploring a variety of methodological approaches and data collections tools, examine best ethical practices, engage with a variety of analytical methods and explore key scholarship to inform a proposed research study.
Students will also be guided through undertaking ethical clearance procedures as required by university regulations.
The aim of module is to allow students to conduct a uniquely designed research project that will help with developed personal professional practice.
This will be mostly through an execution of the plans made through module ACI3002.
Students will carry out data collection and analysis in their project, ensuring use of methods such as triangulation to explore how practice can develop in response to literature and primary data.
Students will also articulate their findings through a professional artefact allowing them to manifest how their practice will change as a result of research.
To find out more about this course please download the Professional Arts Practice BA Honours specification (PDF) .
The course is delivered entirely online through a series of taught sessions, discussion groups and one-to-one supervision.
This course is entirely online, so you can study at your place of work, or wherever you have a good internet connection.
We are experienced in professional practice and our staff are dedicated to creating a lively and useful environment for independent learning.
Your independent learning is supported by the library and study hub, laptop hire, and with online materials.
Module 1
60%
40%
120
Module 2
165
135
Module 3
5%
30
47.5%
285
You will be assessed on your ability to identify and analyse practice-based knowledge through reflective writing and professional artefact.
Your ability to translate academic research findings into professional practice will be reviewed via the ability to integrate current literature into these reflections, situating your own professional practice in the wider professional field and evaluating the potential for integration of this research into your practice.
An extended research project and ethics application form will assess your understanding of ethical principles and their application to a specified research project.
Reflexivity is assessed by your depth and level of engagement with the theory and activity introduced through the course materials and suggested independent research.
Candidates who wish to apply for BA Professional Practice (BAPP), Arts and Creative Industries (specialisation) should hold one of the following qualifications:
Any candidate who does not hold any of the above qualifications but has a minimum of 3 years of professional experience can apply for the 'experienced practitioner' route.
We normally invite students to submit a portfolio and attend an interview.
You can find more details under the 'Interview and portfolio' tab
If you do not hold the entry qualifications but have three or more years of professional experience, we also offer an 'Experienced Practitioner' route.
This gives greater focus to skills and knowledge already developed within your professional practice for years one and two.
Candidates who wish to apply for BA Professional Practice (BAPP) Arts and Creative Industries (specialisation) should hold one of the following qualifications:
You can find more information under the "Interview and portfolio" tab.
Applications for the Professional Practice in Arts BA Hons should be made directly  via our online application system .
You will need to set up an Applicant Portal account.
Once you've submitted your application you'll be able to track the progress of your application, upload supporting documents/portfolio/show-reel and make subsequent applications.
This award will open up a range of further routes towards a successful career in the arts:
We recognise student joining this programme have come out of an intense period of training or working within the industry and the programme team centre student wellbeing as a priority and attention to meaningful feedback to support students on an individual basis.
We recognise that during the course many students will be undertaking full time work and so have created a flexible learning model by which studies can be fit around day-to-day practice.
We also ask students to connect their assignments to the practice they are engaged in on regular basis.
University Support, Online web resources, such as the use of virtual learning environments, group online discussions, personal Academic Advisors, extended professional practice networking group facilitated by BAPP Arts alumni (and MA Professional Practice alumni).
Students will also have access to the Library, Learning Enhancement Team and other learning support services.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/building-information-modelling-management-and-sustainable-digital-delivery-msc:
Get the Building Information (BIM) compliance skills needed by the construction sector with this specially-designed BIM course in the UK
The construction sector is a major part of the UK economy and any centrally procured project is required to comply with Building Information Modelling (BIM) and its current global standards.
This is the process of creating and managing construction information through a project's life cycle with higher efficiencies in workflows and processes using Technology and Sustainable Digital Delivery as a catalyst.
We are one of the first institutions in the world to offer a work-based Building Information Modelling programme.
This master's degree is specifically designed to meet the current shortage of high-quality graduate professionals by developing their skillsets in managing projects, global teams, and organisations in the efficient technical, operational and strategic coordination of processes, workflows, people, assets and state-of-the art technologies that BIM requires.
Our programme won bronze in the Hong BIM Awards 2023.
The programme is one of the first MSc programmes globally, structured in all its modules to perfectly align with all 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals.
Our perspective of BIM Management is an overarching umbrella that includes within it design, construction, information, project, supply chain and sustainability/circularity management.
The course is for experienced professionals who manage BIM projects including architects, architectural technologists, construction and civil engineers, mechanical, electrical and plumbing services (MEP) engineers, heating, ventilation and air-conditioning (HVAC) engineers, technicians, contractors, subcontractors, fabricators and manufacturers, Facilities and operations managers (FM & OM) and quantity surveyors.
Students on this course are often in full-time employment and you can study around your work and home commitments.
You can finish the course in 12 months with the full-time study option or over two years with the part-time distance learning.
Our approach to teaching is built on professional practice and applied research, and we work with industry leaders to make sure you develop the skills employers need.
You’ll be taught by leading academics and experts and have access to tailored career advice and support from your first day through to graduation and beyond.
You will gain a respected postgraduate qualification and the practical skills to manage BIM compliance for building and construction projects successfully.
And develop highly specialised technical, analytical, collaborative, operational and strategic decision-making skills that are needed worldwide.
You will do this by:
The course is in the process of accreditation by the CIOB (Chartered Institute of Building), CIAT (Chartered Institute of Architectural Technology) and JBM (Joint Board of Moderators which includes ICE, ISE, IHE, CIHT).
We are the only institution to offer a work-based building information modelling course in the UK that is aligned with all the UN Sustainable Development Goals
90% of our alumni go on to work in BIM Management roles in the construction industry globally
The course is divided into 3 consecutive modules: Technical BIM Management, Operational BIM Management, and Strategic BIM Management.
If you complete just the first two modules, you'll be awarded a PGDip and if you complete all three modules, you'll be awarded an MSc.
The module aims to analyse the bounds and global frameworks, concepts and standards of the technical BIM management domain throughout the whole lifecycle.
This is in terms of: business, process, information types, structure and standards, enabling technologies, organisational culture, project teams and entire supply chain throughout the whole lifecycle.
This will allow development of the knowledge and understanding of the technical issues related to Building Information Modelling and digital construction / industry 4.0 technologies, which is the core requirement for managing BIM processes.
Skills for research will be developed related to the emergent BIM practices and processes, and develop skills for reviewing, critical analysis, reporting and presenting these issues.
The module aims to enhance the knowledge and understanding for the operational and administrative issues related to Building Information Modelling and sustainable digital delivery via existing global standards and frameworks.
This includes the ability to assess risks, manage quality control, assess costs, budgets and project time phasing.
Coordination of the operational teams from different disciplines utilising BIM models and data, updating acquisition of data between them, and aiding in the smooth and lean operation of construction procedures, facilities management and maintenance of a building using collaboration.
Incorporation of legal aspects, contracts, insurances and warranties.
Also enable students to acquire skills for research issues related to newly emergent BIM practices and processes, and develop skills for reviewing, critical analysis, reporting and presenting these issues.
The module aims to cover practical technical applications of BIM and sustainable digital delivery of construction and infrastructure projects.
This includes integration of information models comprising of 3D models, graphical and non-graphical data, their database systems and documentation containing detailed information linked to those models.
Also live examples will be analysed for technical setup, documentation, classification of projects at different lifecycle stages with focus on sustainability and circularity practices that align with the Un Sustainable Development Goals.
This is in addition to coordination of the technical teams from different disciplines creating the models and their related information.
This module delves into real-world applications and live projects to discuss different project strategies for risk, quality, legal, cost, time, supply chain, and construction technologies’ management but through a specialised lens of sustainable and circular methodologies and processes.
Industry 4.0 technologies are also analysed and how they can contribute to operational BIM management and environmental impact, with case study examples e.g.
using digital twins, big data, robotics, AI, blockchain etc.
More focus is also given on acquiring research skills investigating future usage of technologies for more efficient buildings and infrastructure performance.
The module aims to enhance the knowledge and understanding of candidates for the strategic issues related to Building Information Modelling management and sustainable digital delivery and implementation at organisational level.
This includes the ability to forecast organisational risks, quality assurance, assess budget planning, foresee financial, commercial benefits, partnerships, future investments etc.
of implementation of industry 4.0 and construction technologies on an organisational level.
Also considered are creation of departments, teams from different disciplines, defining organisational structure and roles within the BIM process, supply chain procurement in general according to the adoption strategy of the organisation.
This module builds on acquiring skills for research issues related to newly emergent strategic BIM practices and processes, skills for reviewing, critical analysis, reporting and presenting.
To find out more about the current course, please download the Building Information Modelling Management and Sustainable Digital Delivery MSc course specification (PDF).
On this course, all teaching and learning is online.
You will meet, work and study with other students and your tutors virtually so you can learn at your own pace, in your own time.
The course is delivered completely digitally including our lectures, presentations, tutorials and a summer school thesis workshop through biweekly online interactive live webinars.
Our academics and global industry professionals will offer presentations and webinars with plenty of opportunities for discussion.
For this distance learning course, you can study from anywhere with an internet connection.
You can come on campus in Hendon, north London which is also an opportunity for research, training, benefitting from the library and workshop facilities and preparation for work on your thesis
In a typical year, you’ll spend about 1200 hours on your course in full-time mode.
Here's how a typical week will look like:
FT: Full-time students
PT: Part-time students
On-campus: This includes tutor-led sessions such as seminars, lab sessions and demonstrations as well as student-led sessions for work in small groups
Online learning: This is teaching that is delivered online using tools like MS Teams or Zoom, as well as work that you do yourself using online teaching resources.
Independent study: This is the work you do in your own time including reading and research
There are no exams but your coursework including design projects, case studies, critical analysis, conference papers and your thesis for the MSc will be assessed.
We provide case studies or you can use examples from your career to date.
You'll be provided with regular bi-weekly feedback on your deliverables from university staff and industry professionals.
Additionally, you'll evaluate your own work, skills and knowledge and identify your strengths, weaknesses, and areas for improvement.
Some assessment work will be done in groups where you will feedback on each other's progress.
Throughout each term, classes and workshops are designed to ensure you have numerous opportunities to receive regular feedback to help you progress your learning.
Some of the roles our graduates have gone on to work in managerial roles at a technical, operational or strategic level within an organisation.
These roles could include model managers, BIM coordinators, BIM managers and BIM directors.
You'll learn by working with our industry partners and on sponsored projects which will help you develop future career opportunities.
We welcome applications from prospective students from a wide variety of backgrounds and experience.
Apply as early as possible for your chosen course to ensure you are granted a place.
You can put in your application before you receive your final qualification score.
We are looking for creative proactive individuals who are confident using the latest technology.
With strong leadership and team player qualities.
You should reflect these qualities in your personal statements .
You are not required to attend an interview for this course.
MSc Full-time students: £10,000 Part-time per taught credit: £67 Part-time per dissertation credit: £33
MSc Full-time students: £12,800 Part-time per taught credit: £86 Part-time per dissertation credit: £42
Find out more about our postgraduate scholarships including:
Alumni testimonial
"I won the award for Excellence in BIM Implementation on behalf of my company.
Since I am personally in charge of BIM implementation and managing all aspects of BIM it gives me a lot of energy going forward.
Although I started the BIM implementation process in 2008, I must say this course helped me a lot in structuring the workflow and finally recognizing through an award!
Currently, BIM has not fully captured the Middle Eastern market.
Although technology has advanced, the skills gap and lack of direction of standards remain an issue in the market.
As I am an international student from the Middle East where BIM awareness is currently low and confusing multiple standards and practices are followed, I had to struggle initially till I joined this course.
But within the first quarter of the course, I have managed to get a good insight into structured BIM management and its professional application.
Now I have started to put into practice what I learnt from this course."
Pavithran Kannoth,
Design and BIM Director, Brookfield Multiplex Middlesex East

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/professional-practice-in-maritime-operations-pgcert:
The Professional Practice in Maritime Operations is a flexible postgraduate course, especially designed for seafarers and shore based maritime professionals who are looking to use their existing industry qualifications (such as the Class 1 Certificate of Competence) towards a Masters degree.
This maritime course enables you to integrate your current experience and qualifications into a programme of study that is carried out alongside your normal work.
Our adaptable approach allows you to tailor its contents around the needs of your present working role.
You can study remotely while developing your career in the maritime industry, whether that be in a seafaring or a shore based role.
Those who will benefit most highly are seafarers seeking a qualification that will allow them to transfer into different industries.
As this is a blended learning course, your costs will be kept to a minimum.
Contact with your tutors can be arranged via the phone, email or through the internet.
The Marine Society is responsible for all of the administration on your behalf making your work/study experience as seamless as possible and offering you more study time to reach your goal of a future maritime qualification.
In order to join this course you must have held a Class 1 Certificate of Competency for three years or hold an equivalent qualification in a related subject and be currently working in the maritime sector.
If you have been working in a management role within the sector for five or more years but don’t hold a Class 1 Certificate of Competency, it may be possible to join by taking an additional Review of Learning module.
This programme can be undertaken by following one of two routes:
If a you have a Class 1 Certificate of Competence, Middlesex University will formally recognise this towards the achievement of the Postgraduate Certificate), you will then undertake the Continuing Professional Development (CPD) module.
If you do not have a Class 1 Certificate of Competence, Middlesex University can formally recognise learning from your professional experience (normally at least 5 years).
To do this you will undertake the Review of Learning module and develop a portfolio that describes one or more areas of your professional learning.
This module gives the opportunity for you to closely examine your professional development to date.
In addition, you will be guided in the development of a portfolio that you will use as a claim for university credit.
This module is designed to assist you in the development of your thinking about your own professional development.
You will create a professional development plan to assist in your continuing development.
You will also be able to formulate ideas for the final work based project.
This module requires you to develop and execute a work based project.
You will negotiate the content and scope of the project with your tutor, however, the topic must be closely related to work in the maritime sector or maritime operations.
These programmes are taught and facilitated by staff from Middlesex University.
The blended approach to teaching and learning is supported through our Virtual Learning Environment which allows you to have a high degree of flexibility in self-managing your studies.
This course provides an excellent opportunity for practitioners to use their existing expertise, professional qualifications or work experience to gain a Postgraduate Certificate.
It is particularly suitable for those who wish to develop their leadership potential whilst continuing to develop their professional practice.
This qualification will be directly relevant to your field of work and the work based project that you complete will provide a positive contribution to your organisation’s work intentions.
Candidates that successfully complete the Postgraduate Certificate Professional Practice in Maritime Operations may be eligible for entry into a suitable Master’s Degree at Middlesex University.
Applicants should normally have held a Class 1 Certificate of Competency for three years or hold an equivalent qualification in a related subject, and be working in the maritime sector.
If you have been working in a management role within the maritime sector for five or more years but don't hold a Class 1 Certificate of Competency it may be possible to join the programme by taking an additional Review of Learning module.
To discuss an aspect of the programme or to make an application to study with us, please email the Marine Society or call 020 7654 7050.
Route 1 (Certificate of Competence) fees: £TBC
Route 2 (Recognition of Professional Experience) fees: £TBC
*Course fees are subject to annual inflation so the total costs for study are shown here as a guide
Marine society scholarships may be available.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/subjects/foundation:
These courses for UK and international students aim to build your confidence and provide you with the necessary transferable skills you will need to progress onto an undergraduate degree.
We have a high number of foundation year students who have advanced onto degree level, and in many cases have become some of our most successful graduates.
The foundation year is for you if:
Read about some of the aspirational individuals who have turned their career goals into reality since graduating from Middlesex.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/ways-to-study/part-time-study:
When you study part-time you experience the financial - and career - benefits of continued employment.
You can take almost all our undergraduate and postgraduate courses on a part-time basis.
Four reasons to study part-time with us:
Part-time course fees are often less of a financial burden.
Many employers provide sponsorship so you can improve your career prospects without needing to take a break from work.
You can select the modules you would like to focus on during the year at the start of your course.
Then you'll know how much of your time must be spent on campus during the term, making it easy to fit your work and personal commitments alongside your study.
As a postgraduate, we support you to reduce the number of hours you need to be on campus.
With some combinations, it's possible to have all your classes take place on one or two days per week.
Study with us

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/ways-to-study/distance-learning:
Study for your master's where and when is right for you
Our postgraduate distance learning courses are delivered online which means you can study in your own time, at home or from wherever you choose.
They are a good option if you're working full time, unable to come to our campus regularly, or based overseas.
Our current selection of courses:
We offer many more courses working with leading educational institutions both in the UK and abroad.
Have a look at our academic partners.
We also offer blended learning courses.
These courses are delivered through a mixture of online materials and classroom based learning to provide greater flexibility of study for you.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/ways-to-study/sandwich-courses:
A way to combine the benefits of a degree with a work placement.
If you're deciding between studying for a degree, or going straight into work, then a sandwich course is a good solution.
It gives you the benefits of both experiences.
Your sandwich year is an opportunity to develop skills and networks to get work ready.
You'll meet new people and build connections in the area where you want to work.
They are an opportunity to gain professional knowledge about your industry as well as develop essential soft skills that are relevant in all jobs, such as teamwork.
Sandwich courses are proven to be effective because you'll learn skills in the first years of your university course to use during your placement.
Then you'll build upon your experience from the workplace to enhance your studies in your final year back at university.
We have developed excellent partnership relationships to help you access placements in your chosen industry.
MDXWorks, our dedicated employability centre, has professional advisers who will be able to discuss options for your placement.
They can help you to secure something that will help you to achieve your employment goals.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/careers-at-middlesex/employee-benefits:
Here, you can explore details of some of the benefits available to staff working for Middlesex University and MU Services Limited, which is wholly owned by Middlesex and provides professional services directly to the University.
We are dedicated to being an inclusive and stimulating modern university, both as a place of study and as a place of work.
Colleagues can expect to join a friendly, highly valued staff community where equality of opportunity, diversity, openness, freedom of expression and social responsibility; are key to our success.
We offer 30 days of annual leave to professional services staff and 35 days for academic staff, Professors and Senior Managers.
In addition we are closed for all Bank Holidays.
In addition to the generous leave and bank holidays, we also offer 7 days extra leave over the Christmas holiday period for all staff.
Across campus we have a range of café spaces, eat-in and take-away outlets, including Costa, CostCutter, Starbucks and Subway, as well as in-house brands serving a wide range of delicious food and drink, catering for a wide range of dietary needs including halal, kosher, vegan, vegetarian and gluten free.
There are plenty of affordable eateries, shops and cafes nearby too, including Hendon Bagel Bakery and the Co-op, both of which offer discounts to MDX staff and students on presentation of a valid staff or student card.
Our campus environment also means we have outdoor spaces - Grove Park, The Paddock and Sunny Hill Park - to take a walk, have a picnic or simply unwind.
As a staff member, you will receive full, free membership to our on-campus Sheppard Library via your staff ID card, and will be able to access an incredibly wide ranging suite of academic material and literature, as well as non-academic resources, library services and space for personal and professional use.
We support our employees with learning and training related to their role and career.
This includes leadership and management development; in house courses, seminars, workshops, online modules and coaching.
We also offer fee waivers for employees wishing to follow a relevant Middlesex degree programme.
Staff are entitled to discounted membership to Costco.
Costco's warehouses present one of the largest and most exclusive product category selections to be found under a single roof.
Categories include catering supplies, confectionery, appliances, television and media, automotive supplies, tyres, toys, hardware, sporting goods, jewellery, watches, cameras, books, housewares, apparel, health and beauty aids, tobacco, furniture, office supplies and office equipment.
Costco is known for carrying top quality national and regional brands, at prices consistently below traditional wholesale or retail outlets.
We care about our community, and the wellbeing of our staff and students is our first priority.
We promote a caring culture of compassion and kindness, and actively encourage everyone to embrace wellbeing opportunities across the University whenever they are needed.
We offer a wide range of free-to-access information, support and advice resources for employees and their families including confidential counselling, specialist legal advice, help and support on issues around domestic abuse, and specialist bereavement support, as well as membership to health and wellbeing platforms Fika and Togetherall and more.
Ever mindful of the impacts of COVID and recent times on the ways of working and wellbeing, we are continually developing our suite of support to help everyone.
In 2012, we were the first university to be awarded the Mayor for London's Healthy Workplace Excellence Award.
We have a positive employee relations environment with our recognised Trade Unions , University College Union (UCU) and UNISON, who provide guidance and support to staff on a range of employment related matters.
The occupational health service provides independent and professional specialist medical advice to employees and managers on the effect of health at work.
Our aim is to encourage and support an environment within the University which helps staff fulfil their potential, irrespective of disability and ill health.
Our aim is to prevent work-related illness and injury and to assist staff to return to work after sickness absence.
We offer 52 weeks' maternity and adoption leave and generous maternity and adoption pay.
(subject to terms and conditions within the policy) The non-primary carer may take two weeks' paid paternity leave with the option of up to 26 weeks' additional paternity leave.
Parental leave and the opportunity to take a career break are also available.
Subject to terms and conditions staff are entitled to up to 5 days paid leave (pro rata for part-timers), in any one annual leave year, to deal with an unexpected emergency involving a dependent.
An emergency may include sickness, accident, criminal injury, unexpected absence of the usual carer or serious problems at the child's school.
This is a government-run scheme.
Parents/guardians can check their eligibility and apply via the tax-free childcare pages on the GOV.UK website.
Any member of staff may request to change their working pattern or hours.
Where possible and taking into consideration the needs of the business, we support compressed hours, job-sharing, part-time working and homeworking one or two days a week.
Staff may also apply for a career break.
We understand that working in a pandemic is unlike any working before, and as a University we are committed to being as flexible as possible in helping support colleagues and students to manage their wellbeing and work-life balance.
All staff are entitled to a free eye test once every two years, along with a spectacles voucher towards the cost of glasses where they are required for DSE use.
This spectacles voucher can only be issued where a certificate of recommendation is supplied by the Optician.
We do not have a defined retirement age and staff may continue to work into their late 60s and early 70s.
If staff choose to retire they can draw their pension at any time between age 55 and 75.
The University makes a generous contribution to your pension.
The current pension provisions are as below.
Eligible members employed directly by Middlesex University will be automatically enrolled into the Teachers’ Pension Scheme , subject to terms and conditions.
Staff can make contributions ranging from 7.4% to 11.7% depending on salary levels.
The scheme is contracted out of the State Earnings Related Scheme.
Staff can opt out of the scheme at any time, once staff have become an active member.
The opting out election can be actioned by using My Pension Online within the secure member area of the Teachers Pensions website.
Both LGPS and TPS are defined benefit pension schemes – i.e.
a guaranteed pension based on the career average salary on retirement.
As of 1 February 2021, any new Professional Services staff employed will be contracted by MU Services Limited, which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Middlesex University, and will be subject to Middlesex University policies and procedures, unless advised otherwise, and will be eligible to participate in a Defined contribution pension scheme – administered by Scottish Widows Pension.
Individuals do not need to contribute but the default for employees will be set at 5%.
MU Services Limited will contribute a flat rate of 10%.
Staff will be auto-enrolled into the Defined Contribution (DC) Scheme, subject to eligibility criteria.
Staff can opt out of the scheme at any time, once staff become an active member.
Any eligible staff who opt out will be automatically re-enrolled into the scheme every 3 years on their enrolment
The University recognises and values the hard work, commitment and achievements of all its staff.
Subject to terms and conditions and with Executive approval, the University usually operates a Contribution Pay Scheme annually, which is specifically designed to reward academic and professional services staff, whose contribution, on a sustained basis, exceeds that normally expected in their role.
in terms of high levels of outcomes and competence and demonstration of our Values.
Increments where due are payable on 1 August each year for staff who have been on the current salary point for at least 6 months at the date the increment takes effect (i,e by 1st February), subject to the maximum of their particular scale and to satisfying appropriate criteria for progression.
We offer an interest-free annual Season Ticket Loan; a motorcycle loan and a Cycle to Work scheme.
If pedal power is your thing Middlesex University has partnered with Cyclescheme to offer staff savings on the cost of a new bike and accessories up to £3000.
The scheme is administered through a salary sacrifice/hire agreement, allowing staff to spread the cost over 12 months and make savings as the initiative is free of income tax and national insurance contributions (NIC).
At the end of the hire period, staff will be given the option to purchase the bicycle at a fair market value.
This scheme applies to electric bikes also – brilliant at taking the sting out of the hills around Hendon campus!
We also have a range of Green Travel initiatives and benefits to support staff and the environment.
Relocation expenses can only be offered at the interview/appointment stage of a recruitment process and are at the discretion of the employing Faculty or Service.
They are usually only offered for senior, specialised or “difficult to fill” posts.
Reimbursement can be offered to new permanent staff providing they are moving from further than one hour’s commuting distance (at peak travel time) to within one hour’s commuting time and providing they are moving their main family home.
These expenses are not applicable to an employee buying or renting a secondary home.
Part-time staff are eligible for these benefits on a pro rata basis.
Relocation expenses cannot be offered to staff on casual or temporary contracts, including part-time hourly paid teaching contracts.
The University recognises that there are special circumstances in which an individual may seek an absence from duty outside of their normal annual leave.
Such special leave may be granted as paid or unpaid depending on the circumstances and subject to terms and conditions.
We recognise the value both to an individual member of staff and to the University of a period of sabbatical leave.
We will therefore, consider on merit and within available resources, applications for sabbatical leave with or without pay as a part of planned staff development and/or research programmes.
Sabbatical leave is defined as a period of leave, normally up to six months and not more than twelve months in duration, during which time a member of staff completes an agreed programme of work as part of a planned staff development or research programme.
Sabbatical leave is normally available to all permanent staff who have been employed by the University for a period of five years and every five years thereafter.
However, it is not a contractual right and an application will be considered on its merits as listed in the sabbatical policy and within available resources and subject to terms and conditions.
At Middlesex, we respect, learn from, and support each other.
We are inclusive and fair in how we operate and we are a learning organisation, passionate about self-development and the development of others.
We are proud of our diverse community of staff, students and partners and we are committed to creating a positive working environment where diversity is a strength, everyone is treated with dignity and respect, and staff can be their best selves at work.
At Middlesex we believe in the importance of gender equality.
We signed up to the Athena Swan Charter to strengthen our efforts in this area and have been awarded a highly-esteemed Bronze Award.
The Athena Swan Charter recognises and celebrates good practice in higher education and research institutions towards the advancement of gender equality: representation, progression and success for all.
Find out more about our work towards gender equality in higher education.
Middlesex University received a Gold Award and secured a place in the Top 100 list for leading LGBTQ+ inclusive employers in the workplace in the Stonewall Workplace Equality Index 2023.
The Stonewall Workplace Equality Index is a benchmarking tool for employers to measure their pro­gress on LGBTQ+ inclusion and it recognises institutions that do significant work towards supporting their LGBTQ+ employees.
The Top Employers list is compiled from submissions to the Workplace Equality Index.
Find out more about our work towards the inclusion of LGBTQ+ people in the workplace
We have signed up to Advance HE's Race Equality Charter (REC) and have been awarded a REC Bronze Award, which demonstrate our commitment to improving the representation, progression and success of Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic staff and students within higher education.
Find out more about our work towards race equality in higher education
Business in the Community (BITC) is committed to empowering employers to tap into this economic potential by accelerating change for ethnically diverse employees.
Middlesex University has gained the highest Disability Confident Leader (level 3) status.
Disability Confident organisations play a leading role in changing attitudes for the better.
They’re changing behaviour and cultures in their own businesses, networks and communities, and reaping the benefits of inclusive recruitment practices.
We are a member of Business Disability Forum , which exists to transform the life chances of disabled people, working through and with businesses to create a disability-smart world.
Working Families leads the way in helping organisations and employees build enabling and flexible environments that enhance productivity, creativity and wellbeing so that work works for everyone.
The Inter Faith Network for the UK works to promote understanding, cooperation and good relations between organisations and persons of different faiths in the UK.
Middlesex University is located within the London Borough of Barnet.
The Borough has a ‘Faith Covenant’ with Barnet’s Multi Faith Forum .
The Forum is widely represented by the 12 faith groups within Barnet and works to promote the value of faith groups within our community and the contribution they make to a peaceful, caring society.
We have a number of Staff Networks that are proactive and successful in instigating and developing new ideas, raising awareness across different issues and experiences, and holding supportive and informative events.
The Networks are: Anti-Racism Network (MDX-ARN), Parents’ and Carers’ Network, Disability Network, Gender Network, Inter Faith Network (MDX IFN), LGBT+ Network.
Find out more about the Networks and how to join them
Recognising and valuing the talent and hard work across our staff community is important at Middlesex, and we do this in a variety of different ways across the year.
Through our One Middlesex Staff Awards usually celebrated annually, we invite colleagues to nominate those who they feel have excelled in different ways and as a whole staff community, we celebrate the successes and achievements of one another.
In 2012, our state-of-the-art campus was shortlisted for the University Facilities Award in the annual The Guardian University Awards; our Hatchcroft Building was awarded an "Excellent" rating for its environmental sustainability credentials.
Our Ritterman Building is a five storey, innovative teaching space for the Faculty of Science and Technology and the Faculty of Arts and Creative Industries, with its design incorporating a number of environmentally friendly features, including a living wall.
We are working towards having facilities among the best anywhere, with more than £200 million invested in creating one of London's biggest and best campuses – part of our commitment to providing an excellent student experience.
We have created outstanding learning environments for teaching and research, including state-of-the-art laboratories, workshops and modern lecture theatres.
We've also added new spaces where staff can relax, drink and eat with colleagues.
We are listening to our staff to continuously improve the working accommodation.
The campus has a variety of outdoor spaces to enjoy a walk; numerous cafes and a bar, as well as all the facilities that Hendon has to offer.
Working during the COVID-19 pandemic has been and continues to be a challenging and unprecedented time, in an evolving and dynamic environment.
Working from home in these ways are very different to regular working from home, and the University continues to support colleagues to adjust and adapt in various ways – including wellbeing support for working from home, virtual workplace assessments and access to appropriate equipment to work safely remotely.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/careers-at-middlesex/our-commitment-to-health-and-wellbeing:
Middlesex University is rated excellent by the GLA’s Healthy Workplace Charter Scheme and is an active member of the Healthy Universities network.
Occupational Health and Wellbeing offers a number of services to support our staff:
Staff are encouraged to disclose any disabilities or long-term health conditions, to ensure they receive the support they need to carry out their roles and thrive in the workplace.
More information for current staff are available on the staff intranet including these health and wellbeing support services:
The Spectrum.Life Employee Assistance Programme offers 24/7, 365 days a year counselling services, weekly digital gym and wellness classes and wellbeing seminars, and discounts on high street and online shopping.
The counselling services are available 24/7, 365 days a year and offer support to employees, their partner or spouse and any dependents over the age of 16 years, still living at home.
Spectrum.Life deliver over 5,000 health and wellbeing seminars, workshops and 1-1 consultations annually across 250 topics, including Remote Working, Mental Health, Nutrition, Parenting, and Ergonomics.
Spectrum.Life's Digital Gym gives employees access to live and on demand fitness and wellness classes, with a weekly schedule of twenty classes for them to choose from.
All classes are delivered by experts who demonstrate a safe and maintainable way to tackle fitness at home.
KindMind has been set up to support staff who may want to take a positive step in getting help.
It is run by staff for staff and offers 100% confidential support and guidance.
Our advisers are Mental Health First Aiders and will provide support, non-judgemental listening.
They will help you find access to the appropriate support services.
More information for current staff are available on the staff intranet .
The Sport and Recreation team manages an extensive range of activities and facilities for staff and students.
From our purpose-built gym, multi-activity courts, 3G pitches and even one of the world’s few real tennis courts right here on campus.
We offer a range of support, activities and opportunities for students studying at Middlesex.
We can help students who have a specific support or wellbeing need identify the right service for them, such as:
At Middlesex we are proud of our diverse community of staff, students and partners and we are committed to creating a positive working environment where diversity is a strength ,everyone is treated with dignity and respect, and staff can be their best selves at work.
For this reason we are members of the following charters and groups:
We believe in the importance of gender equality.
We signed up to the Athena Swan Charter to strengthen our efforts in this area and have been awarded a highly-esteemed Bronze Award .
Middlesex University received a Gold Award and secured a place in the Top 100 list for leading LGBTQ+ inclusive employers in the workplace in the Stonewall Workplace Equality Index 2023 .
The Top 100 Employers list is compiled from submissions to the Workplace Equality Index.
Middlesex University are members of Business Disability Forum , which exists to transform the life chances of disabled people, working through and with businesses to create a disability-smart world.
We have gained the highest Disability Confident Leader (level 3) status.
The Inter Faith Network for the UK (IFN) works to promote understanding, cooperation and good relations between organisations and persons of different faiths in the UK.
The Borough has a ‘Faith Covenant’ with Barnet Multi Faith Forum .

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/policies/website-accessibility/third-party-supplier-accessibility:
We are committed to working with suppliers who prioritise and advocate for digital accessibility in their products and practices.
On this webpage, we are listing statements from our suppliers which explain how their work with Middlesex University complies with digital accessibility best practice, and the steps they are making to improve in this area.
We will continue to add statements as we receive them from suppliers.
Product description: Provision of video conferencing platform.
Product description: Customer relationship management (CRM) system for understanding and communicating with customer base.
Product description: Digital management system for apprenticeships and employability-focused study programmes.
Product description: E-learning tools for designing instructional learning courses and apps.
Product description: Software used to facilitate DBS background checks.
Product description: Platform for staff to obtain Middlesex-related marketing material, such as logos, templates, and brand images.
Product description: A collaboration application that provides presence, instant messaging (IM), voice, voice messaging, and video calling capabilities on remote devices.
Product description: Interim solution for document hosting and sharing with external parties.
Product description: Web-based solution that provides fast and accurate processing for paper and online questionnaires, exams and practices in a single system.
Product description: Unified cloud-based services platform for library management.
Product description: Product for student facing experiences such as forms (e.g.
contact forms and sign-up forms), chat widget, embedded events and RSVP pages.
Product description: Portal and system for room booking, timetabling and exam scheduling.
Product description: Ethics RM is a flexible web-based forms and workflow management system for Ethical Review committees.
Product description: Student portal for advice and support on finding jobs, apprenticeships and internships.
Product description: Video management, video portal and live video chatrooms used for teaching and learning purposes.
Product description: Virtual learning environment for students to access course information and submit work.
Product Description: Web applications
Product description: Microsoft office and workplace productivity services, including email, personal storage, shared storage, video collaboration and document management.
Microsoft position Teams as the means to publish their Office 365 services.
Most if not all Office 365 services are accessible via Teams.
Product description: campusM Attendance enables students to register their attendance to a class using their mobile device or laptop browser after receiving a personalized notification.
Attendance is linked to a calendar service that reminds students about upcoming classes.
Product description: Single sign-on, identity and access management software for library e-resources.
Product description: Oracle Financials consists of many sub-products, such as 'Oracle Payables' and 'Oracle Assets'.
These products support finance, HR and payroll operations.
Product Description: Integrated solution for for CRE/FM, service providers and financial professionals.
Product Description: Provides library-purchased eBooks for student and staff use (all campuses).
Product description: Software application delivery and virtualisation to give students and staff access to university software on classroom and personally owned devices on Windows (AppsAnywhere) and Apple (Parallels RAS) OS devices.
Product description: Student engagement and analytics platform to understand a student's participation levels in their course.
Product description: Security software for end point protection.
Product description: Library tools for students to learn how to find the resources they need, check events and get questions answered.
Product Description: Splashtop Business is a remote access and remote support tool that lets you connect to computers as if you were sitting in front of them.
It is cross-platform and allows connecting from Windows, Mac, iOS, Android, and Chromebook.
Product description: Content management system for key Middlesex University websites (MDX.ac.uk, Unihub, MDX Mauritius, MDX Malta, Make Your Mark, and staff intranet).
Accessibility statement from Squiz for Matrix v5.4.1.3 (added 22 January 2021)
Product description: Reading list library software to make learning, studying, and resource access easier for students and staff.
Product description: Software used for identity management, security and access control for systems.
Product description: Programme for online submissions and plagiarism detection.
Product description: Engagement platforms to allow prospective students to interact with current students and staff, through chat, chat rooms and online events.
Product description: The MDXSU website is where students can find information about MDXSU’s opportunities and services, join student groups and societies, engage with their course’s Student Voice Leader, and take part in the democratic functions of the Union (i.e nominate/vote in elections).
Product description: Video calling and conferencing software.
We have requested statements from a number of suppliers, and they will be published on this page when received.
High priority systems include:
Further information about third party suppliers and accessibility

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/policies/freedom-of-information/lists-and-registers:
Currently maintained lists and registers.
Please contact the University's Publication Scheme Co-ordinator for information concerning the following:

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/policies/freedom-of-information/services-offered:
Information about the services we offer, including leaflets, guidance and newsletters.
All these types of information are available on this website.
Ordering a prospectus, academic calendar and timetable information.
Examples of published information
Information about careers, welfare and sport/recreation facilities
Including libraries, conference facilities and media releases.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/policies/privacy/privacy-notice-for-research-participants:
The UK General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR), tailored by the Data Protection Act 2018, protects the rights of individuals by setting out certain rules as to what organisations can and cannot do with personal data.
The meaning of ‘personal data’ is set out in section 4 below.
A key element to protecting personal data is the principle to process individuals’ data lawfully and fairly.
This means we need to provide information on how we process personal data and we should only process the personal data if there is a legal basis specified in the (UK GDPR) for doing so.
The term ‘processing’ refers to any operations performed on personal data, whether these operations are automated, or not.
Common examples of processing are collecting, sharing, recording, organising, structuring, storing, modifying, consulting, using, publishing, combining, erasing and destroying personal data.
The University takes its obligation under the UK GDPR very seriously and will always ensure personal data is collected, handled, stored and shared in a secure manner.
This Privacy Notice outlines how your personal data will be processed, in relation to research projects carried out at Middlesex University.
It will also provide guidance on your individual rights and how to make a complaint to the Information Commissioner’s Officer (ICO), the regulator for data protection in the UK.
Personal data means any information that relates to or is capable of identifying you, the research participant, as an individual.
This can include direct identifiers such as your name, address/postcode, and biometric data (e.g., voice).
It also includes indirect identifiers such as your gender, date of birth, place of work, or other information such as your opinions or thoughts, that can be combined to identify you.
We may also collect and use personal data which is referred to as ‘special category’ personal data in the UK GDPR.
Special category personal data is data relating to: race, ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, trade union membership, genetic data, biometric data (where this is used for identification purposes), health data, sex life or sexual orientation.
All research projects/studies are different and the information collected will vary.
You will be given Participant Information (before giving your consent to take part in the project/study) that will provide details of how your personal data will be collected and the specific purpose for which it will be used.
Researchers will only collect information that is essential for the purpose of the research.
The UK GDPR requires us to have a valid legal reason to process and use personal data about you.
This is often called a ‘legal basis’.
The UK GDPR requires us to be explicit with you about the legal basis upon which we rely in order to process information about you.
In the context of research, the lawful basis upon which we will process your personal data is usually where “Processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the controller” (Article 6 of UK GDPR).
We will also process personal data as permitted by Article 9, of the UK GDPR which permits processing necessary for archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific or historical research purposes or statistical purposes which shall be proportionate to the aim pursued, respect the essence of the right to data protection and provide for suitable and specific measures to safeguard the fundamental rights and the interests of the data subject.
Where we need to rely on a different legal condition, such as consent, we will inform you of this in the Participant Information provided to you.
11.
Your information will usually be shared within the research team conducting the project/study you are participating in, so that they can identify you as a participant and contact you about the research project/study.
12.
Responsible members of the University may also be given access to personal data used in a research project/study for monitoring purposes and/or to carry out an audit of the project/study to ensure that the research complies with applicable regulations.
Individuals from regulatory authorities (people who check that we are carrying out the project/study correctly) may require access to your records.
All of these people have a duty to observe and respect the confidentiality of personal data in line with legal requirements, including requirements under the UK GDPR requirements.
13.
If we are working with other organisations and individuals and information is shared about you, we will inform you in the Participant Information given to you.
Information shared will be on a ‘need to know’ basis relative to achieving the research project’s objectives, and with all appropriate safeguards in place to ensure the security of your information.
We will enter into appropriate data sharing agreements with such organisations.
14.
In the majority of instances your personal data will be processed by Middlesex University researchers only but may involve collaboration with researchers at other institutions.
Where we will process personal data in collaboration with researchers at other UK or European Union (EU) institutions, we will enter into appropriate data processing agreements which will specify the safeguards that have to be in place to comply with UK data protection law, and if applicable, EU data protection law in cases where personal data will transfer to countries of the EU.
You will be informed if data is to be processed by Middlesex University researchers only or in collaboration with researchers at other UK or EU institutions.
15.
In any instances in which your personal data might be used as part of a collaboration with researchers based outside the EU, we will enter into appropriate data processing agreements with those organisations, which will specify all necessary safeguards that have to be in place to comply with the UK GDPR requirements for safeguarding personal data that is processed in territories outside of the UK and the EU on the basis of rights and protections that apply to the processing of personal data in the UK.
You will be informed if your personal data is to be processed by researchers outside of the EU.
16.
The University takes a robust approach to protecting the information it holds with dedicated storage areas for research data with controlled access.
17.
Alongside these technical measures there are comprehensive and effective policies and processes in place to ensure that users and administrators of University information are aware of their obligations and responsibilities for the data they have access to.
By default, people are only granted access to the information they require to perform their duties.
Training is provided to new staff joining the University, existing staff regularly undergo re-training and expert advice is also available.
18.
Your information will not be kept for longer than is necessary and will usually be kept in an anonymised or pseudonymised format.
The length of time for which we keep your data will depend on a number of factors including the importance of the data, the funding requirements, the nature of the project/study, and the requirements of the publisher.
Details will be given in the Participant Information Sheet for each project/study.
19.
Under the UK GDPR you have the following rights: - to obtain access to, and copies of, the personal data that we hold about you; - to require that we cease processing your personal data if the processing is causing you damage or distress; - to require us to correct the personal data we hold about you if it is incorrect; - to require us to erase your personal data; - to require us to restrict our data processing activities; - to receive from us the personal data we hold about you which you have provided to us, in a reasonable format specified by you, including for the purpose of you transmitting that personal data to another data controller; - to object, on grounds relating to your particular situation, to any of our particular processing activities where you feel this has a disproportionate impact on your rights.
20.
Your rights to access, change (rectify), or remove your information (erasure) may be limited, as we need to manage your information in specific ways in order for the research to be reliable and accurate.
If you withdraw from the study, we may not always be able to remove the information that we have already obtained.
We must comply with a request to erase personal data, or to rectify personal data that is inaccurate unless there are grounds for refusing the request specified in the UK GDPR.
To safeguard your rights, we will use the minimum personally-identifiable information possible.
The Participant Information given to you will detail up to what point in the study data can be withdrawn.
21.
If you submit a request for access to your own personal data (subject access request) the University should disclose to you your personal data, which you are entitled to receive on the basis of your request.
This will take place within one month of your request, unless there is a justification for extending the response time by a further two months.
22 If you are not satisfied with how the University has handled your information or dealt with any request for your information, you have the right to complain (See section 25 below).
23 None of the above precludes your right to withdraw consent from participating in the research study at any time.
However, note as stated in section 20, we may not always be able to remove the information that we have already obtained; and if that is the case, we should explain the reasons for this and the legal justification.
24.
If you have any questions about the research project you are participating in, please contact the researcher conducting the project using the contact details you were supplied with in the Participant Information given to you.
25.
If you want to exercise any of the rights specified in section 19 above, or to complain if you are unhappy with the way your information has been used, you should contact the University’s Data Protection Officer (contact details below),
The University’s official contact details are: Data Protection Officer Middlesex University The Burroughs London NW4 4BT Tel: +44 (0)20 8411 5000 Email: dpaofficer@mdx.ac.uk
26.
The University will seek to deal with your request without undue delay, and in any event in accordance with the requirements of the UK GDPR.
Please note that the University will keep a record of your communications to help us resolve any issues which you raise.
Records retained will be in accordance with the University’s retention schedule.
If you are dissatisfied with how the University has dealt with a request you make relating to your personal data, or you believe that your data protection or privacy rights have been infringed, you should contact the UK Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO), which oversees data protection compliance in the UK.
Details of how to do this can be found at: (https://ico.org.uk/make-a-complaint/).
Read our Privacy Notice for Research Participants
Visit our policies page for the following documents: - The University’s Data Protection Policy; - The University’s Subject Access Request Policy.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/policies/privacy/privacy-policy-for-prospective-students:
Please read the our Data Protection Policy (DOC) , for more information.
The following statement will outline what personal data we collect from prospective students (individuals who have made an enquiry or application to study a course with us but who have not yet enrolled), how we use it and who we share it with.
It will also provide guidance on your individual rights and how to make a complaint to the Information Commissioner’s Office, the regulator for data protection in the UK.
If you have any requests concerning your personal information or any queries with regard to this policy please email our Data Protection Officer or call +44 (0)20 8411 5000.
When you express an interest in attending Middlesex University, we use your personal data in order to resolve any queries you have and to provide you information about the University and the course(s) you are interested in.
This allows you to make an informed choice about whether you wish to apply and enrol with us.
When you contact us with an enquiry, we create a record in our enquiry management system so that you don’t need to repeat details from previous communications if you have a further query.
This also means we can improve the information we provide you.
We use information collected to tailor our communications with you, and ensure they are as personalised and targeted as possible, so you find them relevant and beneficial.
These communications raise awareness of the areas which may impact your choice of university, such as our courses, facilities and services and of logistical steps you need to take when applying to us.
We also use digital tracking tools to monitor the impact of these communications and allow further improvements – for example email tracking to record when an email we send to you has been opened, or you have clicked a particular link.
We use tracking cookies and conversion pixels to show you information about Middlesex over the Google Content Network and via social networks.
This means you may see an advert for us as a result of visiting our website.
We also use custom audiences based on the email addresses of prospective and current students.
This allows us to present information about studying at Middlesex to you through Facebook and Instagram, and to identify people with similar interests who may also find it useful.
Your personally identifiable information is not used by any re-marketing service other than to present you relevant and targeted information about us.
Further details on this are provided in our cookies policy .
We undertake statistical analysis and market research using the information we collect.
This enables us to understand the effectiveness of the activities we undertake at all stages of the prospective student journey, services we provide, and to improve the products Middlesex University offers.
This may include qualitative market research and surveys.
We also use external website analytics services to analyse how users are engaging with our website, allowing us to further optimise the site and the information provided on it.
The University collects personal information from you both directly and indirectly.
The University collects personal data from you at two stages.
The volume and nature of the personal data collected is outlined below:
The University collects and uses your personal information to operate and deliver any services you have requested.
The University may share data with contracted partners to ensure we can provide these services.
The companies with which we work are committed to ensuring information is managed in line with the requirements of data protection law.
The personal data that is actually shared will always be limited precisely to what the other organisation needs to meet its requirements or deliver its services.
The University may disclose personal information in the following circumstances:
The University takes its obligations under the GDPR seriously in terms of not holding on to personal data for any longer than is necessary.
The University has a retention schedule in place for the different categories of data it holds.
We will hold your data for a maximum of two years from the month you intended to start your course.
For example: if you told us you wanted to start in September 2018 and then did not update your details with us, we would delete your data in September 2020.
We will hold your data for a maximum of three years from the month you intended to start your course.
For example: if you applied to start in September 2018 and then did not enrol, we would delete your data in September 2021.
Please see our privacy policy for current students .
Under the GDPR you have the following rights:
Please note that the above rights are not absolute, and we may be entitled to refuse requests where exceptions apply.
To exercise any of the above rights please get in contact with the University’s Data Protection Officer using the contact details provided at the start of this notice.
You also have the right to complain to the UK Regulator the Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) if you believe you request has not been dealt with properly or you have a complaint to raise against the University for any other data protection related issue.
A complaint can be raised via the ICO’s website .
You also have the right to withdraw consent from the processing of your personal data by the University at any time, if your consent was sought initially to use your personal data.
Privacy policy for the Alumni Association

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/policies/privacy/privacy-policy-for-current-students:
Please read the University’s Data Protection Policy (DOC) for more information.
The following statement will outline what personal data we collect, how we use it and who we share it with.
If you have any requests concerning your personal information or any queries with regard to this policy call  +44 (0)20 8411 5000.
We primarily collect your personal data through the information you submit via the UCAS application portal or other relevant recruitment processes.
We also ask for additional personal data during our enrolment process as we require additional information about you when you actually become a student at Middlesex.
University's Code of Practice for Research (PDF)
Some University support services also require you to provide your personal data in order for them to be able to deliver additional services.
The data needed and the justification as to why will be provided to you at the point you access the service(s).
The University collects personal data from students at various stages.
Additional personal data may be collected by the University where relevant in relation to placements, professional body requirements, extenuating circumstances applications, appeals/complaints/disciplinary cases and any further optional student services.
The primary purposes we process information about current students include:
Finally, the University processes personal data as part of research activity.
This is done in line with the University's Code of Practice for Research (PDF) , which includes meeting the requirements of current data protection legislation.
The University is required to share personal data with certain other organisations in order to meet statutory requirements or to provide services to students.
Sharing will always be undertaken in line with the requirements of data protection law, using the relevant legal basis as defined by the GDPR and other data protection legislation.
The information below outlines the key partners with whom the University shares personal data with on a periodic basis:
The University takes its obligations under the GDPR seriously in terms of not holding onto personal data for any longer than is necessary.
In some cases, there are good reasons as to why the University needs to retain data about students for a significant period of time.
The most important reasons are outlined below:
You also have the right to complain to the UK Regulator the Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) if you believe your request has not been dealt with properly or you have a complaint to raise against the University for any other data protection related issue.
All students who handle personal information of which the University is responsible for must follow the requirements of the Data Protection Policy and other relevant guidance issued by the University.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/alumni/middlesex-university-alumni-association-privacy-notice:
This Privacy Notice relates to personal data processed by the Alumni Association in its work to build a more vibrant and engaged community.
The Alumni Association is the team within Middlesex University responsible for providing you with alumni benefits, invitations to networking opportunities and the latest news from Middlesex University.
We work in line with Middlesex University's Data Protection Policy .
In addition, the following statement sets out how the Alumni Association uses your data.
Middlesex University is a data controller and is registered with the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) as required under the Data Protection Act 2018 and the EU General Data Protection Regulation 2018.
The Alumni Association will only process your personal data in accordance with current Data Protection legislation.
Data is processed by staff who have received data protection training and in accordance with this Privacy Notice.
If you have any requests concerning your personal information or any queries with regard to this policy, email our Data Protection Officer .
The Alumni Association collects personal information from you both directly and indirectly.
Occasions when information is collected directly include:
We collect information indirectly:
Personal data held and processed by the Alumni Association may include the following:
We will keep safe any personal data that is shared with us; we will treat it with respect and only process it in line with the expectations set out in this privacy notice.
Developing a better understanding of our alumni through personal data allows us to make better decisions about how we engage with you most appropriately.
Data that we do store is used to underpin a full range of activities for our alumni; and to ensure that the way we communicate with you, for example sending event invitations or updates about alumni activities adhere to your communication preferences.
We also use digital tracking tools to monitor the impact of our communications – for example email tracking to record when an email we send to you has been opened, or you have clicked a particular link.
This provides us with metrics that enable us to gain a better understanding of what interests our alumni and send communications that are relevant and beneficial to you.
We will only ever share your data with third parties (external companies outside of the University) for the following reasons, or reasons specified to you elsewhere in this privacy notice
To exercise any of the above rights, send an email to the our Data Protection Officer .
We will keep basic details, contact details, education information, records of your communication preferences, event attendance and a record of any interaction you have had with the alumni association indefinitely.
We will undertake data cleansing on a periodic basis, in an attempt to ensure that the data we do hold about you is up to date.
If you believe the Alumni Association holds information about you that is factually incorrect, or you would like to request that we stop processing your data, email the Alumni Association and we will update your records accordingly.
Please note that we will still have to retain a record of your unique alumni ID number (usually your student number) to ensure that you are excluded from future processing.
Would you like to pay forward and become a mentor to Middlesex University students and recent graduates?
Stay part of our online community after you graduate, follow us on LinkedIn, register or update your details to stay

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/study/information-for-schools/privacy-policy-for-education-liaison-and-outreach:
At Middlesex University we take your privacy seriously and will only use your personal data as notified to you under this Privacy Policy.
This will include processing to coordinate our outreach work at your organisation, to facilitate your visit to our events and to provide information about our services, offers and information you have requested from us.
This is crucial to assess student eligibility in our activities, monitor participation, and effectively report and evaluate our activities to understand the student journey through the educational and professional career.
This Privacy Notice relates to personal data processed by the University’s Education Liaison and Outreach team in its work to build a more engaged and informed community.
The team provides information and advice to prospective students and their parents, guardians and teachers about applying to university and supporting decision making.
We work to raise awareness of higher education and to support progression, focusing in particular on life on Middlesex University by offering a range of presentations and interactive workshop sessions to assist students on matters such as making choices, preparing for student life, applying through UCAS and finance.
We work in line with Middlesex University’s Data Protection Policy and the following statements below set out how the Education Liaison and Outreach Team use your data.
Middlesex University is a data controller and is registered with the Information Commissioner’s Office as required under the Data Protection Act 2018, as well as all legislation enacted in the UK in respect of the protection of personal data ("Data Protection Legislation").
The Education Liaison and Outreach Team will only process your personal data in accordance with current Data Protection legislation as set out in this Privacy Policy.
Data is processed by staff who have received data protection training and in accordance with this Privacy Policy.
If you have any requests concerning your personal information or any queries with regard to this policy please
Middlesex University undertakes outreach activities with schools, colleges and communities across the UK, to support progression and widen participation into higher education.
This is part of our commitment as a university to open opportunities and transform lives, as well as part of government policy to widen participation in higher education, as overseen by the Office for Students .
We collect details of individuals taking part in our activities for the following reasons:
Under data protection law we are able to process this data because it is necessary for a task carried out in the public interest.
Education Liaison and Outreach collects personal information from you both directly and indirectly.
We collect information directly
We collect information indirectly
Personal data can be collected from the individual or through the school or college.
What is held and processed by Education Liaison and Outreach will vary depending on the type of type of engagement and activity undertaken by the individual and may include the following:
*Due to changes on the HEAT database, this information as collected by schools and colleges will be recorded on HEAT under the label ‘Sex’.
Data collected directly from participants as gender will be recorded in the same way.
More information can be found about HEAT, and how it is used, below.
We will keep safe any personal data that is shared with us; we will treat it with respect and only process it in line with the expectations set out in this Privacy Policy.
Developing a better understanding of our contacts personal data allows us to make better decisions about how we engage with you most appropriately.
Data that we do store is used to underpin a full range of activities for Education and Outreach; and to ensure that the way we communicate with you, for example sending event invitations, calls for scholarship applicants or updates about Education and Outreach activities adhere to your communication preferences.
This is done through our virtual newsletters and bespoke event communication.
We also use digital tracking tools to monitor the impact of our communications – for example email tracking to record when an email we send to you has been opened, or you have clicked on a particular link.
This provides us with metrics that enable us to gain a better understanding of what interests you and send communications that are relevant and beneficial to you.
On occasion your data may be shared with other relevant teams within Middlesex University that we are collaborating with in order to provide you with support services, relevant information about the university and its portfolio and invites to events and activities.
Middlesex University is a subscribing member of the HEAT Service and they are a data processor for the data we collect from you.
Our Contract with HEAT includes details about the organisational and technical measures they have put in place to secure the data we share with them.
All their services and Sub-processors are based in the UK.
The HEAT Track service may link your data to records held by the National Pupil Database, Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS), the Higher Education Statistics Authority (HESA) and the Individualised Learner Record, which collect information about students from schools, colleges and universities.
This is done to better understand how the project is helping you, and other young people.
For the purposes of data-linking HEAT are the Data Controller and this is covered by their own Privacy Notice.
Student data will be stored on a secure database (the Higher Education Access Tracker - HEAT ) and used to administer participation in widening access activities and projects.
This data may also be shared back with your school or college, with government and funding bodies* and our collaborative partners** to help run and evaluate the effectiveness of the activity.
The project and its partners will not use your record in a way that would affect you individually and we will not release data to anyone who is unauthorised.
The University does not, and will not, sell personal data to third party organisations.
*Government and funding bodies include: Office for Students, Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA), Department for Education, Local Authorities, UCAS, CFE Research.
HESA and HEAT may share your data as detailed in their own privacy notices, which are accessible at the links provided:
**Our collaborative partners include: Universities, Schools and Colleges, Higher Education Progression Partnership, Higher Education Access Tracker (HEAT) service subscribers, The Brilliant Club, Realising Opportunities, and London UniConnect organisations.
We will keep basic details, contact details, education information (when required), records of your communication preferences, records of event attendance and a record of any interaction you have with Education Liaison only whilst it is still necessary to administer our services to you.
This includes monitoring and assessing the impact of our activities in widening access to Higher Education.
We will retain records securely for the durations detailed below, and will review our retention periods in line with Information Commissioner’s Office guidance and other best practice in the sector.
All the data we collect is stored in the HEAT database, and the HEAT data retention policy is outlined below:
Under the terms of this Schedule the following is applied to personal data:
Where a participant has supplied a first name, last name, date of birth, and postcode and has not withdrawn or denied permission for their data to be included in research, their record is considered expired and should not be retained for longer than 15 years from:
a) the year in which they might be expected to enter HE, or
b) the date their record was created, or
c) when they last engaged in activity, whichever of these conditions is most recent.
Once expired, according to the criteria above, the record will appear in the Retention Filter to be reviewed by the collecting member organisation.
Where personal data is considered incomplete, i.e., the following has not been captured:
a) any or all of first name, last name, date of birth, postcode
b) and/or the data subject’s permission for inclusion in tracking research,
it will be considered expired after 7 years from the date the record was created.
It will appear in the Retention Filter, except where a data subject has taken part in an activity within the last 7 academic years.
We may retain and use your information as necessary to comply with your requests and our obligation to provide a service to you and your organisation or to implement our agreements.
Otherwise, we will delete your information upon request.
You also have the right to complain to the UK Regulator the Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) , if you believe you request has not been dealt with properly or you have a complaint to raise against the University for any other data protection related issue.
A complaint can be raised via the ICO’s website.
An individual has the right to ask the University what personal data we hold about them, and to ask for a copy of that information.
This is called making a Data Protection Subject Access Request.
A Subject Access Request should be submitted in writing via email to the Data Protection Officer or in hard copy to the postal address provided:
Data Protection Officer Middlesex University The Burroughs London NW4 4BT If you believe the Education Liaison and Outreach Team holds information about you that is factually incorrect, or you would like to request that we stop processing your data please email Education Liaison and Outreach and we will update your records accordingly.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/policies/academic-quality/learning-and-quality-enhancement-handbook-lqeh:
The academic quality and standards of Middlesex qualifications are governed by our Academic Regulations and quality assured via our policies and processes contained within our Learning and Quality Enhancement Handbook (LQEH).
Middlesex University is committed to ensuring that students have a high quality learning experience, and that the standards of qualifications are set at appropriate levels.
The student experience and positive student outcomes are supported via enhancement activities at Institutional, Faculty and Department level.
This section provides an overview to the University’s approach to quality assurance and enhancement, the University structures which support it, and their specific roles.
Abbreviations LQEH 2024-25
Glossary
Summary of changes
Section 1- An overview of quality assurance and enhancement activity at Middlesex University
Guidance 1(i) Local Academic Committees (for faculties and other areas that deliver academic provision)
Section-2 Approval for programme validation and review events
Appendix 2a Academic Provision Proposal Form
Appendix-2b Course Template
Appendix-2c Extension form
Appendix 2d Programme closure form
Appendix 2e Programme suspension form
Appendix 2f  Existing collaborative programme at new site proposal form
Appendix 2g Addition of existing collaborative programme at existing collaborative site
Appendix 2h Site closure form
Appendix 2i - Curriculum Business Case
Appendix 2j - Curriculum Business Case for collaborative partners
Section 3 Programme validation review and modifications
Guidance-3i The purpose of programme validation and programme review
Guidance-3ii-Panel-Officer
Guidance 3iii-Documentation for a validation or review event
Guidance-3iv Validation and Review Guidance for Distance Education
Guidance-3v Roles and responsibilities of Panel Members
Guidance-3vi Student involvement in validation and review events
Guidance-3vii Equality, Diversity and inclusivity in the curriculum (Inclusive curriculum)
Guidance-3viii External Assessors – Criteria for Appointment and Fee Information
Guidance-3ix A guide for apprenticeship validation panels
Guidance-3x Guidance for External Assessors when considering the validation of a programme at an overseas campus
Guidance-3xi Guidance for External Assessors when considering the validation of a programme by Faculty Committee
Guidance 3xii Programme Leader
Guidance 3xiii Writing a programme specification / programme information form (PIF)
Guidance 3xiv 2031 Learning Framework Operationalising the Principles for Undergraduate Programmes
Guidance-3xv 2031 Learning Framework Operationalising the Principles: for Postgraduate Taught Programmes
Guidance-3xvi Ethics in the curriculum
Guidance-3xvii Research Ethics
Guidance 3xviii Writing a module narrative / module information form (MIF)
Guidance 3xix Designing a module reading list for in-house, franchised & joint programmes
Guidance-3xx Designing a module reading list for validated programmes
Guidance 3xxi Guidance for the Design of Distance Education
Guidance-3xxii Academic Advising
Guidance 3xxiii 2031 Learning Framework Operationalising the Principles for Higher and Degree Apprenticeship Programmes
Guidance 3xxiv Procedure for mapping a new or existing Middlesex University programme to an apprenticeship standard
Guidance-3xxv Non-Credit Bearing Courses (NCBCs)
Guidance-3xxvi Making changes to published information
Guidance 3xxvii - Glossary of 2031 Learning Framework Terms
Appendix 3a Officer paper
Appendix 3b Overview document template
Appendix 3c Critical Review Document
Appendix 3d (In-house) Validation / Review report template
Appendix 3da (Full) Validation Review report template
Appendix 3e Confirmation of a validation or review
Appendix 3f Programme Specification
Appendix 3g External Assessor Appointment Form
Appendix 3h - no longer in use
Appendix 3i Resource Statement for a programme to be delivered at an overseas campus or partner site
Appendix 3j Apprenticeships standard mapping document
Appendix 3k - Programme Adjustment Form
Appendix 3l New module / module narrative template
Appendix 3m Programme handbook – in-house PG
Appendix 3m Programme handbook – in-house UG
Appendix 3n Programme handbook – Franchised
Appendix 3o Programme handbook – Joint
Appendix 3p Programme handbook – Validated
Appendix 3q Programme assessment schedule
Appendix 3r Programme change form
Appendix 3s Module change form
Appendix 3t- No longer in use
Appendix 3y Programme Team DE module validation sign off form
External Examiners (EEs) are central to Middlesex University’s quality assurance and enhancement procedures.
All programmes/modules will have an external examiner allocated to them; this includes in-house, campus, partner provision and applies to all FHEQ Levels.
The External Examiner Team based within the Academic Quality Service (AQS) has overall responsibility and oversight of the external examining process.
LQEH Section 4 provides an overview of the external examiner process in the University.
This outlines the processes for the nomination, appointment, induction and right to work of EEs for in-house, campus and collaborative partner provision.
Guidance documents 4i, 4iii, 4 iv and 4 v provide guidance and support for those completing the nomination form for new external examiners.
4ii gives guidance on the information that should be sent to the new EE.
Guidance 4vi gives guidance on the Assessment Conversation for Equity and Enhancement (ACEE) and Guidance vii provides guidance on the student sample to be reviewed by the EE.
Appendices: Appendix 4a is the template to use for the nomination of a new external examiner.
Appendix 4, b, d, e, f are the external examiner annual report templates that should be completed as appropriate.
These are for use by both in-house EEs and collaborative partner EEs.
Appendix C is a suggested meeting guide form for ACEE meetings with EEs.
Section 4 External Examiners
Guidance 4i Criteria for approval of External Examiners for programmes
Guidance 4ii Checklist of documentation to go to External Examiner
Guidance 4iii Approval of external examiners for Collaborative partners who do not meet criterion relating to UK Higher Education experience
Guidance 4iv Roles and responsibilities of a Chief External Examiner (CEE) for Collaborative Partners
Guidance-4v Arrangements for the Shadowing and Mentoring of External Examiners
Guidance 4vi Assessment Conversation for Equity and Enhancement (ACEE)
Guidance-4vii Student sample for review by External Examiner (EE)
Appendix 4a-In Middlesex University External Examiner Nomination Form – Taught Provision 2024/2025
Appendix 4b- External Examiners’ annual report template (Programme Assessment Board)
Appendix 4c : Assessment Conversation for Equity and Enhancement (ACEE) – Meeting record (Suggested Guide Form)
Appendix 4d External Examiner Report – Attendance at additional Programme Boards
Appendix 4e Chief External Examiners report
Appendix 4f- External Assessor’s Annual Report form
Appendix 4g- Assessment Submission Form 2024-25
Appendix 4h Moderation Form Student Assessed Work
Section-5-Collaborations-With-Other-Institutions
Guidance 5i: Checklist for the development and launch of a collaborative programme
Guidance-5ii-Responsibilities-of-Link-Tutors
Guidance-5iii-The-Language-of-Tuition-and-or-Assessment
Guidance-5iv Collaborative Programmes Comparison Table
Guidance-5vi Operational Calendar for Link Tutors
Guidance 5vii Serious Problems and complaints procedure in collaborative partnerships
Guidance 5viii Programme Planning Leading to Dual Awards, Joint Awards or Double Degrees
Guidance 5ix Administrative and Operational Procedures for Collaborative Program
Guidance 5x Not in use
Guidance 5xi Not in use
Guidance-5xii Institutional Approval Visit Agenda
Guidance- 5xiii Assessment and regulations arrangements for validated programmes not adopting wholly MU regulations
Guidance 5xiv Management of Dual Doctoral Research Programmes Procedure
Appendix 5a Institutional Approval Preliminary enquiries form
Appendix 5b institutional Approval Commentary Form
Appendix 5c Institutional Approval report template
Appendix 5d Institutional Re-Approval Commentary Form
Appendix 5e Site visit report template
Appendix 5f Institutional review report template
Middlesex University programmes may also be accredited or recognised by a range of Professional, Statutory and/or Regulatory Bodies (PSRBs).
This section outlines the responsibilities and procedure for accreditation events, reviews, and reporting outcomes to maintain the central register.
Oversight of all PSRB accreditations is maintained by the Assurance committee.
Section 6 – Professional, statutory and or regulatory bodies
Educational Monitoring and Enhancement (EME) is the process for monitoring and assuring the quality of your provision and the student experience.
EME is the analysis and reflection of appropriate data and key internal, and external stakeholder input (admissions/ enrolment, student continuation and achievement, cohort demographic characteristics, graduate destinations, student satisfaction, external examiners and student feedback).
EME is applicable for all taught provision (at Hendon and overseas campuses) and collaborative partner provision.
Collaborative Partners must complete Educational Monitoring and Enhancement Reports (EMERs) on an annual basis
EME activity is owned by each faculty/ department/ school and is reported into the Faculty Quality Committees and the University Teaching and Learning Committee.
AQS oversee the management and operation of the process and provide guidance as appropriate.
The main LQEH section 7 provides an overview of the operation of the EME and Collaborative Partner EME process.
This outlines the purpose and format of EME and indicates the different stages, the timescales and deadlines for the process.
Guidance documents 7i, 7ii, 7iii and 7iv provide guidance and support for collaborative partners completing the EMER document and EME.
This includes detail on how to complete the report, what evidence to consider to create appropriate actions, and an example of a completed EMER.
Template documents: There is a ‘standard’ EMER template which is circulated to each collaborative partner, as well as different templates for partnerships that are closing.
Section 7 Educational Monitoring and Enhancement
Guidance 7i Writing Educational Monitoring and Enhancement Reports – Support for authors
Guidance 7ii Considering Data and Evidence
Guidance 7iii Example Completed Educational Monitoring and Enhancement Report
Guidance 7iv - Evidence Sources for Educational Monitoring and Enhancement
Appendix 7a Collaborative Validated Partner Educational Monitoring and Enhancement Report Template
Appendix 7b Collaborative Franchised / Joint Partner Educational Monitoring and Enhancement Report Template
Appendix 7c Collaborative Partner Educational Monitoring and Enhancement Report template - for Collaborative partners which are closing
To ensure the quality of the student learning experience the University may carry out internal audits and reviews on an ad hoc basis, as required by the Assurance Committee.
These internal audits may be carried out in the response to normal review processes identifying the need for additional scrutiny or to specific concerns raised internally or externally.
Concerns about academic quality and standards can also be raised outside of the normal processes for oversight and monitoring.
This section details the processes for internal audits and reviews (including the use and selection of External Assessors), and raising a concern regarding quality and standards.
Section 8 - Raising concerns and Internal audits
Appendix 8a - Raising a concern regarding quality and standards
Middlesex University is committed to enhancing the experience of students across our Global community.
It is important that opportunities are provided for our students to be involved in quality assurance and enhancement processes.
We aim to strengthen our student voice processes and co-leadership as an approach across our global Middlesex community.
Section 9 provides details of the main mechanisms for student engagement in quality assurance and enhancement, covering student surveys and representation, and the requirements and expectations for Hendon, Overseas Campuses and Collaborative partners.
Section 9 - Student Engagement in Quality Assurance and Enhancement
Section 9a Student representation
Section 9b Student surveys
Section 9c Student Engagement for Collaborative Partners
Appendix 9a Student Voice Leader role descriptor
Appendix 9b Programme Voice Group Operational procedures
Appendix 9c Principles of Student Voice in the Student Voice Cycle
Appendix 9d Programme Voice Group TOR and membership 2023-24
Appendix 9e Programme Voice Group Chair role descriptor
Appendix 9f Programme Voice Group Officer role descriptor
Appendix 9g Programme Voice Group Code of conduct
Appendix 9h Student Voice Leader Code of conduct
Appendix 9i Guide for hosting online / virtual meetings
Appendix 9j Student Surveys operational procedures
Template 9i Programme Voice Group Draft agenda
Template 9ii Programme Voice Group Minutes template
Section10 Approval monitoring and review of articulation agreements
Guidance 10i Recognition of category 1 institutions – evidence to be provided by the sponsor
Guidance 10ii Endorsement of EU and overseas quality assurance bodies / agencies in articulating institutions
Guidance 10iii Monitoring category 1 institutions
Guidance 10iv Link contacts role and responsibilities
Guidance10v Articulation mapping proforma programme level
Guidance 10vi Articulation mapping proforma module level
Appendix 10a Institutional recognition form
Appendix 10b Template for Articulation Agreements - Institution
Appendix 10c Template for articulating progression agreement
Appendix 10d Template for articulation agreement – awarding body
Section 11 - Certificate, Diploma supplements and Graduation
Appendix 11a Examples of certificates
Middlesex University has a responsibility to ensure that our collaborative partners are aware of their obligations when promoting and marketing programmes that are awarded by the University.
This section details the processes and various approvals required by the collaborative partner from the University before marketing and promotion may commence.
We expect full compliance with all requirements of the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA), this is also detailed within this section.
Section 12 - Publicity and Marketing
Middlesex University has campuses in London (Hendon), Dubai and Mauritius.
As a global institution the University continually considers the opportunities for further overseas campuses and has a robust process for setting them up as detailed in this section.
Provision at overseas campuses must meet all the same requirements for quality assurance and enhancement as they do for our Hendon campuses.
Students who study at any of our campuses can expect an equivalent high quality learning experience and to gain a UK qualification which is recognised globally.
The main LQEH section 13 provides an overview of the process for setting up a new campus from the proposal needing to be submitted the University Executive and Board of Governors, through to the approval of programmes and student facilities, as well as the ongoing quality arrangements once the campus is established.
Guidance documents 13(i) and 13 (ii), provide guidance and support for the management of academic programmes and quality assurance and enhancement arrangements for overseas campuses.
Section 13 - Opening new Middlesex University overseas campuses
Guidance 13i Guidelines for working with Middlesex University Overseas campuses (Academic Programmes)
Guidance 13ii Review of the implementation of quality assurance and enhancement
Middlesex University is able to recognise learning a student has taken with another organisation and count that towards one of its awards.
This recognition can be of formal credit achieved with another higher education provider (UK or internationally), regulated qualifications such as those overseen by Ofqual and learning through the workplace.
The University uses its academic credit framework to evaluate and quantify such learning in terms of credit points at a particular level.
Section 14 Accreditation of academic credit
Appendix 14a RPL Assessment plan template
Appendix14b Accreditation initial approval information form
Appendix14c Accreditation proposal form
Appendix14d Accreditation proposal assessment form
Appendix 14e Re-accreditation initial approval form
Appendix 14f Re-accreditation proposal form
Appendix 14g Re-accreditation proposal assessment form
Appendix 14h no longer in use
Appendix 14i Annual Monitoring Report
Appendix 14j Accreditation handbook
Procedural Guidance for Postgraduate Research Study 2024-25.pdf
Appendix 15a Supervisory record form
15b.1 – Review Stage 1 form (MPhil/PhD )
15b.2 – Review Stage 1 form (Professional Doctorates)
Appendix 15c Review Stage 2 form
Appendix 15d Writing up form (pre-2022 admission)
Appendix 15e Application for extension to candidature period (pre-2022 admission )
Appendix 15f Application of exam panel
Appendix 15g Candidate declaration form
Appendix 15h erepository form
Appendix 15i Preliminary examination form
Appendix 15j Recommendation of the Examiners
Appendix 15k Interruption of studies
The Discover Uni Record is a comparable set of standardised information about undergraduate programmes.
It is designed to aid prospective students in making their Higher Education choices and is published across the Discover Uni and provider websites.
Middlesex University is required to submit Discover Uni data records to HESA via their submission system.
Section 16 outlines the information required and the process used at Middlesex University for collecting the data.
Section 16 - Discover Uni guidance for staff
Appendix 16a - Teaching & Learning Definitions
Appendix 16b-Definitions of assessment methods

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/policies/complaints:
Whether you are a student, graduate, staff member or a member of the public we take your complaints seriously and treat you with respect.
You will never be disadvantaged as a result of raising a genuine concern and we treat all parties fairly in our investigations.
Our complaints procedures are designed to be accessible to everyone who may need them.
Anonymous details of the number of formal complaints received and the subject and outcomes of complaints are included in annual reports made to our senior management and governors for quality purposes and equality monitoring.
Applicants to courses whose complaint relates to their application to study at the University please use the Applicants complaints and appeals procedure .
For further information contact Jamie Popplewell, Head of Admissions & Student Visa Compliance .
Students are directed to the University’s Student Complaint Procedure.
Former students may use this procedure where their complaint relates to their student experience.
In such cases, former students are directed to the Student Complaints and Grievance Procedures (but noting the appropriate timescales.
See section 3 for full details).
For further information, please email the Student and Legal Affairs team .
If you are studying with one of our partner institutions and would like to make a complaint you should use the partner's internal complaints procedure first.
If you are unhappy with the result and have exhausted the partner institution internal complaints procedures, you can, in certain circumstances, request a University-Level Review make a complaint to us as a current student using the University’s Student Complaints and Grievance Procedure.
(see Appendix A for full details).
For further information contact the academic partnerships operations team .
Staff complaints are dealt with under the University’s Staff Grievance Procedure.
For further information contact John McGuinness, Director of HR .
Complaints in relation to the recruitment or selection of staff are covered by the Recruitment and Selection Procedure.
For further information contact the HR Shared Services team .
Complaints about the activities of the Students’ Union should be addressed directly to the Students’ Union.
Persons or organisations external to the University should use the External complaints procedure .
For further information contact Teresa Kelly, Clerk to the Board of Governors .
If you are an employee of the University and have a genuine concern that there are reasonable grounds for believing that wrongdoing has taken place, or is likely to take place, at the University and that you reasonably believe that it would be in the public interest to disclose it, then you may wish to consider raising your concerns by following the University’s Whistleblowing/Confidential Reporting Policy and Procedure .

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/policies/academic-appeals:
Academic appeal form and guidance for students attending Middlesex University or programmes validated by Middlesex University at a Partner Institutions.
An Academic Appeal is a formal request that a decision made by an Assessment Board or Programme Progression Board (or equivalent at a Partner Institution) is reconsidered because of special circumstances.
Postgraduate Researchers: please refer to the Postgraduate Research Degrees Regulations as research programmes have their own appeal procedures.
Middlesex has a number of support mechanisms to help you and you should make use of these at the earliest opportunity.
These include the process for submitting extenuating circumstances and deferral requests to the Assessment Board before it meets and by the published deadline.
Information about other support available, including academic and learning support, counselling, the disability and dyslexia service, learning enhancement, finance, student welfare advice, Student’s Union can be found on MyMDX.
However, occasionally things go wrong, or you experience circumstances beyond your control which impact on your assessment, progression or final award.
The appeals process is intended for the few occasions where no resolution or remedy has been possible at an earlier stage.
If your appeal is successful, the Assessment Board will reconsider its original decision taking full account of your appeal (although you should note that, having fully considered your appeal, the Board is not obliged to change its original decision).
Two important points to note before submitting your appeal:
Academic Appeal Form - Undergraduate and Postgraduate Taught students, use this form to request consideration of your appeal.
Postgraduate Research Academic Appeal Form - Postgraduate Research students, use this form to request consideration of your appeal.
“Extenuating or mitigating circumstances where, for good reason, the Assessment Board was not made aware of a significant factor relating to the assessment of a student when it made its original decision.”
The University gives students opportunities to submit extenuating circumstances as soon as they are known and before the Assessment Board makes a decision.
This is to ensure that support is available where possible and that there is fairness to all students as well as to you as an individual.
The overall aim is to assess all students on equal terms.
The University takes the view that if a student does not declare extenuating circumstances as soon as they become aware of them, they cannot be taken into account later on unless there are compelling reasons for them not to have been declared at the proper time.
You must therefore be able to present a case to show why it would have been unreasonable for the University to expect you to disclose the circumstances at the time of the assessment, ie,
That the extenuating circumstances which you believe affected your assessment, progression or award were unknown or unrecognised by you at the time of the assessment.
or
If the circumstances were known to you, why you chose not to disclose them at the time.
If your case is accepted, your extenuating circumstances will only be considered on the following grounds:
Firstly you should note that your grade would not be raised.
Work is marked on its merits alone.
This is partly because extenuating circumstances cannot be quantified.
Where a student has extenuating circumstances, the Assessment Board may consider one of the following:
Another appropriate remedy
“That there was a material error, either in the conduct of the assessment itself, or in the proceedings of the Assessment Board, which significantly affected the Assessment Board’s decision.”
A 'material error' is an evidenced error that is both relevant and significant to the decision by the Assessment Board in respect of your award or progression.
You must therefore be able to present a case to show that an error has been made, and the effect it has had on the Assessment Board’s decision.
“Grounds listed in the Academic Integrity and Misconduct regulations Section F4, following a penalty imposed for academic misconduct.”
In fairness to other students, penalties are normally greater than what would follow if you had merely failed the assessment.
Penalties will normally affect the grade for the whole module and not just the piece of work in question.
If you have received a penalty following an investigation of your work for academic misconduct (for example, plagiarism in coursework, cheating in an examination, etc) you can appeal if:
You must be able to present a case to show why it would have been unreasonable for the University to expect you to disclose the evidence at an earlier stage, ie, when you had the opportunity to respond to the allegation of academic misconduct or, if the circumstances were known to you, why you chose not to disclose them at the time.
And/or
You must indicate which procedures were not followed and why you think that the decision would have been different if they had been followed.
Academic judgement is based on the need of the Assessment Board to be consistent in its policy towards all students in the cohort.
Consistency is maintained through moderation of the cohort’s work by University staff and scrutiny by External Examiners.
The Board will already have used its discretion in this way if:
You should continue as if you had not submitted an appeal: ie) the Assessment Board's original decision remains in force until the Board is notified by the Secretary to Academic Board that the decision is cancelled.
You should therefore meet any requirements for a referral, resubmission of work or resitting an examination, until the appeal is completed.
This will not influence the outcome of the appeal.
You are responsible for the consequences of not complying with the original decision of the Assessment Board if the outcome to your appeal is not in your favour.
You will normally be permitted by an Assessment Board to continue to the next stage of your studies if you have complied with all the University and Programme of Study regulations apart from the decision you have appealed against.
This is solely to help ensure that, if your appeal is upheld, you would not be academically disadvantaged.
This entitlement will continue until the date of the letter formally notifying you of the outcome to your appeal.
The letter will tell you whether you would be entitled to continue on the programme.
However there are exceptions to this permission and it is possible that the Assessment Board may not allow you to continue if
If you are applying for a job or further course of study, you may inform your prospective employer or university of the classification and grades you have been awarded by the Assessment Board, but may add that you have submitted an appeal, and the decision may be reviewed.
However, do not assume that your appeal will be successful.
You may attend the Graduation Ceremony if you have graduated and accepted an invitation.
(No announcement or publication at the Ceremony mentions the classification of award).
If you are unsure, you can ask for advice through UniHelp (MyMDX link) .
Your appeal application will be checked to ensure
If your appeal application does not meet the above requirements, you will be notified by email that the appeal has been rejected.
If your appeal application has been completed appropriately, two members of Academic Registry Appeals Team will initially consider and investigate your case.
If your appeal concerns extenuating circumstances:
If your appeal is that a material error had occurred associated with the calculation of marks or award classification or award title:
If your appeal is against a penalty for academic misconduct:
No members of staff who were the decision-makers in your academic misconduct case will be involved with your appeal
For appeals against a penalty for academic misconduct, if the Senior Manager of the University agrees that the appeal is Justified or Partly Justified, they will refer the case back to the Academic Misconduct Office for action.
You will be notified by email of this outcome to your appeal and the Academic Misconduct Office will contact you in due course about what action is being taken, which may include holding an Academic Misconduct Hearing.
You will receive regular communication from the Appeals Team about the progress of your appeal.
You will be informed in writing of the outcome to your appeal.
If you are dissatisfied with the outcome to your appeal, you may request a Review of the appeal process.
See “ What happens if my appeal is Not Justified?
”
In normal circumstances, we aim to complete the whole process within 90 calendar days of receipt of your full appeal.
There will occasionally be circumstances when, for good reason, the University will need to extend the timeframe.
If this happens, you will be notified by email.
No - any change in the Assessment Board's decision will not disadvantage you.
Your appeal is kept as confidential as possible and within the University.
While the investigation is being carried out, the following people may be informed:
Your appeal case will be kept on confidential file for up to six years, following which it may be destroyed.
Members of the Faculties/School’s staff are unable to discuss your appeal with you while it is being processed, but if you would like information on its progress, please contact the Appeals Team.
If you would like advice about your status or progress as a student while your appeal is being considered, please contact UniHelp or the Student Union .
If the people considering your case decide that there are grounds for appeal, the Chair of the Assessment Board may be invited to request the Board to review its decision in the light of the information in your appeal case file.
If the Chair agrees that this is appropriate action you would be notified by email of this outcome to your appeal.
The Board is obliged to take full consideration of your case and will either change its original decision in your favour or decide that no change is made to the original decision.
If the Board agrees a change is to be made, this is called an Informal Settlement as it did not require an Appeal Panel to consider the case.
An Appeal Panel will only be held if an Informal Settlement could not be reached.
Following the decision that you do have grounds for appeal, an Appeal Panel is held only if an Informal Settlement cannot be reached.
The Panel is called to clarify evidence by questioning those who have submitted it, including yourself, enabling the Appeal Panel to reach a just decision.
If a Panel is to be called, you will be invited to attend and will be sent all the relevant information.
The Panel normally consists of three senior members of staff from as many Schools as practical and one Student Union representative.
No-one is eligible to be a Panel member who has taught you or is likely to teach or assess you.
You can be accompanied by a companion, bring and question witnesses, and comment on the evidence.
If the Appeal Panel finds that an injustice appears to have been caused to you, it will submit all its findings for the Assessment Board's consideration and require the Board to review its decision.
The Board is obliged to take full consideration of your case and would either change its original decision in your favour or decide that no change is made to the original decision.
The original decision of the Assessment Board will be confirmed, and you will receive a letter informing you of the outcome to your appeal and the reasons behind the decision that it is Not Justified.
The letter will include information about the opportunity to request a Review of your appeal if:
Dissatisfaction with the outcome of your appeal is not alone a valid reason for requesting a Review .
Within 10 working days of receiving the decision that your appeal is Not Justified, you can request a Review if:
Dissatisfaction with the outcome of your appeal is not alone a valid reason for requesting a Review.
The Reviewer will be a senior member of University staff who is neutral to you and has not previously been involved with the appeal case.
The Review will include consideration of:
If you were to be dissatisfied with the outcome to the Review, you could take the matter further by requesting a review of the University’s handling of your appeal by the ombudsman for higher education: the Office of the Independent Adjudicator for Higher Education (OIA).
All this information in greater detail will be in the letter of outcome sent to you following your appeal.
If you do not request a Review within 10 working days of the letter giving the outcome to your appeal, you can request a Completion of Procedures Letter which will enable you to request a review of the appeal by the OIA.
You would need to present the OIA with exceptional reasons for not requesting the University to review your appeal first.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/policies/ihra-definition-of-antisemitism:
22-03-2021
The Middlesex University Board of Governors has unanimously agreed that the institution will adopt in full the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance (IHRA) working definition of antisemitism* with immediate effect.
The decision has the full support of the Students’ Union (MDXSU).
In recent weeks the University has explored the definition with students and staff as well with their Students’ Union, the University Jewish Society and local and national Jewish and multi faith groups.
Commenting on the move, Vice-Chancellor of Middlesex University, Professor Nic Beech, said:
“Middlesex is committed to equality, diversity and inclusion and has a long history of promoting anti-racism.
We are proud to be one of the most diverse universities in the UK and to be situated in the heart of the largest Jewish population in Europe.
“I am extremely grateful to local and national Jewish groups who have spent time with me and colleagues to increase our understanding of the definition.
While there have been criticisms that adopting the definition could limit academic freedom, our view is that the definition can be applied in a way which enables dialogue and discussion within and between faiths.
Our commitment to anti-racism is equalled by our defence of academic free speech.”
“Racism in all its forms is wrong.
We strive to be a place where everyone is safe and free to flourish without fear of discrimination.
In order to maximise the value of the IHRA definition we will need to embed it meaningfully across the University.
This is not the end point but rather the beginning in how we hope to continue working with the Jewish community as well as other communities across our diverse and deep global network for the benefit of all.”
The Middlesex University Students’ Union expressed their support for the University’s decision.
Tahmina Choudhury, Vice President of the Students’ Union said:
“Whilst this definition is not without criticism or universal, we accept that it is the most accepted definition of antisemitism within the Jewish Community.
We also believe that in order to tackle an issue you need to be able to define it and we therefore support this decision.
“We are proud to represent students from many faith backgrounds as one of the most diverse universities in the world.
We would therefore welcome the University committing to positive action to tackle all forms of faith based prejudice.”
The full IHRA definition is available at: https://www.holocaustremembrance.com/resources/working-definitions-charters/working-definition-antisemitism

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/policies/access-agreement:
Access and Participation Plans are renewed and formally approved each year by the Office for Students.
Access and Participation plan 2025-28
Access and participation plan summary 2025
2023/24 Annual Fee Summary
2020-25 Access and Participation Plan update
2020-25 Access and Participation Plan update summary
2020-25 Access and Participation Plan
2019-20 Access and Participation Plan
2019-20 Access and Participation Plan Monitoring Provider Impact Report

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/policies/transparency-return:
Updated: 30 October 2023
The information published in the below file includes data tables relating to the attainment of 2021-22 qualifiers.
This worksheet contains table 1a which relates to attainment at Middlesex University.
This table presents the percentage of classified first degrees at grade 2:1 or above by characteristics for 2021-22 qualifiers.
This worksheet contains table 1b which relates to attainment at Middlesex University.
This table presents detailed information on attainment by characteristics for 2021-22 qualifiers.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/policies/university-ethics-framework:
Middlesex University is committed to operating in an ethical way in every area to ensure the highest possible standards of decision-making and accountability.
Our Ethics Framework has been set out by the University Ethics Committee, which oversees all aspects of ethical matters at the University and reports to the Assurance Committee.
Read the Framework Statement (PDF) , approved by the Assurance Committee in May 2019 and is due for review in May 2024.

New sentences found on https://mdx.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/student-charter:
At Middlesex, our staff, students and Students' Union work in partnership.
We have a shared commitment to build a community that supports our students to transform their potential into success.
This Charter sets out the characteristics of that community.
The Charter sets out how we work together to deliver an exceptional student experience through inspiring teaching and impactful research.
You can find more comprehensive information in our policies and procedures .
We make sure the Charter stays relevant through bi-annual review – both by the University’s Academic Board and the Student Union Voice Conference .