# Site: https://www.napier.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 440
# --------

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk:
Read our guide
Students, staff and alumni are gearing up for a busy month of performances
97%
Graduates in work or further study
Postgraduate study
Apply now
Campaign relaunch
We celebrate the remarkable contributions of our Napier community across all fields
All you need to know about ENUIC
Information on Edinburgh Napier University's on-campus pathway college for international students.
Edinburgh Napier University is proud to be the #1 modern university in Scotland (Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2025) and the leading university in Edinburgh for student satisfaction for five years in a row (National Student Survey 2020–2024).
We are also recognised as the top Scottish modern university for research power and impact (Research Excellence Framework 2021).
We pride ourselves on being the home of difference makers—an enterprising and innovative community, renowned internationally, with an unrivalled student learning experience.
With more than 250 undergraduate and postgraduate courses and nearly 20,000 students from over 145 countries studying on campus in Edinburgh, online and at partner universities worldwide, we deliver meaningful, difference-making education and research for a rapidly changing world.
26 August 2025
11 August 2025
5 August 2025
Edinburgh Napier University is a registered Scottish charity.
Registration SC018373
© 2025 Edinburgh Napier University

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/work-with-us:
As a forward-thinking institution, we offer exceptional careers to both colleagues in professional services roles and academics conduct ing world-class research and education.
We support ambition, recognise achievement and encourage innovation in every one of our people.
Whatever your role, working at Edinburgh Napier is beyond a job, it’s a future full of progression and reward.
Our fair work statement can be found here .
External Examiners are a vital part of supporting quality and standards of our learning, teaching and assessment at ENU.
Find out more about our university, our programme assessment processes and how external examiners contribute to our goals and values.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/our-location/our-campuses/libraries-and-heritage-collections:
Our three libraries provide physical and online resources to support students and staff at Edinburgh Napier University.
We have a variety of quiet or social study spaces with computers, loanable laptops and 24/7 access available.
We welcome visitors and special services are available for External Members .
Start your search at LibrarySearch to find millions of results in our libraries.
Our collection includes books and multimedia on the shelf in three libraries, as well as hundreds of subscription databases (including ebooks, ejournals, recorded television and e-conference proceedings).
Edinburgh Napier University has a number of outstanding collections which explore, explain and engage with the cultural history of Edinburgh and beyond.
Our War Poets Collection celebrates the history of Craiglockhart Campus.
Students always comment on the helpful and friendly services we provide  - "I could not have had a better experience" (NSS).
Find out more about our 24 hour services, millions of online resources, and welcoming variety of places to study.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/people:
Search for a surname in the box below and then click "Search" to search for Staff.
School of Computing Engineering and the Built Environment
Lecturer School of Computing Engineering and the Built Environment
0131 455 2382
A.Khokhar@napier.ac.uk
Research Student School of Applied Sciences
A.Gilfillan@napier.ac.uk
Lecturer Business School
0131 455 3818
A.Huzooree@napier.ac.uk
Business School
Associate Professor School of Computing Engineering and the Built Environment
0131 455 2586
A.Kerrouche@napier.ac.uk
research student School of Computing Engineering and the Built Environment
A.MunozHerraez@napier.ac.uk
From:
To:

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses:
Find the course that’s right for you at Edinburgh Napier University.
If you need help choosing, jump into our study areas to discover the subject that’s right for you.
> Do you want to earn while you learn?
Discover our Graduate Apprenticeship courses.
> Are you looking to continue your professional development?
Explore our short courses .
> Find out how to become a postgraduate researcher .
Use the filters below to see courses starting in September or January.
Sorry, no matches for this filter

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas:
Helping people get the careers they love is what we do.
Jump into one of our study areas and find out how we can unlock your future.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/accounting-and-finance:
Study at a top 10 UK Modern University for Accounting & Finance.
It all adds up.
All our programmes are fully accredited by major accounting institutes and provide significant exemptions from professional exams with ACCA, CIMA, CIPFA, ICAEW, ICAS,
Our staff are highly skilled and knowledgeable with varied research and professional backgrounds to help you with your learning.
Our Professional Advisory Group drawn from employers, professional bodies and past graduates has helped develop our programme provision to offer opportunities such as internships to students.
All our programmes are designed to develop your general business skills that will serve you well no matter what career path you go down on.
And we are in the top 5 for student satisfaction for Accounting, so Edinburgh Napier is a great place to launch your professional career (Complete University Guide 2023).
Use the dropdown menu to select your preferred course level.
Students on our Financial Services programme have the option to complete a 24-week work placement in year three.
It’s the ideal way to glean real insight into the industry and ensure that you are work-ready.
We focus on preparing you for the modern business world.
Our lecturers know what skills you need to build a career in accountancy and financial services today.
You'll go beyond what’s in the textbooks to look at accounting techniques and policies in a very broad range of areas.
Law, economics and other related fields will also get a look-in.
And you’ll get hands-on experience of using IT systems and software relevant to your future career.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/acting:
We'll play our part.
Get your career off to a flying start with the opportunity to present your own fully supported show at the world’s largest arts festival, the Edinburgh Festival Fringe.
Our courses are designed to help you make the transition from student to independent freelance artist as smooth as possible.
You’ll leave the course with a career action plan, a show reel and significant acting experience.
We offer the only combined actor-training and English degree in the UK.
Our aim is both to deliver a truly unique learning experience, and to take full advantage of our location in one of the most culturally vibrant cities in the world.
You'll have the opportunity to present your own fully-supported show at the world’s largest arts festival, the Edinburgh Festival Fringe.
Whether you want to be an actor, producer or educator, we have the course for you.
Our students are respected in the industry, and our graduates have been nominated for Olivier and Ian Charleson awards, worked in the West End, at Dundee Rep, Lyceum Theatre and Bard in the Botanics, as well as appearing on BBC, Channel 4 and ITV.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/biological-sciences:
Explore your interest in biology by studying with us.
We are #1 for teaching in the UK for Biosciences (NSS, 2024).
We provide you with the specialised skills, which will give you a boost with employers, and opportunities to gain placements to develop work experience.
All our lecturers are active in their research areas and bring their enthusiasm for their specialism into the class.
We have a range of courses to suit your interests across the diversity of biology and we are proud to have been ranked second equal in Scotland for student satisfaction (Complete University Guide 2023).
We are also ranked as a Top 10 Modern University for Biology (The Guardian University Guide, 2025)
Nothing beats hands-on experience.
Putting theory into practice builds confidence and gets you work ready.
So work placements are a valuable part of most of our Biological Sciences courses.
We have excellent links to local and international companies to give you a wide range of placement opportunities.
We also run the highly successful Getting Inside Scheme; this can give you an internship with a company over the summer for invaluable work experience.
There is the opportunity to study abroad as part of this course, we have links with a partner university in Denmark.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/building-and-surveying:
Make it.
According to the Research Excellence Framework in 2021, we are the number one Scottish Modern University for research in Built Environment and Planning.
We are the top UK Modern university for Building.
(The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024)
All students studying our Surveying courses will have the opportunity to spend their entire third year on a credit-bearing work placement.
Our surveying courses are accredited by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS).
The Architectural Technology course is accredited by both the Chartered Institute of Building (CIOB) and the Chartered Institute of Architectural Technologists (CIAT), and also host the CIAT Centre of Excellence.
Industry experience is an important part of preparing yourself for the built environment and we actively encourage and support you in finding placement opportunities independently.
This has given many of our past students the opportunity to gain work experience abroad and in the UK, and secured graduate jobs after completing their course.
The world is changing.
New buildings are constantly appearing and historic ones are in need of restoration.
Our courses are aimed at students with an interest in the built environment around us, who are able to identify problems and find innovative solutions that make a real impact.
We will equip you with the academic and professional skills required to develop a professional career in Architectural Technology and Surveying.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/business-and-management:
Study at the #1 Modern University in Scotland (Times WUR 2024).
The Business School is AACSB accredited - one of fewer than 6% of all global institutions offering Business degrees.
Our on-campus courses are flexible, allowing you to focus on specialist areas and explore possibilities for a joint degree.
Our start-up incubator, the Bright Red Triangle, is here to help you get your business idea off the ground.
Several of our courses include a six-month industry placement in the second trimester of year three.
Our Business School Placement team supports our students applying for placement opportunities.
Our International Business Management courses offer you the option to study abroad in year three.
It’s an exciting opportunity to live in another country and gain further insight into what it takes to do business across borders.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/computing:
More than code.
We are the No.1 UK modern university for Computer Science (The Times/Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024-2025).
We pride ourselves on our one year paid work placement and study abroad options.
Work with us on innovative research in areas such as cyber security and blockchain technology.
Computing is a field as vast as it is versatile, and you may already know what you want to focus on.
Our diverse degree programmes mean that you can identify a specialist area right from the start – ranging from cyber security and digital forensics to software engineering and games development or computing science, digital media, sound design and creative computing.
You’ll be taught by professors who are industry experts.
Among them are specialists who literally wrote the book on certain aspects of cyber crime and groundbreaking online security.
Learn more from our students, alumni and staff about the teaching, courses, facilities and career opportunities available at Edinburgh Napier.
Computers shape our world.
Study with us and you can engineer your own future – and perhaps everyone else’s too.
Keep your options wide open with a general programme that can give you broad academic and practical skills for a rewarding career in the computing industry.
Gain first-hand industry experience before you graduate.
For example, our year three students can opt for a one-year supervised paid work placement with a relevant organisation.
We believe it’s a brilliant way for you to improve your employability and prepare for life after university.
It’s why the School of Computing actively invests in developing employment opportunities for students.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/criminology-psychology-and-sociology:
Change is all around us.
We are a top 10 UK modern university for Psychology (Complete University Guide, 2025)
All our lecturers either have PhDs in this exciting field, hold or are working towards fellowship of the Higher Education Academy, or are Chartered Psychologists.
Our BSc (Hons) Policing & Criminology explores social, political and economic factors that impact on policing and crime, which will give you the competitive edge if you want to become a police officer.
We know what will help you get where you want to be.
You can study a range of modules in applied areas of psychology (such as forensic psychology, counselling psychology and work psychology), as well as core areas that add to the richness and relevance of the course in today’s world.
It helps you put theory into practice.
Our Policing & Criminology course gives you the opportunity to get involved with the Special Constabulary.
All of our courses offer you the chance to join the ‘Getting Inside’ work shadowing scheme, and there is an optional module on volunteering and employability skills.
The Criminology and Social Sciences courses whisk you off to an International Summer school with institutions in the US.
This gives you the opportunity to visit host institutions such as University of West Florida, and participate in a programme of activities including lectures and trips to criminal justice institutions.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/design-photography-and-advertising:
Our students are winning industry awards before they graduate.
We support students to make links with industry and undertake optional work placement or study abroad options.
Our connections with many of the UK’s best design agencies and professional photographers mean you’ll be work-ready when you graduate.
In your final year, you’ll exhibit your work at our annual Degree Show and national graduate showcases in London– a great way to meet potential employers.
Succeeding in business is all about having the right connections.
And we do.
Edinburgh-based StudioLR sponsors a best in show prize at the University’s Degree Show, with the winner not only getting recognition on the night but the chance to go and work with the agency for a month.
Local agencies also offer mentoring and placements throughout the year.
We also have strong links with heavyweight agency Design Bridge in London, which has so far employed six of our graduates.
Our programmes have a wide international footprint, with the opportunity to study at a partner University overseas or take a work placement in industry in Year 3.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/engineering:
Build your future.
Strong industrial links and input mean our programmes are highly relevant and up-to-date, ensuring all our graduates are work-ready.
Get access to our purpose-built labs with industry-relevant equipment.
Our Energy & Environmental Engineering course was the first in Scotland to focus specifically on energy, renewables and carbon accounting.
We help develop new technology that creates new jobs, improves the way we live and provides support for the economy.
At Edinburgh Napier we have strong industry links and work closely with working professionals who give regular guest lectures on live projects.
This provides you with a professional insight of what industry requires, and through this connection many students have secured employment after graduation.
Formula Student Team Napier (FSTN), are a team of students from Edinburgh Napier who aim to compete in the IMechE Formula Student competitions at Silverstone.
There's no better way for engineering students to kick-start their career in the industry, and provides opportunities to learn soft-skills in a team environment beyond the classroom.
Click here to learn more .
We know that learning comes from doing, so work placements are an intrinsic and essential part of every course.
We have many contacts within industry and we organise regular site visits and can even arrange for you to experience working abroad.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/english-creative-writing-and-publishing:
Word is spreading.
JK Rowling, Irvine Welsh, Ian Rankin – Edinburgh’s literary credentials are impressive indeed.
It’s no wonder we’re the world’s first UNESCO City of Literature.
And our English courses are as unique as each of these writers with a focus on modern literature.
Our courses nurture an awareness of the enduring appeal of literature and its relevance to the modern world.
You’ll learn valuable critical and theoretical skills, helping prepare you for a career in an exciting and diverse range of cultural and creative industries.
Study everything from classical literature to contemporary popular culture.
You'll also have the opportunity to take options in creative writing, film and TV studies.
Our work placement scheme offers the opportunity to gain teaching experience across the city, and to participate in an award-winning partnership with the Scottish Prison Service to enhance literacy.
Through our study abroad schemes, you’ll have the opportunity to benefit from studying at foreign universities in Prague, Stuttgart and Toronto.
Hands-on industry experience is a core part of every course.
Our dedicated placement scheme offers the opportunity to gain  teaching experience, apply for research  project internships, and to participate in  our award-winning partnership with the Scottish Prison Service.
Our study abroad schemes give you the opportunity to apply to study at foreign universities, including: -Charles University, Prague, Czech Republic -Ryerson University, Toronto, Canada

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/film-journalism-and-media:
Creating bright futures.
The media and creative industries are constantly evolving and expanding in scope, so let’s concentrate on getting you ready.
Our courses give you both in-depth knowledge and hands-on experience.
You’ll come away with all the technical and creative skills and practices you need to get ahead.
And thanks to our industry focus you could follow in the footsteps of some of our graduates who work for Sky, STV and shows like Outlander.
We are the #1 university in Scotland for Journalism and top 10 in the UK - The Guardian University Guide 2025
We are the top UK modern university for Communication and Media Studies - The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide
Our programmes offer a range of valuable work-based learning opportunities
Nothing comes close to hands-on learning.
Which is why we use our wide network of industry contacts to find students work placements in their chosen field.
For example, our partnership with STV gives students competitive opportunities for work placements on live and recorded shows.
Studying abroad provides a unique opportunity to develop your studies while embarking on a rich cultural exchange.
We have excellent links with universities worldwide.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/health-and-social-care:
Transforming and saving lives.
We take an international approach towards healthcare to help students, staff and researchers to better understand global health and social care challenges and improve the lives of people around the world.
When national organisations need results, they come to us.
We take on the challenges and deliver results that directly affect health and social care at a local, national and global level.
Our professors are consulted on major national health projects, and have recently joined forces with the Scottish Association for Mental Health.
Your degree offers you a world of choice.
Many of our graduates find employment within NHS Lothian , NHS Borders and the private sector .
However, you will also be able to work anywhere within the UK, the EU, and even further afield, in some cases.
We want you to go out there and make the world a better place.
Our Simulation and Clinical Skills Centre will give you the skills and confidence to master your vocation in a supportive environment.
We also work with local authorities, service providers, volunteer organisations and the NHS to help you make contacts in whatever work environment you choose.
With flexible study options for those who are already working in a health or social care setting, you can manage your own time building your qualifications on a module-by-module basis, with credits valid for five years.
Our students have undertaken placements in Australia and Zambia, and various countries in between.
Our undergraduate courses offer a range of volunteering and mobility opportunities, including a long summer holiday in Year 2 to allow for volunteering, and mobility placements outwith Lothian and Borders, or with international organisations, in Year 3.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/law:
Let's make our case.
Both courses are accredited by the Law Society of Scotland.
They give you a broad foundation in the law of Scotland.
They enable you to seek qualification as a solicitor in Scotland and pursue a wide range of other career options.
You can apply to join the student-run law clinic, where you will have the chance to advise real-life clients.
Ranked 2nd among UK Modern Universities for Law (Guardian GUG, 2024)
A Scots law degree is not only the first step towards qualifying as a solicitor in Scotland, but is also an excellent springboard to many other careers.
And where better to start than here at Edinburgh Napier, the #1 Modern University in Scotland (THE World University Rankings 2025).
Our students have the opportunity to take part in our student-run law clinic.
This is supported by local law firms and allows you the opportunity to put your learning into practice in real-life scenarios.
On our full-time Honours course, it is possible to study abroad in year three.
We have partnerships with universities in Europe, US & Australia.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/marketing:
Make your career go viral.
All of our Marketing degrees are accredited by the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM).
Many of our lecturers have first-hand practical knowledge, having worked in marketing.
Our Student Marketing Society is an active community organising regular marketing events.
Nothing accelerates learning like working on real-life briefs in a workplace setting.
That’s why placements are a vital part of these courses.
We give you the opportunity to undertake a 24 week work placement during trimester 2 of your third year.
Our undergraduate courses have the opportunity to study abroad as part of the programme.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/music:
Now this sounds good.
You’ll learn from lecturers who are practicing performers, composers, conductors, music therapists, musicologists, sound engineers and songwriters.
Our students have gone on to perform all over the world with bands like Mogwai and to manage groups like Idlewild.
We are a top 3 university in Scotland for Music - The Guardian University Guide 2025
We offer 24/7 access to our studios and practice rooms.
Our graduates go on to work at the highest levels of the music industries in Scotland and beyond.
We have strong connections with community projects and performing arts companies, which will help you secure flexible and long-term work placements.
Our relationship with the Eric Liddell Centre provides unique opportunities for students taking our Music Therapy module, allowing them to gain practical experience working with people with dementia.
These competitive placements include training in dementia awareness.
Taking the opportunity to study abroad provides a unique opportunity to develop your studies in music while embarking on a rich cultural exchange.
Opportunities include:
1.
The International College of Liberal Arts, Yamanashi Gakuin University, Japan.
2.
Tampere University of Applied Sciences, Finland.
3.
Washington State University, USA.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/nursing-and-midwifery:
Solve problems.
Save lives.
We are a top 10 UK modern university for Nursing (The Times/Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025).
Our state-of-the-art Simulation and Clinical Skills Centre has some of the best training facilities and specialist equipment in the country.
All of our Nursing & Midwifery students split their time between learning in the classroom and on-the-job in work placements with healthcare providers.
We are one of the largest providers of Nursing and Midwifery education in Scotland, and the only university to offer all four Nursing specialisms as well as Midwifery.
Using your new-found skills in the workplace is a core part of our nursing and midwifery courses.
We work closely with local healthcare providers to organise placements which allow you to put theory into practice, and you’ll get to prepare in advance in our simulated clinical environments.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/sport-and-exercise-sciences:
Help the body perform to its full potential.
Apply science to sport to make it better, faster and stronger.
#1 Modern University in Scotland (THE World University Rankings 2025)
We have exclusive partnerships with Scottish FA; and helped found the Scottish Mountain Biking Centre.
We are the biomechanics partner for the R&A, the governing body of golf for most of the world.
There is the opportunity to study abroad as part of many of our Undergraduate courses.
Where this is an option, you will be able to study in English at one of our partner institutions in Europe, US & Australia.
There are volunteering and work-based learning opportunities at each level of the programme.
This means you can test your knowledge and experience in a real-life working environment.
Placements are also a great way to help you decide what kind of career you want.
Learn more!

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/teaching:
By teachers, for teachers.
Our PGDE courses are designed, led and delivered by experienced teachers.
University modules focus on how educational theory translates to practice in the classroom.
Innovative use of video technology at university to prepare you for school placements.
Our Professional Graduate Diploma in Education (PGDE) courses are designed by teachers, for teachers.
Specialise in Biology, Chemistry, English, Maths or Physics to become a secondary school teacher.
Each course is accredited by the GTCS.
Edinburgh Napier is the #1 Modern University in Scotland (THE World University Rankings 2025) and have been voted the #1 University in Edinburgh for overall student satisfaction for five years in a row (NSS 2020-2024).
Apply now to start in August.
A one-year PGDE course allows you to teach your specialist subject in secondary schools.
You know your subject.
We'll help you share it.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/tourism-hospitality-festival-and-events-management:
A brilliant opportunity.
We are a Top 10 UK University for Hospitality, Event Management and Tourism (Guardian GUG, 2023).
Study in Edinburgh, a world-famous tourist destination and Festival City, with visiting professors from industry.
ENU is home of the Tourism Research Centre, which is dedicated to maximising positive impacts for the sector.
Edinburgh is at once a Festival City and a world-renowned tourism destination.
ENU is a Top 5 UK Modern University for Career and Graduate Prospects (Guardian Good University Guide 2024).
The Business School is also home to the Tourism Research Centre and you will learn from many of the Centre’s members, which will enable you to stay up to date with the latest research findings, empowering to make a real difference to whatever destination you choose to work in after graduation.
Use the  dropdown menu to select your preferred course level.
You’re in the right place if you want real life, hands-on experience.
Our strong links to the industry allow us to offer an optional 24 week work placement and we can arrange internships on most programmes.
From Murrayfield Stadium to top hotels such as Crieff Hydro and from Edinburgh Castle to the airport, we can help you find summer placements that build your talents in real world situations.
There are opportunities to study abroad in many of our courses, through our international exchange links in Europe and the USA.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/study-with-us:
Join our world-class academic staff, and make a real impact on issues affecting the economy and society in Scotland and the wider world.
We are committed to working to ensure greater access to education and employment for those leaving Military Service.
We were presented with a bronze award from the Armed Forces Covenant Employer Recognition Scheme in June 2016.
You may be eligible to get some help with the cost of studying here by applying to one of our scholarships.
We participate in the Santander Universities SME Internship Programme, connecting talented students and graduates with some of the UK’s fastest growing, most exciting small and medium-sized enterprises.
This is a great way to kick-start your career and build valuable experience fast.
We believe anyone with the talent and potential to succeed should have the opportunity to come to Edinburgh Napier University.
The UK voted in a referendum to leave the European Union and triggered Article 50 in March 2017.
Current EU students' immigration status and associated fee status have not changed as talks continue between the UK and EU.
The Scottish Government has confirmed that free tuition will continue for EU students with a place to start in academic years 2019/20 and 2020/21.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/study-with-us/undergraduate:
Learn more about undergraduate study at Scotland's Number One Modern University (THE World University Rankings 2025).
There's still time to join us this September.
Apply now through Clearing at Edinburgh Napier.
We’re not just another uni — and you’re not just another student.
From cutting-edge courses built for real-world careers, to a vibrant community in one of the UK’s greenest, most exciting capitals, we’ll equip you with the skills, confidence, and connections to change your life.
Whether you’re designing breakthroughs, exploring your passions, or making lifelong friends, this is where it all begins.
Watch the video to see what makes Napier different and find out where your future could take you.
Still have questions?
Call our advisers on 0333 900 6040 or use our online enquiry form to get in touch.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/study-with-us/postgraduate:
We know filling out forms can be time consuming, but please use this space to tell us a little more about your student or career journey before Edinburgh Napier University.
All the information we ask for helps us to help you, by finding the right information to give you regular updates.
Information for current ENU students who are considering postgraduate study with us.
Our alumni get 20% off their Masters tuition fees for year one of a full-time course to help you build the future you want.
Contact our advisers on 0333 900 6040 or use our online enquiry form.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/study-with-us/international-students:
It starts with travelling to a world-class university and goes wherever you want to take it.
At Edinburgh Napier University, we’re bold, ambitious and innovative.
With strong industry links, we deliver a truly hands-on learning experience to ensure you’re equipped with the skills and expertise to advance your knowledge and career.
Find out about entry requirements, scholarships, our local representatives in your country and when we will be in your part of the world.
You may be available to get some help with the cost of studying here by applying to one of our scholarships.
We are proud to work with many different agents worldwide.
Take a look to see the nearest representative to you.
Rocio's story
Youmna's story
Jordan's story
From writing your first CV to future career planning, we offer resources to support you finding work during and after your studies.
Learn all about our location, courses and how to apply.
Go through these resources to get ready and start your journey at Edinburgh Napier.
Send us your details and we'll keep you up to date on Edinburgh Napier and how we're supporting our international students.
We can also answer any questions you have about studying abroad.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/study-with-us/online:
Studying online is the perfect way to progress in your chosen career, learn something new o r advance in a unique field.
Completely flexible and t ailored to your lifestyle, online study is a great way to obtain your internationally recognised degree from anywhere in the world.
MBA
MSc Business Management
Other postgraduate courses
Undergraduate courses

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/study-with-us/apprenticeships:
Whether you're looking to upskill personally or you're an employer looking to upskill your staff, you can contact our Graduate Apprenticeship team via the enquiry form below, or give us a call on 0131 455 6464.
Our Graduate Apprenticeships offer high-quality work-based learning to strengthen the skills people and businesses in Scotland need.
We work in partnership with national and local organisations to give apprentices the opportunity to earn while they learn.
There is no maximum age limit and all Graduate Apprenticeships are 100% funded through Scottish Funding Council, meaning there are no additional costs to the apprentice and employer.
We offer a range of courses that enhance existing careers and launch new ones with an integrated experience, where academic skills and knowledge are embedded in work practices.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/study-with-us/short-courses:
We deliver high-impact, quality-assured learning and professional development to thousands of learners every year.
Attending one of our short courses will ensure you develop your personal and professional skills.
It will provide the fundamental skills you need to help you progress in your career.
Our courses cover a wide range of skills and industries and will support you to upskill, reskill and contribute to your continuing professional development ( CPD ).
Bespoke CPD and Custom Training
We can also support your organisation with its skills development requirements through bespoke courses that ensure your workforce is fit for the future.
Our bespoke short courses are discussed with the client and custom fitted to your organisational need.
Short Courses designed to help you advance in your profession.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/study-with-us/bursaries:
We have a variety of scholarships, bursaries and grants available to support your studies at Edinburgh Napier University.
Depending on the specific award’s eligibility criteria, they can fund living costs, childcare expenses, tuition fees or a specific project that is beneficial to your academic and personal development.
Current students can access a range of support, from the Scottish Funding Council, University funding and philanthropic donors.
To find out more, check your eligibility and apply for visit the Money pages on MyNapier .
We have a number of funds that you may be able to apply for before starting at Edinburgh Napier University.
A full list is available below, which can be filtered using the search bar.
The University has partial scholarships for self-funding students from Brazil.
Students in their penultimate year of study interested in pursuing a career in the Built Environment
Students from Colombia who are self-funding their course are eligible to apply for a merit-based scholarship.
Construction Innovation Scholarships are available to meet the costs of taught postgraduate fees at Edinburgh Napier University.
The University has partial scholarships for self-funding students from the EU.
The University has partial scholarships for self-funding visiting students from the EU.
The Harilela Scholarship provides scholarships support to Hong Kong, undergraduate students at Edinburgh Napier University in Scotland.
​This scholarship is open to Hong Kong residents who have been accepted on to any full-time undergraduate Edinburgh Napier degree course.
This scholarship is to help Chinese students to study at Edinburgh Napier University, and to help Edinburgh Napier students to study in China.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/study-with-us/student-life:
Discover the life that awaits you as an Edinburgh Napier student
Live and study in the beating heart of the Scottish capital, revel in its pulsating nightlife.
Develop your skills in world-class facilities, across three innovative campuses.
Settle in to your comfortable, stylish and safe accommodation.
Learn about our comprehensive student support.
Navigating living costs can feel overwhelming, especially if it's your first time managing a budget.
Explore costs, accommodation, travel and more.
We are committed to making our campuses accessible for all.
Find out about our campus accessibility for disabled people, carers and wheelchair users.
Chat to current students about their experiences at University.
We have a range of exciting products and designs that reflect the Napier energy and style.
All profits generated will go back into the University to directly support our students through the hardship and scholarships funds.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/study-with-us/graduation:
Join us as we celebrate and share some of the stories behind our autumn 2024 graduation ceremonies!
The full graduation booklet with all 2025 summer graduate names is available online for browsing or sharing with your family and friends.
Professor Sue Rigby has been officially inaugurated as Principal and Vice Chancellor of Edinburgh Napier University in a ceremony at the Usher Hall.
Sky News US Correspondent James Matthews has stressed the importance of good journalism as he was awarded an honorary doctorate by Edinburgh Napier University.
Champion Scottish cyclist Anna Flynn has spoken of her pride after graduating from Edinburgh Napier University.
Pioneering wheelchair basketball star Robyn Love has paid tribute to the place where her sporting career began, after being awarded an honorary doctorate by Edinburgh Napier University.
A new Edinburgh Napier University graduate feels as though she has achieved the impossible by graduating with first class honours – after a series of frightening seizures left her studies in doubt.
The full graduation booklet with all 2024 autumn graduate names is available online for browsing or sharing with your family and friends.
More than 1,800 Edinburgh Napier University students are on track to collect their degrees during a bumper week of graduations at the Usher Hall.
A resilient student celebrated her graduation after recovering from colon cancer – and thanked the staff who supported her along the way.
Sports broadcaster and motor neuron disease (MND) charity leader Jill Douglas has returned to her roots to collect an honorary doctorate.
Laura Wahlberg has been named the 2024 winner of the Simon Pullin Award.
The full graduation booklet with all 2024 graduate names is available online for browsing or sharing with your family and friends.
Edinburgh Napier University celebrates its biggest graduation ever with the return of its own pub and beer.
The first group of students from a trailblazing football coaching degree – delivered by Edinburgh Napier University (ENU) and the Scottish Football Association – have celebrated their graduation.
A festival director and Edinburgh Napier alumnus has been recognised by the University for his contribution to the arts – after being presented with an honorary doctorate.
Scotland’s first female Lord Advocate, and the chair of the public inquiry into the Sarah Everard case, has been awarded an honorary doctorate.
A mum-of-two has spoken of her pride after returning to Edinburgh Napier and starting her journey on a new career path.
Sonny Scott has signed up to start an MRes at ENU.
University life doesn't end at graduation.
As an alumnus, you have access to a broad range of events and services to allow you to keep in touch with old friends and network with like-minded individuals.
If you've graduated from Edinburgh Napier University with an undergraduate degree, you're entitled to a 20% discount on your tuition fees if you study on a taught postgraduate degree with us.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/study-with-us/accommodation:
Applications for 2025/26 student accommodation are now open!
Our Edinburgh Napier accommodation is affordable, modern and supported by a dedicated team of University staff.
On this page, you'll find information on all you need to know about living with us, from moving in and paying rent to what to expect during your tenancy and how to get involved with our Residence Life events programme.
To keep up to date on all things student accommodation, make sure to follow us on Instagram or Facebook .
02:20
As an alternative to living in university accommodation, you could choose to rent privately.
There's a vast choice of private student accommodation in Edinburgh, but demand is equally high.
Our accommodation office can help you start looking and make sure you've got all the information you need.
Information and support for parents and carers of students going into accommodation.
Looking for en suite accommodation over the summer months?
Take a look at our pricing and services.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/study-with-us/widening-participation:
We recognise students are individuals and that not everyone's journey to and through university is the same.
We have a proud history of supporting our students and are here for you from the beginning of your journey right through to graduation.
To find out what we can do for you, take a look at the links below.
The Widening Participation team works closely with key schools, colleges and other external agencies to promote higher education.
Our team provides information, advice, guidance and tailored support to students from a range of backgrounds.
So if you:
then our Widening Participation team can help you.
If you’re unsure whether any of these applies to you, or if you have any other questions, give us a call on 0333 900 6040 or contact our enquires team and a member of the team will help you.
*The Scottish Index of Multiple Deprivation ranks each postcode in Scotland by factors such as levels of income, health, access to services, crime, employment and education.
SIMD20 (sometimes referred to as SIMD1 is the 20% most deprived postcodes in Scotland.
Enter your postcode below to check if you would be eligible for an offer based on our minimum entry requirements.
For example, EH12 8DJ
Check Postcode
You are a widening access student based on your postcode and would be eligible for an offer based on our minimum entry requirements.
If you have any questions, please contact our enquiries team .
Unfortunately you are not a widening access student based on your postcode, but you may still be eligible for an offer based on our minimum entry requirements if you meet one or more of the criteria listed above.
If you are unsure or have any further questions, please contact our enquiries team .
The Widening Participation team is always around to answer any questions you might have, big or small.
Call 0333 900 6040 and ask to speak to a member of the Widening Participation Team or submit an enquiry form.
Read more about how we make minimum offers based on your context and achievements.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/research-and-innovation:
Research at Edinburgh Napier University is creating high-quality knowledge that benefits the social, cultural and economic life of the society we serve.
Simply put, we aim to deliver outward-looking research that can transform communities – whether that is the rollout of a national telemonitoring service to lower blood pressure, saving mangrove forests in Kenya or establishing the world’s first innovation centre for mountain biking.
In the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021 assessment of every UK university, over two-thirds of all our Edinburgh Napier University research was judged to be either ‘world leading’ or ‘internationally excellent’, providing the best possible confirmation that Edinburgh Napier delivers excellent research with substantial real impact, nationally and internationally.
Our Edinburgh Napier Doctoral College offers a full range of research degrees, including Masters, PhDs and Professional Doctorates.
Our Research Centres bring together academic staff, students and our external partner organisations in a united mission to solve real-world problems, influence policy, and deliver positive impact on a local, national and global scale.
Your organisation could benefit from the world-leading expertise and wide experience of Edinburgh Napier University.
Visit our Innovation Hub today to find out how we help businesses, from a variety of sectors, with advice and knowledge and how we might support your organisation's growth ambitions and can help you succeed.
5:37
Keep up to date with research stories from Edinburgh Napier

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/business-and-innovation-hub:
Research and innovation plays a crucial role in underpinning our ability to solve real-world problems for our partners.
We provide advice, knowledge and expertise to industry, the public and third sectors building strong partnerships with organisations of all sizes in Scotland, the UK and beyond.
Whether you are a public sector organisation, start-up, SME or a multinational, we invite you to engage with us and learn more about how we can help your organisation succeed.
Collaborate with us through Knowledge Transfer Partnerships and access our expertise, latest research and funding opportunities to support your business growth and development.
Improve sustainability and wellbeing, and inspire the future workforce by investing in Edinburgh Napier University today.
The innovative solutions we can provide are vast.
Contact us today to discover how we can support you and your organisation to pivot, adapt to change and build resilience for sustainable future growth.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/doctoral-college:
Edinburgh Napier University’s Doctoral College provides our postgraduate research students with dedicated support throughout their professional and academic journey.
Our research students work alongside our world-class academics, carrying out research that will make a real impact on society and the world at large.
We offer a full range of research degrees, including Masters, PhDs and Professional Doctorates.
You can choose to apply for one of our advertised degrees or submit your own research idea.
Our research students form a friendly and welcoming community, and benefit from the extensive support we provide, including dedicated supervision and excellent facilities, training and professional development.
PhD
Master of Research
DBA
Edinburgh Napier University is an excellent choice for pursuing a research degree due to our strong focus on applied research, industry collaboration, and real-world impact.
The university is home to world-leading research centers across various disciplines, offering cutting-edge facilities and a supportive academic environment.
Situated in the vibrant and historic city of Edinburgh, the university offers an inspiring setting for research, with access to a rich academic community, cultural experiences, and strong industry connections that make it an ideal destination for ambitious researchers.
We’re very proud of the close-knit, supportive community that we create around our research degree students.
But don’t just take our word for it.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/global:
In the 2019 QS Stars international university rankings, the quality of our teaching, internationalisation and employability were all recognised, with the University scoring five stars in each category.
The University overall scored four stars.
Alongside leading academic theory you'll find professional know-how and extensive industry connections to help you succeed beyond university.
We believe that giving our staff, students, researchers and partners an international perspective improves graduate employability, enriches the student experience, helps us to understand and solve global problems and has a positive impact on communities – both locally and around the world.
We have almost 8,000 international students from 150 countries, representing 40% of our overall student population.
Globally we have around 5,500 students studying online or with one of our partners in China, Hong Kong, Myanmar, Singapore, Sri Lanka and Switzerland.
Our new strategy, Shaping our Future: Driving Distinctiveness , will continue to build on the foundations and progress achieved through Strategy 2020, and will continue to build Edinburgh Napier’s reputation as an internationalised university with a global outlook.
Across the world our researchers are creating innovative solutions to global problems.
Our new strategy, Shaping our Future: Driving Distinctiveness, sees us commit to a series of transformative actions to underpin the delivery of our three strategic objectives and sustainable growth.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/global/enuic:
Edinburgh Napier University International College (ENUIC) is an embedded on-campus college for international students to start their studies at Edinburgh Napier University.
The International College is located in the historic city centre Merchiston campus, with easy access to student accommodation.
At Edinburgh Napier University International College students are given the support and encouragement to build a firm foundation for future success in a diverse range of degree programmes.
Students can choose to study International foundation, International Stage One, International Stage Two, or an International Incorporated Master's.
Oxford International operates ENUIC in partnership with Edinburgh Napier University.
Oxford International was founded in 1991 and is an accredited private education provider that operates international colleges, independent boarding schools, and English language centres across the UK and North America to create life-enhancing experiences for students worldwide.
A perfect place for students, situated in the lively neighbourhood of Bruntsfield, you can easily relax in buzzing independent cafes, restaurants and bars, or walk to the popular hangout spot The Meadows for a breath of fresh air - a perfect place to catch up after lectures.
International Foundation Year is the equivalent to the first year of a four-year Scottish undergraduate degree.
You'll be part of an amazing city, world renowned for heritage, culture, festivals and tourism.
ENUIC students have access to Capitol Students accommodation, easily accessible to the Merchiston campus.
You'll find clean, modern student accommodation in shared flats, where you'll live with other Edinburgh Napier students.
At OIEG we aim to get back to all applications and enquiries within two working days.
If you require any assistance or have any questions please get in touch with us at pathways@oxfordinternational.com

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/global/international-partners:
We work with partners around the globe on a range of international activities including joint teaching, student and staff exchange programmes, student recruitment and support, and research and knowledge exchange.
Each of schools has a network of partnerships and international links around the world.
Read more about each school below.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/global/exchange-programmes:
On December 24 th 2020, the UK Government announced that as an outcome of Brexit negotiations, the United Kingdom would not be seeking to participate in the Erasmus+ successor programme.
Edinburgh Napier University will continue to actively engage with Erasmus+ through to the conclusion of its current project which is expected to support both incoming and outgoing student and staff mobility for academic year 2021/22.
In 2021/22, Edinburgh Napier University intends to continue to send and receive students and staff under the Erasmus+ framework, whilst concurrently aiming to offer grants to Edinburgh Napier students undertaking qualifying mobilities beyond the EU under the Turing scheme .
The breadth of financial support available under Turing will not be confirmed until the Summer of 2021 when Turing application outcomes are expected.
From 2022/23 it is expected that Edinburgh Napier will no longer operate under the Erasmus+ scheme and will therefore be working with existing and new partners on the arrangements for a smooth transition to new partnership arrangements and opportunities in the coming year.
It should be noted that the Turing Scheme will not provide grants for staff mobility or Visiting (incoming) students, however it is likely that the Turing Scheme will offer broader flexibility for Edinburgh Napier students seeking funding to undertake international opportunities around the world, from 1-12 months.
Exchanges within Europe are usually organised by the Erasmus+ programme, the European Commission's flagship educational programme for Higher Education.
Please see our Erasmus+ Charter 2014-2020 and our Erasmus+ Policy Statement.
The Erasmus+ exchange programme gives students the opportunity to study or work in another European country.
The programme counts towards your degree and will add an international dimension to your studies.
The Erasmus+ programme will run as normal in the 2021/22 academic year.
We have direct exchange links all around the world including Australia, Canada, China, New Zealand and the USA, and also work in partnership with International Student Exchange Program (ISEP), which is an organisation that arranges placements for students beyond Edinburgh Napier University’s direct exchange partner institutions.
Short-term exchange opportunities are available in the summer, giving students an opportunity to explore different cultures outside term time.
Volunteering or working abroad can be a rewarding, challenging and exciting experience.
We encourage our students to use their skills and their time to make a difference while at Edinburgh Napier.
If you’re currently studying outside the UK you can join over 650 international visiting students from Europe, the USA and beyond by spending a trimester or a year with us as part of your degree, giving you a global perspective on your studies as you experience life in an exciting, historic and cultured capital city.
Visit the visiting students section for more information about studying on exchange at Edinburgh Napier, including the online application form.
The UK left the EU on the 31 st December 2020.
As part of the transitional arrangements, UK membership in the Erasmus+ programme will be retained for all existing Erasmus+ projects until the end of the EU funding cycle (end of 2020/21 academic year).
For Edinburgh Napier University, this means that Erasmus+ exchanges planned for the 2021/22 academic year will operate as normal.
Whilst Erasmus+ activity will continue to be supported in 2021/22, due to the UKs departure from the EU, students should be aware that there are changes to healthcare and visa requirements for exchanges to the EU.
Please contact the Global Mobility team via email for more detailed information on this.
Further information about Erasmus+ and the future of international mobility under the Turing Scheme is available here .

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/global/transnational-education:
The International Programmes team works closely with academic colleagues to support the development and delivery of transnational education (TNE) programmes in collaboration with partners around the world.
Our most established partnerships in Hong Kong date back over 40 years and we now have around 3,000 students studying our degrees overseas.
We provide support and advice on the development of new TNE programmes, as well as providing full administrative support for all current TNE programmes.
TNE is central to our internationalisation strategy, and we have ambitions to establish new partnerships in different regions of the globe.
Our partnerships allow students the opportunity to study an Edinburgh Napier degree closer to home, and still be part of the Edinburgh Napier University experience.
GXUT is located in Liuzhou, an important industrial city in Guangxi province, Southwest China.
The university was established in 1958 and now has over 27,000 full-time students located across 3 campuses.
Our collaboration with GXUST dates back to 2014 and we now have a Ministry of Education approved Joint Education Programme (JEP) in Mechanical Engineering which started in 2015.
Students study the degree entirely in China and graduate with both an Edinburgh Napier and GXUST degree:
YUFE is located in Kunming city in Southwest China.
It was established in 1951 and is now a multi-disciplinary university with specialisms in economics, management and finance.
Our partnership with YUFE dates back to 2012.
We have a successful Ministry of Education approved Joint Education Programme (JEP) which is taught fully in China and allows students to graduate with both an Edinburgh Napier and YUFE degree.
Capital Universities Foundation is a new institution located in the New Administrative Capital of Egypt.
We will work in partnership with Capital University to deliver a range of Edinburgh Napier University undergraduate degree programmes in computing and engineering with a planned start date of September 2025.
The programmes which are offered as part of this partnership are:
We've been offering professional degrees with SCOPE for more than 20 years.
Established in 1991, the School of Continuing and Professional Education (CityU SCOPE) is an extension of the City University of Hong Kong.
It has been the destination of choice for thousands of students keen to develop their careers.
SCOPE has helped fulfill City University's role as a centre for lifelong education.
CityU SCOPE’s range of quality programmes for professional practice, retraining and self-development anticipate and respond to the needs of employees and employers, keeping pace with changing technologies and social needs.
We collaborate with SCOPE to offer top-up degrees:
The HKU School of Professional and Continuing Education (HKU SPACE) was formally established in October 1992 as the direct successor to its predecessor, the Department of Extra-Mural Studies (EMS) of the University of Hong Kong.
Edinburgh Napier has been in partnership with the HKU Space since 2000.
This relationship has grown further since 2000, with the first students receiving awards in the areas of Marketing and Administrative and Information Management in 2002 and in Financial Services in 2004.
HKU SPACE has become a centre of excellence through the provision of professional and continuing education serving Hong Kong, China Mainland and the region.
You can study on the following courses in a collaboration between Edinburgh Napier University and HKU SPACE:
• BSc (Hons) Biological Science • BA (Hons) Social Sciences • BA (Hons) International Festival and Event Management Part Time • BA Communication Advertising and Public Relations Full Time • BA Communication Advertising and Public Relations Part Time • MSc Biomedical Science • MSc Marketing • MSc Marketing with Festival and Event Management • MSc Marketing with Digital Strategy • MSc Business Management (Leadership and Innovation)
Hong Kong Baptist University (HKBU) offers a range of undergraduate programmes, associate degree and higher diploma programmes as well as taught postgraduate programmes and research postgraduate programmes leading to the award of master and doctoral degrees.
HKBU prides itself on its dual focus on teaching and research and encourages service to society among its staff and students.
Over the years, HKBU has remained committed to academic excellence.
In collaboration with the School of Continuing Education (SCE) of Hong Kong Baptist University (HKBU), Edinburgh Napier University (ENU), offers a 1-year part-time " Bachelor of Arts in Human Resource Management with Organisational Psychology " programme.
California Unitec (Institute of Engineering) is Myanmar’s leading private Institute specialising in Civil Engineering.
It was founded in early 2013 and is located in the heart of Yangon, Myanmar.
It is in partnership with Edinburgh Napier University.
We collaborate with California Unitec to deliver:
IMU is one of Myanmar's leading private institutes specialising in computing and is experienced in running both college and industrially certified courses.
It is located in the university district of Yangon in Myanmar.
We collaborate with IMU to deliver:
PSB is one of Singapore’s leading private education institutions and has provided high quality international education in Singapore and produced industry-ready graduates for over 50 years.
PSB is EduTrust-certified by the Council for Private Education (CPE), in recognition of excellent standards in academic management and quality educational services.
We collaborate with PSB to deliver the following degrees:
SHRI was established in 1965 to provide training and academic programmes to cater for the learning needs of the workforce in Singapore.
The institute aims to be the leading authority on human resources management, knowledge and practices in Singapore.
Our Business School has collaborated with the institute to deliver top-up courses focused on human resource management:
MDIS was founded in 1956 and is Singapore's oldest not-for-profit professional institute for lifelong learning.
MDIS is EduTrust certified by the Council for Prive Education (CPE), in recognition of excellent standards in academic management and quality educational services.
We deliver a degree in Nursing in collaboration with MDIS which is approved by the Singapore Nursing Board (SNB).
Set up in 2001, SIST has dedicated its efforts to providing cutting edge science and technology training to students in Sri Lanka.
With excellent molecular biology, microbiology, biochemistry and plant tissue culture labs, students get a comprehensive practical experience to give them an advantage in their scientific career.
Our School of Applied Sciences delivers undergraduate degrees in biological science in collaboration with this Colombo-based institution.
HTMI is a private hotel school located in Canton Luzerne, Switzerland.
Established in 1992, HTMi specialises in hospitality and event management programmes.
The School of International Hotel and Tourism Management provides high-quality education, training and work internships to all students.
Since 2011, Edinburgh Napier has been in partnership with HTMi to provide:
• MSc in Hospitality and Tourism Management

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/global/global-research:
At Edinburgh Napier, we are committed to ensuring our research is directly relevant to industry and the needs of society.
In the UK and across the world, our researchers are making a difference to people’s lives.
Through innovation, collaboration, and enterprise our research is having an impact across the globe.
Highlighted below are just some of the areas our research has had an impact.
We are working in partnership with institutions across 17 countries in Europe on the €17m Fi-STAR project to revolutionise the way healthcare is delivered across Europe.
Professor Christoph Thuemmler is managing several projects including:
Research led by Dr Karen Diele with Brazilian collaborators has helped conserve Brazilian mangrove crabs .
The crabs are a national delicacy and also key to the country’s coastal ecosystem.
Dr Diele’s research has been instrumental in changing legislation aimed at sustainable practice.
In partnership with Scottish Enterprise, Borders College and Development Mountain Biking in Scotland, we have set up a centre for training and research in the heart of Scotland’s mountain biking region to support and grow Scotland’s reputation as a global leader in this exciting sport.
How do we build new homes while minimising impact on the environment ?
University construction experts led by Prof Sean Smith have pioneered technology to reduce heat loss and noise levels, while other researchers are helping make more of our existing housing stock.
Research by our Business School in the UK, Hong Kong, Macau and Singapore revealed the difference in how Generation Y make decisions on attractions, hotels and events .
This study helps tourism business to better communicate with 18-35 year olds.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/alumni:
Welcome to the ENU Alumni Network!
The Edinburgh Napier alumni community has members across the world.
Alumni can join networking groups to meet fellow alumni, share ideas or ask for advice.
By keeping in touch with the University after graduation, you will also receive invitations to networking events, reunion get-togethers, further study opportunities and hear about upcoming activities that will help you in your future career.
Keep in touch and stay connected.
00:51
The Red Triangle is our magazine for alumni, friends, and supporters.
It celebrates you, your accomplishments, and your continued relationship with the University.
Join a network.
Discover volunteering opportunities.
Browse our events.
Find out what your fellow alumni are up to.
Read the latest version of Red Triangle Magazine.
Share your own stories and highlights with us.
Recent graduates have access to an amazing range of graduate career support for up to two years after completing their degree!
ALL FOR FREE!
Access your exclusive alumni benefits.
Shop for Edinburgh Napier merchandise.
Order a document or transcript.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/alumni/alumni-news:
Get all the latest news from your classmates and tell us yours!
Meet Edinburgh Napier's Honorary Graduates
The Alumni Awards recognise an individual or a group of alumni who have shown excellence and distinction in their personal and/or professional lives and who have made a positive contribution to the University, their community and profession.
Meet the distinguished alumni who have been inducted into the School of Arts and Creative Industries (SACI) Alumni Hall of Fame.
The Red Triangle  is our magazine for alumni, friends, and supporters.
3:27

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/alumni/benefits-and-services:
The biggest benefit of all is connecting with members of the alumni community.
T-shirts and tops Hoodies and sweatshirts Sport and leisurewear Bags, knitwear and accessories
3.37

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/alumni/get-involved:
There are opportunities to get involved with the alumni community all over the world.
This network can help you take your career to the next level, breathe new life into your business, help you reminisce about University life and more.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/alumni/donate-to-support:
Welcome to the hub for supporting Edinburgh Napier University ’s mission to drive innovation, excellence in education, and impactful research.
Your contribution plays a pivotal role in empowering ENU students to access education and make a difference in our communities and beyond.
Your generosity holds hope, casting a direct and powerful impact on the lives of our students.
Whether you're considering a one-time gift, setting up a regular donation, or leaving a gift in your will, your support has the potential to create meaningful change and open doors at Edinburgh Napier University .
3.00

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us:
We were named the top higher education institution in Scotland at the sector’s premier awards.
We also won the Widening Access Award and Outstanding Contribution from a University Student as well as receiving a commendation in the Research Project of the Year category #MustBeNapier!
Edinburgh Napier is the #1 Modern University in Scotland (THE World University Rankings 2025).
We have also been voted the #1 University in Edinburgh for overall student satisfaction for six years in a row (NSS 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023, 2024 & 2025) and we are the top Scottish modern university for research power and research impact (REF 2021).
We are also a top 5 UK modern university for career prospects (Guardian University Guide 2025).
We’re here to make a difference.
We’re here to support big dreams and bright ideas.
We’re here to provide education, support, resources, connections, advice, late-night coffees and bags of encouragement.
Whether you’re a prospective student or staff member, industry partner or graduate employer, you’ve come to the right place.
Jump in.
Let’s build a better future together.
Keep up with all the University news and events on LinkedIn , Instagram , Facebook , X , TikTok , YouTube and Reddit .
You can also reach out to us directly via our online enquiry form .
We have three campuses in Edinburgh offering advanced facilities for learning, teaching and research.
Based in an iconic, prosperous city and a stunning, ambitious, forward-thinking country, Edinburgh Napier is a great place to live, work and study.
Edinburgh Napier comprises five schools with an international focus, each committed to growing our academic reputation, delivering an excellent personalised student experience and building innovation, enterprise and citizenship.
Our vision is compelling – to be an enterprising and innovative community, renowned internationally, with an unrivalled student learning experience.
Digital strategy
Our digital strategy ensures we have a robust, reliable, and secure infrastructure that supports the delivery of world-class education and research.
Environmental strategy
These strategic objectives and enabling commitments enhance environmental sustainability within and beyond the University.
Mental health strategy
We are taking a collaborative institution-wide approach to mental health and wellbeing so that we provide the best possible experience for all students and staff.
Leadership
Edinburgh Napier University is guided by a senior leadership team, headed by Professor Sue Rigby, who became the Principal and Vice-Chancellor of Edinburgh Napier in January 2025.
Governance
Learn more about how we operate an effective, fair, forward-looking University, including our Modern Slavery, Equality & Diversity and Gender-Based Violence statements.
Chancellor
Will Whitehorn OBE is Chancellor of Edinburgh Napier University.
The Chancellor is the titular head of the institution and confers degrees and other awards of the University.
Each year, we host a public update about Edinburgh Napier's people, research and strategic objectives.
This update offers you more in-depth information about who we are, what makes us distinctive, and how we are working to make everyday differences to the lives of people in our local community, in Scotland, and in the world.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/term-dates:
The following dates apply to the majority of university programmes delivered in Edinburgh, however always check for courses with course specific dates.
The Edinburgh Napier University International College (ENUIC) and Transnational Education Programmes (TNE) may operate to separate calendars and term dates.
All dates are inclusive.
Trimester 1 : 9 September 2024 – 21 December 2024 Trimester 2 : 20 January 2025 – 17 May 2025 Trimester 3 : 2 June 2025 - 30 August 2025
Winter break : 24 December 2024 – 2 January 2025 Staff marking, preparation & development weeks : w/c 6 - 19 January 2025 Spring break : 14 - 27 April 2025 Staff marking, preparation & development weeks : 19 May 2025 – 1 June 2025 Staff marking, preparation & development weeks : 1 – 7 September 2025
Trimester 1 : 9 - 21 December 2024 Trimester 2 : 5 - 17 May 2025 Trimester 3 : 25 - 30 August 2025
Trimester 1 : 8 September 2025 – 20 December 2025 Trimester 2 : 19 January 2026 – 16 May 2026 Trimester 3 : 1 June 2026 - 29 August 2026
Winter break : 24 December 2025 – 2 January 2026 (campus closure dates, inclusive) Staff marking, preparation & development weeks : w/c 5 - 18 January 2026 Spring break : 30 March - 12 April 2026 Staff marking, preparation & development weeks : 18 - 31 May 2026 Staff marking, preparation & development weeks : 31 August 2026 – 6 September 2026
Trimester 1 : 8 - 20 December 2025 Trimester 2 : 4 - 16 May 2026 Trimester 3 : 24 - 29 August 2026
Trimester 1: 7 September 2026 – 19 December 2026 Trimester 2: 18 January 2027 – 15 May 2027 Trimester 3: 31 May 2027 – 28 August 2027
Winter break : 23 December 2026 – 1 January 2027 (campus closure dates, inclusive) Staff marking, preparation & development weeks: w/c 4 - 17 January 2027 Spring break: 22 March - 4 April 2027 Staff marking, preparation & development weeks: 17 - 30 May 2027 Staff marking, preparation & development weeks: 30 August 2027 – 5 September 2027
Trimester 1: 7 - 19 December 2026 Trimester 2: 3 - 15 May 2027 Trimester 3: 23 - 28 August 2027
Trimester 1: 6 September 2027 – 18 December 2027 Trimester 2: 17 January 2028 – 13 May 2028 Trimester 3: 29 May 2028 – 26 August 2028
Winter break : 23 December 2027 – 3 January 2028 (campus closure dates, inclusive) Staff marking, preparation & development weeks: w/c 3 - 16 January 2028 Spring break: 10 April - 23 April 2028 Staff marking, preparation & development weeks: 15 - 28 May 2028 Staff marking, preparation & development weeks: 28 August 2028 – 3 September 2028

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/events:
Our campus tours are a great opportunity to see where you would study as an Edinburgh Napier student.
Every year Edinburgh Napier celebrates our newly established Professors as they share with us the breath and quality of their research and achievements.
You can get in touch with us on +44 (0)333 900 6040 or use our online enquiry form.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/our-location:
Find out why Edinburgh and Scotland is a great place to live, work, study and do business.
Moving to Scotland Checklist
We are a global employer and welcome staff from over 120 countries to our beautiful city and country.
With so many moving parts to relocating, review the moving to Scotland checklist for all matters relating to housing, VISA and immigration, NHS and schooling before deciding if we are the best place for you.
Scotland has more world class universities per head of population than anywhere else in the world.
Steeped in history with stunning scenery and wildlife and warm welcoming people, it's easy to see why nearly 2.5 million visitors come to Scotland every year.
Vibrant, cosmopolitan and consistently voted one of the best cities in the world, Edinburgh is the perfect place to experience student life or build your career.
Edinburgh Napier's three campuses are all designed with learning and working in mind.
All are easily accessible, and provide  diverse, collaborative communities and excellent facilities.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/our-schools:
Edinburgh Napier University’s Business School, proudly AACSB-accredited, empowers tomorrow’s leaders with career-focused, globally relevant business education rooted in innovation, sustainability, and real-world impact.
Proudly developing the next generation of creative professionals through hands-on learning, industry partnerships, and world-class facilities.
We empower students to thrive in fields such as design, media, film, journalism, music, and the performing arts.
We equip students with hands-on skills, scientific knowledge, and industry experience to tackle real-world challenges.
Our diverse study areas include biological sciences, psychology, criminology, sport, and teaching, designed to empower impactful careers through innovation and applied research.
Ranked the #1 UK Modern University for Engineering and Computer Science (GUG 2025), we lead innovation in a rapidly changing world through future-ready education across disciplines like cybersecurity, AI, renewable energy, computer/data science, engineering, building, and surveying.
Setting the standard in nursing, midwifery, and allied health education in Scotland with cutting-edge clinical training and strong healthcare partnerships across a range of disciplines.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/news:
05 August 2025
22 July 2025
11 July 2025
10 July 2025
09 July 2025
1.51

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/official-merchandise:
If you're looking for clothing to set you apart, we've got you covered with hoodies, t-shirts, sports gear and leisure wear.
We've also got comfortable and stylish knitwear such as gloves, hats and scarves.
You can also choose from a range of gifts, accessories and graduation products, including rucksacks, bags, eco and organic products and iPad and laptop covers.
All profits generated from sales go back into the university to contribute to our great student experience.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/contact-us:
Fill out our enquiry form and one of our advisers will get back to you as soon as possible.
Or, you can call us on +44 (0)333 900 6040 .
If you are phoning to discuss a current application, please have your Edinburgh Napier Number or UCAS Personal ID number ready before you call us.
If you are a current student, please contact your school office .
If you would like to contact us about applying to us in Clearing, please call 0333 9 00 3050 or complete our online enquiry form .
Keep up with all the University news and events on LinkedIn , Instagram , Facebook , X , TikTok , YouTube , Bluesky and Reddit .
If you are a British Sign Language (BSL) user, you can contact Edinburgh Napier University via the national, free of charge, BSL video relay service - Contact Scotland BSL.
If you are thinking of applying or have a question about the admissions process, please contact the relevant team:
For general enquiries, please see our contact information below.
Sighthill Campus Sighthill Court Edinburgh EH11 4BN
0333 900 6040
enquiries@napier.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/conferences-and-hospitality:
01:57
Edinburgh Napier University alumni can enjoy a 15% discount on room hire, along with reduced rates for Day Delegate packages.
For more details, please contact us at conferences@napier.ac.uk or call 01314553711.
Follow us on Instagram and LinkedIn to stay up to date!
4.5MB
5.6MB

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/search:
We prepare our graduates to make a positive difference in a rapidly changing world and deliver innovative research that improves people’s lives.
The University has partial scholarships for self-funding students from Middle East and North Africa.
The University has partial scholarships for self-funding students from Turkey.
Edinburgh Napier participates in the William D Ford Federal Direct Loan Program, the Veteran Affairs Benefits Program and the Canadian Loans Program.
The University has partial scholarships for self-funding students from Sub-Saharan Africa.
The OAS Craiglockhart Scholarship is offered by The Centre for Military Research, Education & Public Engagement
The Ian Tomlin PhD Scholarships support music PhD students experiencing financial need.
The University has partial scholarships for self-funding students from Mexico.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/clearing:
Clearing is open
Call us now
Phone lines open Mon-Fri 9am - 5pm
Apply through Clearing to start September 2025.
Find the right Undergraduate course for you, by exploring what's available in our course listings for your location through the coloured blocks below.
When you're ready, give us a call or complete our Clearing form.
Our friendly team will check your qualifications and walk you through the application process, helping you secure your place at Scotland’s Top Modern University (THE WUR 2025).
Clearing is the university application period that opens at ENU between 5 July — 31 August 2025 .
This gives you the chance to apply for available undergraduate courses starting in September.
Meet Nicola, our Student Recruitment expert at Edinburgh Napier University.
In this video, she discusses four simple steps to navigate Clearing in 2025.
This video covers:
Read our student stories below and learn more about the Clearing process from their perspective.
Hear from current ENU students with our podcast series.
Get answers on choosing the right course, the support we offer and how to maximise your student experience.
If you're interested in applying at Edinburgh Napier for September 2025 entry, complete our Clearing form below.
We'll review your application and contact you with any potential offers.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/news/edinburgh-napier-at-the-2025-festivals:
11:56
The final preparations are being made for this year’s Edinburgh Festivals with the city set to once again burst into life across the month of August.
As always, our talented students, alumni, staff members and friends are involved in a number of shows throughout the month of August.
Feeling overwhelmed with the choice on offer?
Want to start planning those days off?
Let our helpful guide of all things ENU provide you with a little bit of festival inspiration.
Read on for more!
Sex, Drugs and...?
An exclusive interview sheds light on the formative years of Scotland's biggest punk, alternative (fictional) band, revealing how their drug addiction and musical passion clashed together to give way to sobering success.
Tackling issues of the pressures of modern life, three addict punks recount how their love of music and creative passion saved them from a pitfall of coke and broken dreams, allowing them the worldwide success they have today.
A powerful new piece of writing about celebrating creativity and fighting for your friends, written by Samara Telford and directed by Andrew Nimmo.
You Have Failed Me for the Last Time
Supervillain Friedrich von Fittervach dreams of ruling the world from his remote volcano base.
If only his workforce, his right-hand man or his restrictive board of investors shared the vision of his five-year plan.
To make matters worse, a suave and cunning MI6 intruder, Agent Blonde, has breached the security of the island compound and sparked revolution among the corporation’s ranks.
Will the vertically-challenged supposed evil genius be able to rise up and regain complete control, or will the company fall into the slimy, inexperienced hands of the proletariat scum?
The Big Day
Glasgow holds a music festival – The Big Day.
The problem?
You and your pals can’t see it, because you’re in a holding cell.
The Girls have been best pals for ages.
But recently, changes drive them apart.
The girls watch Sheena, but when she debuts an American accent, Fiona throws a glow stick at the stage and the group is arrested.
They meet Louise who was thrown in the cell earlier.
The forced proximity allows the group to open up, help each other face their dilemmas and hatch an escape plan.
Screaming Into the Void
Put a finger down if one day you looked at the world around you and said there has to be another way – a better way.
Welcome to the void, a pure pristine world of divine minimalism.
We love the void, we worship the void, in the void everything is exactly as it should be.
Our three disciples will guide you through your day from the moment you wake until you scroll away: you need them!
And they need you.
Kira Mason’s new absurdist piece Screaming Into the Void explores the internet’s relentless grip on womanhood.
Confessions of a Lunatic
Waking up having witnessed a brutal murder – by his own hand, incapable of stopping the madness, he stood and watched.
Dr Seward plunges himself into work, feasting on the madness of his prized prisoner, following his rejection by Lucy.
Whilst in his confinement, Renfield grows closer to Lucy, and Dracula sets eyes on her new prey.
They say you make a deal with the devil – but have you ever made a deal with Dracula?
An adaptation of Dracula set in 1890s Scotland – is anyone safe from the darkness in these walls?
3-23 August
Holly Street
A new play set in the mixing pot of a writer’s room.
With the anniversary of the beloved soap opera Holly Street on the horizon, how will the writing team craft a story worthy of the green light?
What happens when given a wacky whiteboard that seems to bring ideas to life?
Follow them through a bizarre brainstorming session that leads them into the heat of the action.
Will the wayward team of writers combine their two braincells to piece together the beat sheet?
Or will their differences prove too much for even the soaps?
Cornermen
When Mickey, Joey and Drew realise they’re in financial dire straits, they hatch a plan to find the next big thing in boxing.
At an amateur night, they find a promising young boxer called Sid.
Taking him under their wings, his success leads to a life of glitz and glamour.
But is success and a winning streak the best thing for the young boxer?
Do the coaches really have his best interests at heart?
Join us for a show packed with charm, comedy and thought-provoking moments that are sure to have you laughing, and thinking.
Romance on Repeat
Romance on Repeat: Lizzie has always dreamed of a whirlwind romance like in the movies.
Her dream comes true when she is sucked into her TV set to be the star of her own romcom.
Everything is perfect: falling for the hometown hunk, denying her big-city boyfriend and reconnecting with her childhood best friend.
In fact, it’s too perfect.
Is this everything Lizzie really wanted?
Will she find true happiness?
Or will she break under the control of the omnipotent TV god?
Turn on, tune in and glitch out.
Good For You
'I knew this place would ruin my life, I just didn’t see it happening like this.' When a law firm is rocked by a sexual misconduct scandal, the office’s most coveted personal injury case is up for grabs.
A decision made in the "spirit of equality" pits Jeanie, Zara, and Summer, three qualified women attorneys, against each other, causing them to plot, scheme and strategise about how to triumph over the others.
Can they look past their insecurities and work towards progress?
A fast-paced drama about office politics and women who think they hate other women.
Life’s a Drag
Three troubled queers walk into a dressing room: a seasoned veteran of the drag runway, a jaded queen cursed to always play second-fiddle and a newbie on the scene with a bold, confrontational attitude...
What could go wrong?
As these three queens clash whilst preparing for the finale of a popular drag reality TV competition, their producer tries desperately to get them runway ready.
Will they be able to confront their traumas in time for their show stopping performance?
It’s the most important night of their careers, and shit’s about to hit the fan.
Werewolf – The Game: The Show!
The town of Stubbins is plagued by a beast, one that roams at night, tearing through livestock, howling to the skies – a werewolf...
aka Derek, an awkward, loveable 16-year-old.
Derek doesn’t want to be a werewolf.
He’s been sneaking into the woods to transform in secret.
No one’s been harmed, but unless Derek finds a cure, it’s only a matter of time.
Time which he doesn’t have.
With a monster hunter arriving in town, Derek must find help before he’s discovered, or worse, someone is killed.
But is the “help” all that seems?
18-23 August.
Everyday Gaslighting / Get in the Zone!
Hosted by comedian Susan Morrison.
Dr Michael Stirrat (Edinburgh Napier University) explores what we actually know about the psychology of gaslighting in relationships.
Dr Shama Rahman (The University of Edinburgh) journeys through the brain’s most creative mental states in a quest for flow.
1 August.
Gender Fears / Haunted Mouths
Dr Roberto Kulpa (Edinburgh Napier University) discusses why people who reject gender equalities turn to homophobic, transphobic and anti-feminist fearmongers.
Dr Daphne Loads (The University of Edinburgh) explores the histories of words and discovers some disturbing truths about the things we say.
She asks, is your mouth haunted?
Disrupted Conversations / Knocks to the Head
Dr Bryony Buck (Edinburgh Napier University and University of Dundee) navigates non-verbal communications to support hearing loss.
Dr Michael Leavitt (Edinburgh Napier University) uncovers the costs of repeated head injuries in young athletes.
3 August.
A Grumpy Robot / Joyful Singing
Edinburgh Napier University researchers introduce Euclid the cantankerous robot with strong views on AI.
Dr Kat Lord (Queen Margaret University) and Stephen Deazley (Love Music) explore how inclusive singing in education creates joyful wellbeing.
7 August.
Robot Romance / Everyday Gaslighting
Franziska Heck (Edinburgh Napier University) explores the ethics and absurdity of artificial love and addictive chatbot relationships.
9 August.
Forensic Jewellery / Don’t Read the Classics!
Dr Maria Maclennan (The University of Edinburgh) follows the trail from jewellery to justice as the world’s first forensic jeweller.
Dr Andrew Frayn (Edinburgh Napier University) asks what makes classic literature and what focusing on those books makes us ignore.
11 August.
Voices of Hope / No Location, No Location, No Location!
Roseminu Varghese (Edinburgh Napier University) finds power in familiar voices for coma patients.
Nicola Osborne (The University of Edinburgh) imagines what stories we'll be watching as TV and film made with virtual production technologies make almost anything possible without ever leaving a studio!
13 August.
Compassion During Birth / Screw Up or Breakthrough?
Professor Yvonne Kuipers (Edinburgh Napier University) asks why women giving birth are shown so little compassion, surrounded by strangers and treated like they're on a conveyor belt in a baby factory.
Dr Lucy Remnant (The University of Edinburgh) shares the scientific breakthroughs that followed seemingly catastrophic mistakes.
14 August.
War Monsters / Don’t Read the Classics!
Hosted by comedian Jojo Sutherland.
Dr Lucy Hall (Heriot-Watt University and the Open University) explores ideas of monstrosity in World War II Britain to discover if we are really so different from the monsters we create.
15 August.
Bad Therapy / It All Went Wrong At Legs!
Hosted by comedian Jay Lafferty.
Clinical psychologist Dr Edel McGlanaghy (Edinburgh Napier University and NHS) and asks what’s gone wrong with psychological therapy and hopes the answer isn’t because therapists are weird.
Dr Cameron Wyatt (The University of Edinburgh) is convinced that zebrafish are superior to humans with amazing abilities that we lack – despite sharing 86% of our genes!
16 August.
Learn with Your Body / Knocks to the Head
Chris Purcell (Heriot-Watt University) reveals how learning can be achieved through movement rather than sitting at a desk.
18 August.
Cervical Smears / AI Economics
Hosted by comedian Ria Lina.
Dr Karissa Patton (The University of Edinburgh) explores medical and local histories of cervical health.
Dr Elena Papagiannaki (Edinburgh Napier University) unpacks how economists get AI wrong and the real impacts on work, capitalism and society.
19 August.
Power Cuts / Robot Romance
Dr Lars Schewe (The University of Edinburgh) is applying maths to prevent power cuts – by switching off powerlines.
He also wants to close roads to alleviate traffic jams and turn off pipes to improve gas and water supplies!
20 August.
Compassion During Birth / A Grumpy Robot
Hosted by comedian Sarah-Jane Judge.
22 August.
Women in Iranian Cinema / AI Economics
Professor Nacim Pak Shiraz (The University of Edinburgh) explores how women resist restrictions and reshape their world through the lens of Iranian cinema.
23 August.
Bad Therapy / Other People
Dr Mhairi Bowe (Heriot-Watt University) asks if other people are slowly killing you or the secret to long and happy lives?
24 August.
Fresh Words: Jenny Brown Debut Writers Over 50
It's lunchtime, and (hallelujah!) there's no need to doomscroll over a sad desk salad.
Be the first to discover the literary stars of the future, instead.
In partnership with Scottish Book Trust and other leading talent spotters across the UK, this lively lunchtime event showcases electrifying new voices, so grab your seat before everyone else does.
Today, we partner with the Jenny Brown Associates Debut Writers Over 50 Award and are joined by Susan Kemp, Margherita Still (MA Creative Writing at Edinburgh Napier), Caroline Grebbell (MA Creative Writing at Edinburgh Napier), Jade Mitchell and Robbie MacLeòid.
Digital Siblings
Farmingdale State College and Edinburgh Napier University
In this exhibition students of Farmingdale State College (SUNY) and Edinburgh Napier University showcase their explorations into mixed reality and visitor attractions.
Digital siblings are a range of interactive applications and products that create remote experiences with real spaces.
For this edition, the student interns have been exploring Jupiter Artland and considering what it would mean to digitally bring Fringe visitors closer to the sculpture park.
Expect to see novel prototypes and uses of interactive technology for bringing people and places together.
Join us for this one-night-only exhibition at our Merchiston Campus.
Panmure House Debates 2025 – AI and Education
As AI transforms how we learn and teach, this debate explores its impact on classrooms, educators and lifelong learners.
Set in Adam Smith’s historic home, ENU Lecturer Dr Megan Crawford joins fellow experts from education, tech and philosophy to ask: can AI enhance learning or diminish it?
And what values should guide AI in education?
Edinburgh Magic Circle Presents…
The Edinburgh Magic Circle is proud to present an evening of astonishing illusions, close-up miracles and magical mysteries!
Performed to you by some of the city's most talented magicians including our very own Head of Communications, Ross Burns.
Holst’s The Planets
The London Philharmonic Orchestra takes you on the ultimate cosmic journey.
Under the baton of principal conductor Edward Gardner, the London Philharmonic Orchestra returns to the Festival for the first time in a decade with a stunning programme.
The concert commences with Judith Weir’s Forest, an enchanting work with a fairytale character.
Then, the prodigiously gifted pianist Beatrice Rana performs Sergei Rachmaninoff’s Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini, a dazzling reimagining of Niccolò Paganini’s Caprice No.
24 for piano and orchestra.
Ending with a big bang, Gustav Holst’s The Planets takes you on the ultimate cosmic journey to explore our place in the universe.
Inspired by his love of astrology, Holst transformed each planet into a mythological character – from the fierce god of war, Mars, to the serene goddess of love, Venus.
This event is supported by Dunard Fund and Edinburgh Napier University, with additional support from the Consulate General of Italy and the Italian Institute of Culture in Edinburgh.
5 August.
Goose's Quizzes Elimination Game
Scotland's premiere quiz company, founded by ENU alumnus Andrew Wildgoose, triumphantly returns with the Elimination Game: Round Three!
Through a series of make-or-break questions that pit you against your fellow audience members, test your knowledge – and your luck – to see if you will face elimination, or be crowned champion!
Atlas of Scotland at West End Fair
Alumnus and illustrator Andrew Barr is exhibiting at the West End Fair this summer.
Scotland's premier craft, art & design fair and will run from 28 July - 24 August in the grounds of St John's Kirk, Princes Street.
Andrew will present his work, including hand-drawn maps and illustrations and his Atlas of Scotland book.
Got a show that you think should be in our guide?
Let us know by emailing social@napier.ac.uk!

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/must-be-napier:
#1 in student experience
For the fifth year running, Edinburgh Napier is number one in the capital for student satisfaction in the National Student Survey (NSS, 2024).
We offer world-class facilities, comfortable and safe accommodation, and comprehensive student support.
Learn more about student life here.
Central campuses
With three campuses in Edinburgh, we offer advanced facilities for learning, teaching and research.
Explore our campuses here.
Academic and research excellence
We comprise of five schools with an international focus, each committed to growing our academic reputation, delivering an excellent personalised student experience and building innovation, enterprise and citizenship.
We are a number one UK modern university for:
(The Times/Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024)
Learn more about our schools here.
#1 Modern University in Scotland
Ranked by Times Higher Education World University Rankings, we are the top Modern University in Scotland for 2025.
We were also named the 2024 Higher Educational Institution of the Year in Scotland at the sector’s premier awards, and won the Widening Access Award and Outstanding Contribution from a University Student as well as receiving a commendation in the Research Project of the Year category.
View more of our rankings here.
Napier - where buildings are built from ingenuity; and inspiration thumps like a steady drum.
It’s the place where you’ll find yourself; what you’re made of.
Whether you're a prospective student or staff member, industry partner or graduate employer, you've come to the right place.
Let's build a better future together.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/our-location/our-campuses:
We have three campuses across Edinburgh offering state-of-the-art facilities for learning and research.
All are easily accessible by public transport and home to diverse, international, collaborative communities.
Home to the Business School, Craiglockhart campus blends the old and the new.
Set within attractive grounds overlooking Edinburgh, facilities include 200- and 400-seat lecture theatres and language and multimedia labs.
Engineering and built environment, computing and creative industries students are based at Merchiston.
Here you’ll find the Jack Kilby Computing Centre, the Edinburgh Napier Students’ Association, a computer games lab, newsroom, TV, radio and photography studios and soundproofed industry-standard music studios.
Our Sighthill campus serves more than 5,000 students and staff of the School of Applied Sciences and the School of Health & Social Care.
Facilities include life-like hospital wards, a clinical skills suite, sports science labs and our [EN]GAGE sports centre.
[EN]GAGE is our state-of-the-art sports facilities, open to everyone.
With a gym, sport hall for hire and fitness classes across all our campuses, we provide a fitness experience that's fresh, invigorating and fun.
Screen Academy Scotland is a collaboration between Edinburgh Napier University and Edinburgh College of Art.
It provides full production and post-production facilities including screening rooms, Avid Media Composer suites, Pro Tool suites, a dubbing suite and up-to-date camera equipment.
Our campuses are available for weddings, meetings and corporate functions.
We also offer summer accommodation and access to specialist, industry-standard equipment.
Our three libraries provide millions of online resources as well as books and comfortable places to study –with computers, laptops to borrow and 24/7 access available.
Our outstanding Heritage Collections explore, explain and engage with the cultural history of Edinburgh and beyond.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/news/cornermen-edinburgh-fringe-bright-spark-award:
14:07
A group of Edinburgh Napier University acting students have claimed an industry award for an Edinburgh Festival Fringe show that packed a punch.
Starring Daniel John Doherty, Liam Scobie, Arran Hogg and Ruairi Francis McCormack – and directed by Lecturer David Wotton from ENU’s School of Arts & Creative Industries – Cornermen tells the story of a young boxer and the exploitation of his success.
Following a successful run at theSpace on the Mile throughout this month, the cast have been presented with the coveted ‘Bright Spark’ award by The Scottish Theatre Awards on the Fringe.
Awarded every year by the Scottish Arts Club, the prize recognises Scottish actors or theatre-makers just embarking on their career, with the winner selected by a panel of expert judges.
Put on by in-house company Authentically False Productions, Cornermen stood out from the crowd of theatre acts on show across the city during August, drawing praise for its ‘assured performance’ .
Responding to their award win, Daniel, Liam, Arran and Ruairi said: "We are all absolutely thrilled to have won the 'Bright Spark' award at our first foray into the professional theatre world after our training at Edinburgh Napier University.
“The hard work and dedication we put into Cornermen has paid off and we couldn't be prouder to represent Edinburgh Napier and the Scottish theatre scene in this way.
“Hopefully, this award will be a great kick start to our career.
We'll always remember this moment, this award and this training."
Cornermen director David Wotton said: "It's awards like this that highlight our department and the hard work we do to make sure our training actors thrive in such a competitive market.
“This award marks a year of dedication by the cast of Cornermen , Daniel John Doherty, Liam Scobie, Arran Hogg and Ruairi Francis McCormack, and our department.
“Year upon year our course has exceptional National Student Survey results, and industry recognition like this shows that Edinburgh Napier University is a great place for an actor to train.
“Directing these four talented actors has been so very rewarding.
It's great that the industry sees and appreciates the work and dedication shown by both our talented actors and staff alike."
Cornermen was one of many theatre productions put on by ENU students during the Edinburgh Festivals, which draw to a close this week.
It also follows previous shows such as Everything Under the Sun in being recognised by the industry.
You can find out more about following in the footsteps of shows like Cornermen by studying acting Edinburgh Napier University here .

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/news/a-dram-good-idea-turning-whisky-waste-into-sustainable-packaging:
10:37
University researchers will help turn whisky production leftovers into compostable packaging in a newly funded collaboration.
The project, MycoPack, is a collaboration between Arbikie Distillery, Edinburgh Napier University and the University of Dundee.
MycoPack combines innovation with sustainable design, turning waste into valuable packaging and supporting a circular economy.
It is one of 11 collaborative projects awarded funding by Scotland Beyond Net Zero, a collaboration between Scotland’s universities to support Scotland’s drive to net zero.
Arbikie Distillery have partnered with Dr Dongyang Sun, Edinburgh Napier University and Dr.
Wenbin Zhou, University of Dundee, to use mycelium, the root structure of fungi, and distillery by-products like spent grain to create durable, lightweight packaging.
The material created is impact-resistant, fire-retardant, and fully compostable, offering an eco-friendly alternative to plastic.
Over the next 10 months the project team will focus on proof of concept, testing the material and the design.
Dr.
Dongyang Sun , Lecturer in Engineering at Edinburgh Napier University said: “At Edinburgh Napier, we’re proud to pioneer sustainable biomaterials from underused resources.
“MycoPack lets us showcase how fungal composites and circular design can transform whisky by-products into protective packaging that’s beautiful, compostable, and low-carbon, delivering both environmental benefit and industry value for Scotland’s net zero transition.”
Kirsty Black, Distillery Manager said: “At Arbikie, sustainability is at the heart of everything we do.
Our collaboration with Edinburgh Napier and Dundee Universities on MycoPack represents an exciting step forward - combining innovation and purpose to create packaging made from mycelium that’s not only environmentally responsible but deeply aligned with our values.
“Together, we hope to pioneer solutions that respect the planet and inspire change across the industry.”
Funded by Scotland Beyond Net Zero – a coalition of leading climate and sustainability experts from Scotland's universities – this project is one of 11 new research collaborations aimed at accelerating Scotland’s transition to net zero.
Each project involves cross-sector collaborations to address sustainability challenges in energy, finance, food, the built environment, natural systems, and transport.
Professor Nick Forsyth, Chair of Scotland Beyond Net Zero’s seed fund panel said: "This is the second round of our seed fund, we have now supported 19 innovative and collaborative projects with a total of around £300k of funding.
“Each project involves at least two of our member universities and one external partner, including community groups, government bodies, and the private sector.
“This collaborative and integrated approach is crucial to us meeting Scotland's ambitious net zero targets.
We cannot achieve these targets in isolation, we must work together to innovative, inform and adapt."
Other funded projects involving Edinburgh Napier researchers include HI-SCOT, a collaboration between ENU, Robert Gordon University and Historic Environment Scotland, will focus on integrating photovoltaic (PV) technology into Scotland's historic buildings, addressing challenges with aesthetics, regulations, and public acceptance.
The initiative will explore how PV systems can blend with historic architecture.
Research will explore mimicking traditional materials and using coatings to minimise visual impact, creating guidelines for Scotland's historic architecture.
ENU is also partnering with the University of Edinburgh and Trimble Inc.
for Beyond Net Zero Built, a project looking to improve building performance with the use of digital twinning.
Researchers will create data rich digital twin models of two small scale existing buildings which will then be tested with using the latest augmented reality technology.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/news/criminal-justice-in-scotland-book-published:
10:45
The first book in a decade to focus entirely on Scotland’s criminal justice system has been published.
Written by three criminology lecturers from ENU’s School of Applied Sciences – Dr Jamie Buchan (top profile picture), Dr Sarah Anderson (middle) and Dr Katrina Morrison (below) – Criminal Justice in Scotland gives an overview of the key institutions of Scottish criminal justice, how they work and some of the key controversies surrounding them.
The textbook has been inspired by the authors' experience of teaching criminology, and the difficulties students face in finding the information they need about Scotland's distinctive criminal justice – as many UK-wide equivalents confine discussion of Scotland to a single chapter, if they mention it at all.
Criminal Justice in Scotland includes critical questions, structured further reading and reflections on key contemporary issues, such as the debate around the rule of corroboration in Scottish courts.
It also includes a chapter on Scotland's unique position with respect to transnational policing and crime control, as well as the first textbook chapter dedicated to Scottish financial penalties since 1999.
Although primarily aimed at university students in Scotland, the book is intended to be of wider use to members of Scotland's legal and criminal justice community and to anyone seeking an up-to-date guide to Scottish criminal justice.
A formal launch event for the book is planned for the autumn.
Co-author Dr Jamie Buchan said: “From social work to the courts, and from prisons to policing, Scotland’s justice system is distinct from the English and Welsh model often assumed to apply to the entire UK.
We believed it deserved its own comprehensive textbook.
“While this is primarily aimed at students in one sense, we also believe it has wider interest, as the first book in a decade to focus on the distinct characteristics of Scotland’s criminal justice system.
“The last ten years or so have seen many significant developments across Scottish criminal justice and beyond, such as the abolition of child imprisonment in Scotland, the 2016 Brexit referendum and the Covid-19 pandemic.
So it’s a good time to pull it all together.”
The book builds on Edinburgh Napier University’s strong track record of criminology research.
It follows last year’s publication of The Barlinnie Special Unit , a collection of reflections on a radical approach to rehabilitation taken by the prison in Glasgow, which was edited by ENU’s Dr Kirstin Anderson.
ENU will host Scotland’s only Policing Academic Centre of Excellence , which will be launched in collaboration with the National Police Chiefs' Council later this year.
Criminal Justice in Scotland co-author Dr Katrina Morrison is also involved in ongoing research funded by the Chief Scientist Office to investigate the effects of Scotland’s justice system on public health – focusing on key areas of prisons and policing.
Anyone interested in studying criminology at Edinburgh Napier University can find out more here .

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/accessibility-statement:
Some of our PDFs and Word documents are essential to providing our services.
For example, we have PDFs with information on how users can access our services, and forms published as Word documents.
We aim to make this available in an accessible format by 30 June 2026.
The accessibility regulations do not require us to fix PDFs or other documents published before 23 September 2018 if they’re not essential to providing our services.
If you require this content in a different format please contact us.
When we publish new PDFs or Word documents we’ll make sure they meet accessibility standards.
Existing video content We have pre-existing video on this website.
This video contains captions but does not have audio descriptions or a transcript, or uses a third party captioning function that is not always accurate.
The accessibility regulations do not require us to fix issues with video content published before 23 September 2020 .
When we publish new video content we’ll make sure videos meet accessibility standards.
Third party embedded content
We are aware that some third party content appearing on our site does not have titles that are accessible to screen readers, for example student accommodation virtual tours.
As this functionality is provided by a third party supplier, it is outside of our control.
A good way to learn more about the technical accessibility of a third-party platform is to review the accessibility statement for the platform provided by the supplier searchBOX , a centralised, independent directory of third-party accessibility information.
This statement was prepared on 17 December 2020.
It was last reviewed on 24 June 2025.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/privacy-policy:
Edinburgh Napier University is, and always has been, committed to respecting your privacy and protecting your personal information.
As the Data Controller of the personal data we collect, we have policies, procedures and privacy notices in place under the UK Data Protection Act 2018 and UK General Data Protection Regulation (UK-GDPR) (which together are referred to as the “Data Protection legislation” below).
For more information on what information we use and how we collect and use it, please see our Data Protection pages using the following links:
By using our Website you understand and agree to the collection and use of your information as outlined in this Privacy Policy.
If this statement is changed we will post these changes on this page .
If you have any questions regarding the use of your personal data or want to know more about your rights under the legislation or how the University complies with the legislation please contact the Data Protection Officer at dataprotection@napier.ac.uk .
If you submit personal information to us, for example your name and email address, we may link this information with any other information we have collected about you.
If you choose to contact us by other methods e.g.
email, phone, letter, etc.
we will also process your personal data to respond to you and provide any services or goods in connection with your contact/enquiry/request.
Please see our Privacy Notices for more specific information.
We may engage in marketing activities which use your personal data.
This could include sharing data with third party operated social networks such as Meta, where this information is matched against the social network’s own databases in order to provide you with the most relevant information.
The details you provide will not be used for advertising purposes unless you have expressly consented to having your details used in this way.
These statistics are very much like television ratings that tell the networks how many people tuned in to a particular programme.
We only use this type of data in aggregate i.e.
we look at the data collectively, in summary form, rather than on an individual basis.
Read more about Supermetric's security and data privacy commitments.
Please view the University's Statement on the Use of Cookies for detailed information on the cookies we use and the purposes for which we use them.
The legal bases the University relies upon primarily are:
We may disclose your personal information:
Accepting this statement acknowledges that we will not be responsible for damages you or any others may suffer as a result of the disclosure of your personal information in accordance with the above.
Edinburgh Napier University is concerned about the security of your personal information particularly when using our Website.
Although we have taken all reasonable security precautions, we cannot guarantee internet security and subsequently cannot guarantee that any information you input on our Website is totally secure.
In addition to our online security efforts, we have taken steps to protect your personal data offline as well.
All of your information is restricted to our offices.
Employees are granted access on a need-to-know basis and are kept up-to-date on our security and privacy practices.
Our Website may, from time to time, contain links to and from other websites.
If you follow a link to any of these websites, please note that these websites have their own privacy policies and that we do not accept any responsibility or liability for these policies.
We also have a press news list which you can join by emailing EdNapierNews@Napier.ac.uk .
To unsubscribe from this list email EdNapierNews@napier.ac.uk with REMOVE in the subject line.
We maintain a database of our alumni and proactively keep them engaged about our alumni services.
Find out more about how the University handles alumni data at: https://www.napier.ac.uk/alumni/privacy-notice .
Please note that by registering for an event via a service such as Eventbrite (which will host your data out with the EEA), Bookitbee or TicketTailor (which will host your data in the EEA) you will be supplying your personal data to the company/website and as such you are accepting and consenting to the practices in their Privacy Policies.
Edinburgh Napier University is not affiliated with these companies/websites in any way and is using their services solely for the purposes of facilitating event ticketing and registration and does not accept any responsibility or liability for personal data which you have chosen to provide to such third party sites.
Privacy Notices for Students, Staff and all other ‘layered’ Privacy Notices can be accessed online here .
For further information, please see the University's Data Protection Policy Statement
Governance Services
Edinburgh Napier University
Sighthill Campus
EH11 4BN
Email: dataprotection@napier.ac.uk
Last updated: March 2025

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/cookie-policy:
Cookies are small text files that are, with your agreement, placed on your computer by the websites you visit.
They can be used to improve website performance, remember your preferences and help us to promote our events and courses to you on other websites, based on what you’ve looked at.
There are four main categories of cookie:
Most web browsers allow some control of most cookies through the browser settings.
To find out more about cookies, including how to see what cookies have been stored on your browser or hard drive and how to manage and delete them, visit All About Cookies .
Please be aware that if you if you use your browser settings to block all cookies (including essential cookies) you may not be able to access all or parts of certain websites.
Edinburgh Napier University uses cookies to distinguish you from other users of our website by collecting standard internet log information, e.g.
IP address, browser type and date and time the site was visited, and details of visitor behaviour patterns.
Our internal website for staff also uses cookies.
We use the following types of cookies:
We use the TikTok pixel to target our marketing campaigns, provide us with statistics to improve our marketing and provide TikTok users with information which is useful and appropriate to them based on their browsing activity, preferences and demographic information.
The TikTok pixel is a piece of JavaScript code that enables us to understand how many TikTok users have acted after seeing one of our adverts.
It also allows us to tailor our marketing campaigns on TikTok to users who have previously shown interest in the University on our websites, or who click on our advertisements seen on the TikTok platform and display the most relevant advertisements to them on TikTok.
Collecting data allows TikTok to report on marketing activity and understand the demographic of TikTok users (“audience”) who are interested in the University and courses.
TikTok will also serve our adverts on the TikTok platform to users who fit a certain demographic profile.
The TikTok pixel will capture browser level information including:
View the full statement on how we use TikTok .
We use the Snapchat pixel to target our marketing campaigns, provide us with statistics to improve our marketing and provide Snapchat users with information which is useful and appropriate to them based on their browsing activity.
The Snapchat pixel is a piece of JavaScript code that enables us to track conversion, in essence telling us how many Snapchatters have taken action after seeing one of our Ads.
It also allows us to tailor our marketing campaigns on Snapchat to users who have previously shown interest on our site, and display the most relevant Ads to them on Snapchat.
This 'audience' information will be stored for 30 days by Snapchat then deleted.
We use Microsoft Universal Event Tracking (UET) to target our marketing campaigns, provide us with statistics to improve our marketing and provide Bing users with information which is useful and appropriate to them based on their browsing activity.
The UET is a piece of JavaScript code that enables us to track conversion, in essence telling us how many Bing users have taken action after seeing one of our Ads.
It also allows us to tailor our marketing campaigns on Bing to users who have previously shown interest on our site, and display the most relevant Ads to them on Bing.
We use the Facebook pixel to track conversions on our marketing campaigns.
The pixel is a small piece of code that allows Facebook to see what information is being viewed by users logged into their service.
We can then use this information to provide relevant ads to users based on the content they were interested in.
Consent cannot automatically be revoked, but you can opt out on the Facebook site .
View Facebook’s cookie policy .
We also use custom audiences based on personal information, such as email addresses, of prospective students, including applicants and enquirers.
We do this to present you with information about studying at Edinburgh Napier University, and to identify people with similar interests who may also find it useful.
For more information on how we manage personal data, please refer to the Privacy Policy .
We use the Blis pixel to track conversions on our marketing campaigns from ads placed on their media platform.
The pixel is a small piece of code that allows Blis to see what information is being viewed by users of their service.
They then use this information to provide relevant ads to users based on their behaviour.
Read more about Blis's commitment to privacy.
We use the Quantcast pixel to track conversions on our marketing campaigns.
The pixel is a small piece of code that allows Quantcast to see what information is being viewed by users logged into their service.
They then use this information to provide relevant ads to users based on the content they are interested in.
Read more about Quantcast's privacy policy.
We use StackAdapt to track activity and events of users who click digital advertisements served via StackAdapt that lead to our website.
Activity and events are tracked to optimise campaign performance.
Contextual targeting (serving ads to those on relevant websites) is used.
StackAdapt is a digital advertising platform that specialises in multi-channel paid ad solutions, including native, display, video, connected TV, audio, and in-game ads.
View the StackAdapt privacy policy .
We use Google products to see how our site is used and to target ads to those searching for products we offer.
View Google’s cookie policy .
We use Google Analytics to help us understand how visitors use our website.
A cookie is set the first time a user visits our website and expires after two years.
If you would like to prevent your data being used by Google, you can do so using a web browser add-on.
Please see here for more information: Google Analytics Opt-out Browser Add-on Download Page .
Google cookies include:
We use Google Tag Manager to track specific on-page activities, such as clicks, course searches and enquiry form submissions.
Personal data from enquiry forms is stored securely in a Customer Relationship Manager (CRM) and not shared with any third parties as part of this tracking.
These ads appear at the top of Google search results (they’re the ones with “Ad” next to them) if you have searched for something we’re promoting (e.g.
Clearing and Open Days).
We use cookies to track how many people click through to our site from these ads.
Again, no personally identifiable data is collected in this type of tracking.
Consent can’t automatically be revoked but you can opt out / change your ad settings on the Google site .
Google Display and Video 360 (DV360)
We use Google DV360 to place ads across a range of platforms.
A pixel on our site allows the monitoring of which ads are generating visits to our site.
Hotjar allows us to see visually how people use our site through heatmaps and recordings.
It also allows us to see how many users follow predicted navigation routes (funnels) through our website and gives us a chance to ask them questions via short polls and surveys.
This information is then used to help us improve the overall user experience of our site.
You can opt out of this tracking on the Hotjar website .
Hotjar uses the following cookies:
We use the Sitecore content management system (CMS) to power our website.
It uses the following cookies to identify repeat visits from a single user and check if they are logged in:
Edinburgh Napier developed their own video service which is used to host content produced by staff and lecturers that we wouldn’t otherwise host on YouTube.
It uses the following cookie:
We host a blog service for staff and students powered using the WordPress content management system (CMS).
The service features cookies that allows users to log in and also to monitor activity of users on the website, including:
We embed videos from our official YouTube channel using YouTube's privacy-enhanced mode.
This mode may set cookies on your computer once you click on the YouTube video player, but YouTube will not store personally-identifiable cookie information for playbacks of embedded videos using the privacy-enhanced mode.
Find out more about YouTube's privacy-enhanced mode .
We have no control over cookies used by third parties such as Google Analytics or YouTube.
If you are concerned about cookies used by third parties, please visit All About Cookies to see how to control cookie usage.
Edinburgh Napier University is committed to protecting your privacy.
View our privacy policy which sets out the basis on which your personal information is collected, processed and used.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/document-centre:
This comprehensive resource allows you to search for any of the University’s publicly available documents.
These include strategies, plans, policies, procedures, guidance, and information.
You can search for a document below or browse the Document Centre by category.
Documents relating to our teaching, including academic regulations, our Ouality Framework, and information for external examiners.
Documents including the University's annual accounts, financial policies and information relating to procurement and insurance.
Information on University technology policies, user guides for devices and systems, and guidance on information security.
Documents relating to the Fellowship of Advance HE and ENRoute, our professional recognition framework.
Information about the University's library services and resources, and Edinburgh Napier's curated heritage collections.
Information relating to on-campus life, including car parking and booking meetings and conferences.
Documents relating to research activity at the University, including research ethics, knowledge exchange partnerships, and public engagement.
Documents relating to University timetabling, information related to student support, and details of student processes.
Documents relating to the governance of the University, including University Court.
Information and documents about the recruitment and working culture at Edinburgh Napier, including colleague benefits, health and wellbeing sevices, equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI), maternity and paternity policies, and the recruitment process.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/university-governance/freedom-of-information:
Introduction to the Guide to Information
Our Categories of Information page provides more details of the information available under the scheme, along with additional guidance on how the information falling within each category may be accessed.
Details of information available from Edinburgh Napier University through Freedom of Information legislation.
Wherever possible, information contained within our Guide is available from us free of charge where it can be downloaded from out website or where it can be sent to you electronically by email.
This site and its contents are protected by copyright.
The webpages may be viewed, printed or downloaded for personal, non-commercial use only.
EIRs complement the rights awarded under the FOI (Scotland) Act and give people the general right of access to environmental information
If the information you are seeking is not available under this publication scheme, then you may wish to request it from us.
All information covered by the publication scheme can be accessed through our website, or will be provided promptly following receipt of your request.
The Scottish Information Commissioner is responsible for enforcing and promoting the right to access information held by public authorities.
Good records management underpins compliance with the Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act 2002.
Edinburgh Napier University’s Library Services are required to make certain information available for re-use by members of the public.
The University Information Governance Group has been set up ensure that we deliver our statutory obligations and comply.
You can contact us for assistance with any aspect of our FOI guide and publications.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/university-governance/modern-slavery-statement:
Edinburgh Napier University Modern Slavery & Human Trafficking Statement Year ending 31 July 2024
This statement is made pursuant to section 54 (1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and sets out the steps that Edinburgh Napier University has taken during the financial year ending 31 July 2024 to ensure that slavery and human trafficking are not taking place in our supply chains, or in any part of our business.
This statement will be reviewed annually.
Our purpose is to deliver high quality education and research and to add value to the social, cultural and economic capital of the communities we serve.
We work at the leading edge of our academic disciplines in research, pedagogy and professional practice, developing highly valued graduates and delivering research outcomes that together transform communities.
Edinburgh Napier is an international university, home to over 21,000 students from 100 countries.
We are also a leader in transnational education and the largest UK provider of higher education in Hong Kong.
For procurement, Edinburgh Napier University is part of the Institutional Procurement (shared) Services provided by Advanced Procurement for Universities and Colleges (APUC) Ltd, the procurement Centre of Expertise for Scotland’s Universities and Colleges.
The University benefits from its close links with APUC in a number of areas within sustainable and responsible Procurement.
We contract with our suppliers for works, good and services in each of the three categories aligned to APUC’s Strategic Sourcing category structure:
Edinburgh Napier University employs a central procurement team of four full-time and three part-time members of staff which includes the following roles: Head of Strategic Procurement, two Lead Portfolio Procurement Managers, three Procurement Portfolio Managers and one Procurement Manager – Development.
The two Lead Portfolio Procurement Managers act as dedicated Procurement Business Partners for a group of Schools and Departments.
The embedded procurement team is employed directly by APUC, as part of an extended shared service agreement.
Through this approach the University benefits from the flow of sustainable procurement best practice to internal procurement processes.
A sizeable proportion of our procurement is with suppliers who are pre-approved either by a purchasing consortium or through public tenders managed by our procurement team.
In relation to vetted suppliers, we use collaborative framework agreements wherever practicable, awarded by APUC or other sectoral and national procurement consortia (Crown Commercial Services; Scottish Procurement, etc.).
We are committed to acquiring goods and services for our use without causing harm to others and are committed to acting ethically and with integrity in all our business relationships.
The University has adopted tools and practices from APUC to address modern slavery and human trafficking including but not limited to prohibition of forced labour, prohibition of child labour and non-discrimination.
For all open tenders with a contract value above the Scottish Government threshold, the University uses the APUC template tender document (which includes full sustainable procurement references and a Modern Slavery Act compliance question).
As part of the tendering process, the University also adopts the amended Sustain Supply Chain Code of Conduct (whose principles cover Social Compliance including suitable and fair working conditions, Ethical and Environmental Compliance as well as Economic Development).
By signing and submitting to the Code of Conduct, bidders acknowledge their compliance with these principles.
The code also requires suppliers to the University to ensure that their own suppliers adhere to the same principles, to enforce and promote these practices throughout their own supply chain.
In addition, for all open tenders with a contract value above the EU threshold, we require bidders to complete the Single Procurement Document (Scotland).
In completing this, bidders declare that they have not committed any offence under Part 1 of the Human Trafficking and Exploitation (Scotland) Act 2015 or under any provision referred to in the Schedule in that Act.
One of the key policies that the University has now formally implemented is the UK Living Wage Accreditation.
The University already met the UK Living Wage pay thresholds for all staff, however as part of the formal accreditation, the University now includes all contracted workers/suppliers that regularly work on our premises (more than two hours in any given day in a week for eight consecutive weeks) within the same pay thresholds.
A project was conducted to identify and negotiate in-scope contracts to ensure implementation of Living Wage rates throughout our supply chain.
The University has ensured that employees earn a fair wage that meets the costs of living, not just the Government minimum.
The University also adhere to all applicable working-hours regulations.
Edinburgh Napier University conducts a variety of due diligence checks across the organisation including with external partners it works with.
This includes for instance pre-agreement checks and questionnaires in relation to overseas student recruitment agents, and contracts which set out clearly the University’s expectations on the services (and limits to them) delivered to students.
As Edinburgh Napier University uses many national and sectoral framework agreements to let contracts, it is also relevant that APUC have undertaken prioritisation on framework agreements either led or promoted by APUC, to understand the key sustainable procurement risks and opportunities for each agreement, which includes possible labour concerns.
This helps APUC to assess which agreements and suppliers should be audited on compliance with its Sustain Supply Chain Code of Conduct.
To assess suppliers’ compliance with the Sustain Supply Chain Code of Conduct, the procurement team use the Supply Chain Management portal (SCM) - the APUC web-based sustainable procurement tool which links to the HUNTER contracts database, containing contracts/agreements used by institutions throughout the HE and FE sectors.
ENU Suppliers have been invited to complete a set of questions which allows the University to verify that its contractors have published their own Modern Slavery statements.
The tool assesses suppliers over a variety of achievement/compliance levels in social, ethical, economic and environmental areas, including recruitment processes and employment terms for workforces.
The assessments are conducted by SA8000 trained staff within APUC’s Responsible Procurement team.
The tool enables procurement managers to view the status of their suppliers, and for sub-tier suppliers to be linked/assessed.
In order to further increase the transparency around suppliers’ responsible business performance, APUC has also chosen EcoVadis, a global Corporate Social Responsibility rating company based on international standards, to conduct individual sustainability performance assessments across all relevant areas of our supplier / supply chain community.
Suppliers receive a sustainability scorecard from EcoVadis with detailed insights into their strengths along with opportunities for improvement.
The roll out of the service to the Strategic Sourcing team started in August 2021 and has been made further available to client institutions to use with Edinburgh Napier University being one of the early adopters to use the service.
New suppliers are requested to engage with EcoVadis and look at improvement programmes where their scores are amongst the lower quartiles.
By virtue of its membership of APUC, Edinburgh Napier University is a Consortium Affiliate Member of Electronics Watch, an independent monitoring organisation working to achieve respect for labour rights in the global electronics industry through socially responsible public purchasing in Europe.
The Head of Strategic Procurement at ENU sits on the Board of Trustees of Electronics Watch.
The principal areas that have been highlighted by the sector as being potentially high risk in terms of Modern Slavery are those with a greater percentage of agency workers or outsourced services such as Construction, Hospitality and Cleaning Services.
To address this, the University has taken additional steps within our local agreements which may fall into a higher risk category.
With regards to staffing departments where there is an elevated risk of modern slavery and human trafficking Edinburgh Napier University employs directly nearly all catering, cleaning and security staff on our main campuses with the exception of cleaning in Student Accommodation.
These areas are managed by Property and Facilities Services via dedicated team leaders.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/university-governance/making-a-complaint:
All registered students have the right of access to the services provided by Edinburgh Napier Students' Association or members of staff from ENSA Advice .
We recommend that you make an appointment if you want to meet in person.
Drop-in sessions may be available, but there is no guarantee you will be able to see someone straight away, or even on the day.
Those who are not registered students may wish to seek support from the Scottish Independent Advocacy Alliance or Citizens Advice Scotland.
Details of our Complaints Handling Procedure can be found below.
It is presented in four parts with a supplementary guidance document.
Those wishing to make a complaint are welcome to read all four parts of the procedure in full but for a quick overview of the process, it is recommended that the guidance document is used.
View our Complaints Handling Procedure here.
We recommend anyone making a complaint reads our Privacy Notice ahead of doing so.
There are some things we can’t deal with through our complaints handling procedure.
If other procedures or rights of appeal can help you resolve your concerns, we will give information and advice to help you.
If you are making a complaint on someone else’s behalf you will need their personal written consent.
In exceptional circumstances, we may be able to accept a complaint after the time limit.
If you feel that the time limit should not apply to your complaint, please tell us why.
We aim to resolve complaints quickly and close to where we provided the service.
This could mean an on-the-spot apology and explanation if something has clearly gone wrong, and immediate action to resolve the problem.
Where possible, your concerns should be raised with the relevant staff member, tutor, University representative or school office.
This can be done face-to-face, by phone, in writing or by email.
We will give you our decision at stage one in five working days or less, unless there are exceptional circumstances.
If you are not satisfied with the response we give at this stage, we will tell you what you can do next.
If you choose to, you can take your complaint to stage two of the complaints procedure.
You may choose to do this immediately or shortly after you get our initial decision.
Stage two deals with two types of complaint: those that have not been resolved at stage one and those that are complex and require detailed investigation.
We have a complaint form, which will help you to state your complaint clearly to us.
Although we will also accept complaints that are made in person or on the phone, we encourage you to complete the complaint form in the interests of clarity and in order to best assist the investigation process.
When using Stage two we will:
If our investigation will take longer than 20 working days, we will tell you.
We will agree revised time limits with you and keep you updated on progress.
Occasionally, the behaviour of individuals using our complaints procedure may make it very difficult for us to deal with their complaint.
In a very small number of cases, the behaviour becomes unacceptable because it involves abuse of our staff or our processes.
When this happens we have to take action to protect our staff.
Our unacceptable actions policy explains how we will approach these situations.
In line with the requirements of the Complaints Handling Procedure a quarterly report is produced for the University’s senior management as follows:
Internal annual reporting on complaints is done as part of the annual report on Complaints and Student Conduct which is presented to University committees including Academic Board and Court.
The paper is presented to these committees as they meet between the January and July which follow the end of the academic year the previous August.
We have also published a statistical report on complaints received in 2018/19 , 2019/20 , 2020/21 , 2021/22 , 2022/23 , 2023/24 .
Tel: 0131 455 2396 Email: complaints@napier.ac.uk
Edinburgh Napier Students' Association Room B3 Merchiston Campus Edinburgh EH10 5DT
Tel: 0131 229 8791 Email: ensa@napier.ac.uk
ENSA Advice Room B34 Merchiston Campus Edinburgh EH10 5DT
Tel: 0131 229 8791 Email: ensa.advice@napier.ac.uk
If you have trouble putting your complaint in writing, or want this information in another language or format, such as large font, or Braille, please tell us in person, contact us on 0131 455 2396 or email us at complaints@napier.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/service-status:
Network
Library Eresources
HR Connect Self Service
eStudent Records
SITS
Panopto
HR Connect People Manager
Napier Website
MyAccount
Email
SharePoint
Moodle
Printing
PC Suites
Telephones
WiFi
Virtual Desktop
Network Drives
Turnitin UK Service
Online Video Service
MyNapier 'Dashboard'
myTimetable
Novi
AppsAnywhere
Webex
Online Video Server (Medial)
Unidesk
Resource Booker
Staff Intranet
Agresso
Planned Maintenance
@EdNapITSupport
© 2015 Edinburgh Napier University

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/work-with-us/fair-work-statement:
Fair Work First is the Scottish Government’s flagship policy for driving high quality and fair work across the labour markets in Scotland by applying fair work criteria to grants, other funding and contracts being awarded by and across the public sector, where it is relevant to do so.
This statement has been jointly developed and agreed by Edinburgh Napier University (ENU) and our recognised Trade Unions, EIS and Unison.
It highlights the actions being taken at ENU and how they align with the Fair Work Principles.
We are committed to working in partnership with our Trade Unions to deliver these actions for the benefit of our colleagues.
Where possible, we will seek to go beyond the minimum requirements.
We are committed to ensuring that we have Fair Working Practices in place and to advancing the Fair Work First criteria, specifically:
Investment in Colleague Development
No Inappropriate Use of Zero-hour Contracts
Offer Flexible and Family Friendly Working Practices for all Workers from Day One of Employment
Oppose the Use of Fire and Rehire Practice
Payment of at least the Real Living Wage
Carolann Begbie Director of People, IS and Student Services
Date Statement agreed: Statement Review Date: June 2025.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/work-with-us/why-edinburgh-napier:
With more than 19,500 students from over 130 countries, strong industry links and more than half of our research rated as world leading or internationally excellent we are a collaborative, innovative, forward-thinking global community.
Based in an iconic, prosperous city and a stunning, ambitious forward thinking country, Edinburgh Napier is a great place to live, work and study.
Edinburgh Napier comprises six schools with an international focus, each committed to growing our academic reputation, delivering an excellent personalised student experience and building innovation, enterprise and citizenship.
We build strategic partnerships at home and across the world, making our programmes increasingly accessible and developing our global education delivery.
More than half of our research is at an international level, according to the 2014 Research Excellence Framework.
Have a browse through our jobs listing - we have a range of roles.
You’ll find full details of each vacancy and a designated recruitment contact is assigned to each role to support you through the application process.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/our-strategy:
Introducing our new Strategy
Our core purpose as a University has not changed, and arguably has never been more important.
Our new strategy – Shaping our Future: Driving Distinctiveness – sets out how we will enhance and strengthen our impact, and play our part in the recovery, success and sustainability of Scotland and beyond.
Our strategy has been drawn from a deep understanding of who we are, where we are and what we stand for.
Through it, we will continue to build on the foundations and progress achieved through Strategy 2020.
Incorporating three new strategic objectives underpinned by a commitment to sustainability, it outlines the areas where we’ll sharpen our focus and increase our emphasis, while continuing to deliver our core activities and remaining responsive to a rapidly changing world.
'Deliver high quality education and research to add value to the social, cultural and economic capital of our communities and shape their development'
'Shaping our Future: Driving Distinctiveness’ was approved as the new University strategy in March 2020 after a comprehensive engagement exercise.
When we consider our purpose, it is clear this strategy and its themes are as important as ever as we play our part in the post-pandemic recovery and deal with the significant challenges facing our local, national and international communities, as well as the world as a whole.
The key elements of our strategy are brought to life in the sections below, but you can also access a summary pdf version of the strategy here:
- Create Opportunities
Our culture of personal growth, coupled with our flexible, innovative and holistic learning environment, will enable students and staff to shape their development and flourish in their careers.
- Connect Communities
Creative collaborations locally, nationally and internationally will provide an educational and research portfolio that both shapes and responds to the needs of business and society.
- Deliver Impact
Our research and knowledge exchange will address 'live' challenges, underpin our teaching and influence professional practice and policy, driving key societal, economic and environmental impacts.
-Net Zero 2030
We will grow and diversify our income and take progressive action to achieve net zero carbon in our operations by 2030.
We will also seek to minimise both our wider and legacy carbon footprint and influence sustainable practices within and beyond our campuses.
Read more about our sustainability work
We are inclusive in our ethos, applied and collaborative in our approach.
We are based in Edinburgh, but with an international reach.
We have a breadth of disciplines and a size that enables people and ideas to connect.
With a heritage in teaching, a professionally-orientated portfolio and high quality research tackling 'live' challenges, we are making an impact locally, nationally and internationally.
We want to be recognised as acting with respect and integrity and creating an environment where everyone involved feels proud, confident, challenged and supported.
Our students
Will feel part of a diverse, accessible and inclusive academic community, which integrates leading advances in professional, vocational and academic practices encouraged to make a difference during their studies, while becoming equipped and connected for their future careers.
Our staff
Will have fulfilling careers and feel part of a collaborative, supportive, outward looking and externally connected community - creating, sharing and applying knowledge to positively impact individuals and society through teaching, research, enterprise and practice.
Our partners
Will recognise us as accessible, inclusive, trusted and purposeful collaborators that they both value and feel valued by, and seek as a partner of choice for mutual future benefit.
Our Driving Distinctiveness strategy is designed to be short, simple and engaging.
It is expressed as a set of open ended strategic objectives, with accompanying transformative actions and headline measures of successes.
Its delivery is underpinned by our core Learning & Teaching, Research & Innovation and Internationalisation strategies, further enabling strategies related to our People & Services and Finance & Operations, as well as our Environmental Sustainability Strategy.
The delivery of the objectives from these cross-cutting strategies will be embedded through the annual University planning process, with associated key performance indicators to help us track our progress.
If you are a member of staff you can find further details of planning priorities and associated resources to help you contribute to the implementation of our strategy on the intranet, otherwise if you have a comment, idea or are interested in being involved in Shaping our Future, please get in touch .

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/facts-and-figures:
At Edinburgh Napier University, we believe in the importance of making a difference.
While we’ve risen in rankings and grown in scope over the years, we’ve stayed true to our heritage as an applied technical institution.
For our students and researchers, this means that learning and discovery doesn’t just take place in the lab or the classroom, it happens in the real world.
That’s what makes us different.
Year on year, we deliver personalised education, work-related learning and innovative research that matters—making positive change not just a distant goal but a daily reality.
The University
Five academic schools : Applied Sciences; Arts & Creative Industries; Business School; Computing, Engineering & the Built Environment; Health & Social Care.
Three campuses : Craiglockhart, Merchiston , Sighthill.
16 specialist research centres .
Over 20,000 students from more than 145 countries: 73% on campus in Edinburgh, 14% studying online, and 13% studying for an Edinburgh Napier degree at a partner university.
1,816 academic and professional services staff.
Education and employability
We graduated nearly 6,000 students in Edinburgh and overseas in 2023/24.
Top 5 UK modern university for career prospects (Guardian University Guide 2025).
Home to more than 450 graduate apprentices across Computing, Engineering and Business.
Over 90% of full-time undergraduate students engage in work-related learning opportunities each year.
97% of undergraduate students and 98% of our postgraduate students are in work or further study 15 months after graduation (HESA 2021/22).
13% of our full-time undergraduate entrants are from SIMD20 postcodes.
We’re the only university in Scotland to offer all four fields of nursing and midwifery registration education, and we train nearly 1,000 new NHS nurses and midwives every year.
Since 2012, our distance learning platform, Global Online, has delivered 16 programmes to over 7,900 students.
76% of our academic staff hold Advance HE Fellowships.
Network and communities
We are the lead partner in the award-winning Edinburgh-based collaborative project, HUB for SUCCESS, which helps people with care experience get into and stay in education.
We host the world-first Mountain Bike Innovation Centre for Scotland, which assists businesses to capitalise on one of Scotland’s fastest growing adventure sports.
Our Business School achieved AACSB accreditation in 2023—only 6% of business schools worldwide have this distinction.
We were the first university in Scotland to receive a gold award from the MOD’s Defence Employer Recognition Scheme for our educational support and commitment to the armed forces community.
We are a key partner in a £6m award by the UKRI Industrial Decarbonisation Challenge to accelerate the decarbonisation of UK industry.
We deliver Transnational Education with academic partners in China, Hong Kong, Myanmar, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Switzerland and Vietnam.
Research and impact
We are t wice winners of the Queen’s University Prize (2009/2015).
In 2023, Computing professor Bill Buchanan OBE was named Most Innovative Teacher of the Year at the Times Higher Education Awards – the ‘Oscars of UK higher education’.
We’ve increased our income from research and knowledge exchange activities by 40% since 2020/21.
Nearly 700 business start-ups have been supported by our enterprise incubator Bright Red Triangle since 2014.
We were the first UK university to have both undergraduate and postgraduate course options certified by the National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) and we received an NCSC Gold award in 2023 for our contributions to cybersecurity.
We are a top 10 UK university and second in Scotland for generating successful spin-out companies (Octopus Ventures 2023).
We are home to the world’s first PhD in Surf Therapy.
Sustainability
Top university in Scotland for environmental and ethical performance two years running according to the People and Planet University League (2021 & 2022).
We’ve achieved a 27% reduction in net carbon emissions since 2018/19 and 4,671 tCO2e carbon emissions against a target of 5,138 tCO2e in 2022/23--and we’re on track to achieving net zero in our operations by 2030.
We co-founded the world leading Mikoko Pamoja conservation and restoration project in Kenya which won a United Nations honour in 2023.
In 2023, 13 Edinburgh Napier students were part of the team that built a world-first bamboo-timber grid structure in China.
We're the #1 modern university in Scotland (Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2025), the #1 university in Edinburgh for student satisfaction (NSS 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023 & 2024), and the top Scottish modern university for research power and impact (Research Excellence Framework 2021).
Be part of our story.
The University's strategic reports and financial statements are publicly available.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/work-with-us/external-examiners:
Our three campuses in Edinburgh, Scotland's capital city, provide state-of-the-art facilities for our diverse student communities.
Sighthill Campus, in the west of the city, is home to our School of Applied Sciences and School of Health & Social Care, while two Schools are located in our centrally-located Merchiston campus, namely the School of Arts & Creative Industries and the School of Computing, Engineering & the Built Environment.
As External Examiner, you will be responsible for provision in one of our five Schools.
To find out more about the School relevant to you, please refer to the following pages:
Some of our programmes are also delivered as Global Online provision or in partnership with one of our international partners as a Trans-National Education (TNE) programme.
You may be asked to be responsible for these deliveries as well as the on-campus deliveries, considering their commonalities and differences.
More information on our online offerings can be found on our Online Study pages .
You can read more about our TNE programmes .
In some schools we also deliver Graduate Apprenticeship programmes.
Find out more about our Graduate Apprenticeship programmes .
The University also has an International College (ENUIC) operated by Oxford International (OIEG) in partnership with Edinburgh Napier to provide foundation programmes for entry into a range of degree programmes.
External examiners are also required for the provision delivered through the International College.
Find out more about the Edinburgh Napier University International College .
Once your nomination as External Examiner has been confirmed by the School and by Quality & Standards, our School Quality and Accreditation teams will be in touch to provide you with the External Examiner Appointment Form, which you are required to submit.
Completion of this form, together with the External Examiners Declaration Form, is part of the appointment process and also confirms your acceptance of the role.
Human Resources will then contact you to arrange a right to work check which needs to be undertaken undertake before you can be confirmed as an External Examiner and added to our payroll system.
Following confirmation of your appointment, colleagues in the relevant School will be in touch with you to provide you with more information to support you in carrying out your role, including how to access relevant programme and module information and how moderation takes place at Edinburgh Napier.
You will be given a temporary password to log in to Edinburgh Napier’s systems which will enable you to access all the information you need about the programmes and/or modules that you are appointed as External Examiner for.
Our Information Services colleagues will be able to help you if you have any trouble setting up your password or accessing the system.
We want to support our External Examiners to carry out their role at Edinburgh Napier, and following your appointment, colleagues in the relevant School will contact you with key information related to the provision for which you are responsible.
If you have any questions or issues, they will be happy to help.
You will be provided with information to allow you to carry out the role of External Examiner, which includes the University’s Quality Framework , Academic Regulations and any relevant exemptions to these regulations, as well as information about the Scottish Qualification and Certification Framework (SCQF) , which is particularly important if you are not based in Scotland, to understand the context for Scottish Higher Education.
There is a particularly helpful document to compare SCQF levels with levels in the rest of the UK and Ireland .
We also provide induction materials to help support you in your understanding of key policies and procedures at the University.
Externality is a key principle of the recently-launched Tertiary Quality Enhancement Framework in Scotland, involving external specialists and peer review to enhance provision.
It is also an important element of the QAA’s 2024 Quality Code in areas such as the managing quality and standards, (Principle 1 of the Quality Code) and the monitoring, evaluation and enhancement of our provision (Principle 5 of the Quality Code).
Your role as External Examiner is therefore a vital part of our approach to quality at Edinburgh Napier, from reflection and advising on course assessment to considering and feeding back on marking and moderation, to involvement in our Programme Assessment Boards.
The reports you submit each year are carefully considered by our programme teams and Schools and reflected upon through our annual monitoring process.
Key themes identified through your reports are also discussed at University-level by key stakeholders across the University.
The role of External Examiners is described in our Academic Regulations, Section A10 .
As part of your role, we will ask you to comment on assessments to ensure that they are appropriate before asking students to undertake them.
Once students have submitted assessments and these have been marked and internally moderated, you will be asked to review a sample of student work, considering such aspects as the application of assessment criteria, consistency with comments provided as well as the feedback provided to students.
You may also be asked for your input into changes and developments to the provision for which you are responsible.
If you are a Programme External Examiner, you will be invited to attend our Programme Assessment Boards, held online each trimester.
While decisions at the Programme Assessment Boards are those of the Board as a whole, your perspective in these Boards is valuable and we hope that you will be able to attend these Boards along with other colleagues involved with the programme.
Should you be unable to attend, we would ask that you provide written input to be discussed at the Board so that your views are taken into consideration.
The reflection and feedback you provide in your annual reports is important to the University, helping us ensure that our provision is fit for purpose and provides our students with the best possible learning experience.
We ask you to provide us with feedback on a number of different areas and highlight good practice that you have identified as well as any areas where you can see opportunities for enhancement.
The report allows you to note any feedback at module or programme level as well as at University-level, and we will endeavour to respond to your points.
The University reflects on your feedback at module, programme, School and University-level, through our annual monitoring processes, and we will provide information on the key themes in the annual reports each year, which we hope will be informative.
Our External Examiner reports are made available to our students through their programme Moodle pages, so it’s important to be aware of this when completing the report.
In particular, we would ask that you don’t specifically mention students by name within your reports and would prefer also that staff members are not mentioned by name.
The report templates will be sent out to you by School Quality and Accreditation colleagues in plenty of time for completion.
The dates for submission of your report varies for undergraduate and postgraduate programmes to meet the requirements of the University’s reporting cycle but will generally be mid-July for undergraduate provision and the start of October for postgraduate provision.
Specific dates will be provided.
If you are responsible for both undergraduate and postgraduate provision, separate reports will be required, which should be submitted at the appropriate time.
Once the report is completed, please email it to your School contact (see School Contact details).
If you have any technical issues completing the report, please get in touch.
There may be exceptional occasions where you wish submit an additional short report to supplement your main report.
If this is the case, it should be in the form of an email sent to your School contact.
Following satisfactory submission of your annual report , processing of your fee payment will take place.
By accepting the role of External Examiner it is important that your duty of confidentiality in relation to student work and other personal information about students, staff and third parties is recognised.
You will be required to adhere to the provisions of the Data Protection Act 2018 and the University's obligations under the Act with regard to such data during your relationship with the University and after this has ended.
You can find out more information and guidance on the University’s Data Protection obligations from Governance Services , as well as the university's Privacy Policy .
You should also be aware that information contained in External Examiners' reports constitutes recorded information held by the University.
As such, these reports will be open to disclosure if requested by any person under the Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act 2002 subject to the exemption available under that Act in respect of personal data.
On occasions the names of specific External Examiners may also be requested and again the University would normally release this information.
We include the name, position and institution of External Examiners in student programme handbooks along with a statement to explain that the role of the External Examiner is to oversee the quality and standards of the provision and that no student should be entering into direct correspondence with the external examiner.
Should you have any concerns which you feel are not being addressed with appropriate action within the School, you have a right to raise any matter of serious concern with the Principal & Vice Chancellor, if necessary by means of a separate confidential written report.
If you have exhausted all published applicable internal procedures, including the submission of a confidential report to the head of the institution, you may invoke QAA's concerns scheme or inform the relevant professional, statutory or regulatory body.
Your annual fee payment follows receipt by your School of your annual report.
There are different processes for UK-based External Examiners and for those based overseas.
UK-based External Examiners
Non-UK based External Examiners
As our Programme Assessment Boards take place online, there is no requirement for you to travel to the University to take part in our Boards, however, should you incur expenses during the course of your external examining duties, please contact the School with which you work.
A completed expenses claim to the School at the return address shown on the form, attaching original VAT receipts.
Please note that debit or credit card receipts alone are not accepted.
If you have any queries about expenses claims, please get in touch with your contact in the School.
If you have any questions or concerns that are not addressed on these pages, please feel free to contact your School via the relevant email address listed below:
60.7KB

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/our-location/our-campuses/libraries-and-heritage-collections/external-members-and-visitors:
Find instructions on how to register using our ENU Online Store below.
Depending on your external membership category (see below), you may need to pay a yearly subscription of £40.
You must be 16 or over to join.
A refund may not be possible once membership has been approved.
You'll need photo ID and proof of a UK address, and payment is required when you apply.
You will be given a membership card (replacement library cards cost £5.00) which must be carried at all times on University premises.​
External users do not have access to electronic resources - under the terms of our licence agreements, we are unable to permit access to electronic resources.
External users cannot make requests, use interlibrary loans, computers or laptops for loan.
External members with borrowing privileges will be issued with a library card for the duration of their membership (1 year).
Members are entitled to borrow up to 5 books in total.
Cards are not transferable.
The card holder is responsible for all items borrowed on it and liable for any charges accrued for late return of items, and in the event of their loss or damage, for the cost of their replacement.
External members with no borrowing privileges will be issued with a library card for the duration of their membership (one year).
Access to books for reference only within the library.
This type of membership is free.
SCONUL members will be issued with a library card for the duration (defined by home institution) of their membership.
Who is eligible?
If you are:
and your university or college is a member of the scheme, you may be able to use the resources of our university libraries for reference only.
To apply, please visit SCONUL Access .
Information Services are required to process personal data of all persons registered with the library in order to facilitate their membership.
See: Library Membership - External Members Privacy Notice Library Regulations
For campus addresses and phone numbers, see Libraries and Heritage Collections .
Edinburgh Napier University Information Services make every effort to maintain the services described, but there are occasions when this may not be possible due to circumstances beyond our control.
Service to our University customers take precedence at all time.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/our-location/our-campuses/libraries-and-heritage-collections/craiglockhart-library:
Craiglockhart Library provides study spaces designed to suit a variety of learning styles.
Users can access PCs with extra-large screens or double screens, book group study rooms or use collaborative desks with plasma screens.
There are quiet or silent study rooms and access to power points throughout the library.
There is a wide variety of material which supports the diverse subjects taught on campus.
See Opening Hou rs .
Craiglockhart Library supports the following areas of study and research: Accounting,  Entrepreneurship, Financial Services, Human Resource Management Languages, Law, Marketing, Strategy, Operations and Economics, and Tourism
Edinburgh Napier University 219 Colinton Road Edinburgh EH14 1DJ
Library 24/7: 0131 455 3500, Craiglockhart Library: 0131 455 4260
library@napier.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/our-location/our-campuses/libraries-and-heritage-collections/merchiston-library:
Merchiston Library is a bright attractive environment providing study spaces designed to suit a variety of learning styles.
Zones 1 & 2 offer study space with study pods and circular tables, Zone 3 is our silent room, Zones 4 & 5 offer quieter study space around the book stock.
See Opening Hours .
Merchiston Library supports the following areas of study and research: Art and design, Digital & lens media, Built environment, Engineering, Computing, Information management and Music
Edinburgh Napier University 10 Colinton Road Edinburgh EH10 5DT
Library 24/7 number: 0131 455 3500, Merchiston Library: 0131 455 2582

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/our-location/our-campuses/libraries-and-heritage-collections/sighthill-learning-resource-centre:
Sighthill Learning Resource Centre supports the following areas of study and research: -Health & Social Care -Applied Sciences
Edinburgh Napier University Sighthill Campus Edinburgh EH11 4BN
Library 24/7 number: 0131 455 3500, Sighthill LRC: 0131 455 3400

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/people/faneela:
Doctorate

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/people/aamir-khokhar:
Lecturer
0131 455
                            2382
Dr Khokhar joined Edinburgh Napier University as a lecturer in Structural Engineering in 2013.
He completed his B.Eng.
(Hons) in Civil Engineering in Pakistan and acquired an MSc in Structures from University of New Brunswick (UNB), Canada and a PhD from Edinburgh Napier University (ENU), UK.
Khokhar has significant research experience in the area of timber engineering, attained in Canada and the United Kingdom.
At UNB, in collaboration with National Research Council Canada (NRC), He led large-scale research projects on improving the vibrational serviceability of wood floors and development of various engineered wood members.
He also carried out laboratory and theoretical based investigations to examine mechanical properties of solid timber beams at ENU.
His research work has been published in journals and prestigious peer-reviewed conferences on timber engineering.
Currently his research focuses on developing design criteria to control excessive vibration in wood floors by modifying the construction parameters in collaboration with institutions from Finland and Canada.
Research Groups
Research Areas
James Jones & Sons Ltd
£51297
This research will be conducted in collaboration with James Jones and Sons.
The aim is to conduct a research investigation to evaluate the influence of geometrical and numerical configurations of web ...
Scottish Government
£30000
This PhD project will investigate the influence of optimum effectiveness of construction parameters and level of fixity to obtain satisfactory vibrational performance timber floors built with long spa...

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/people/aaron-gilfillan:
Research Student
Master's Degree

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/research-search/phds/designing-a-digital-health-information-ecosystem-for-enhancing-patient-engagement-and:
2025
                                to
                             date
Doctorate (PhD)
0131 455 4771
F.Ryan@napier.ac.uk
0131 455 2730
A.Lawson@napier.ac.uk
Lecturer School of Health and Social Care
0131 455 4592
S.Khonsari@napier.ac.uk
0131 455 2655
N.Urquhart@napier.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/research-search/phds/bridging-the-strategy-data-gap-adopting-the-balanced-scorecard-to-enhance-data:
Professor Business School
0131 455 4438
M.Chipulu@napier.ac.uk
0131 455 4715
R.Osowska@napier.ac.uk
0131 455 4269
B.Sebian@napier.ac.uk
Associate Professor Business School
0131 455 4248
S.Bushfield@napier.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/research-search/phds/wildlife-tourism-marketing-and-sustainable-futures-exploring-the-influence-of-social:
0131 455 4412
C.Wight@napier.ac.uk
0131 455 2443
P.Arvanitis@napier.ac.uk
0131 455 4399
D.Jarman@napier.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/page-not-found:
We've recently relaunched our website, so some things may not be where they used to be.
Try searching for what you're looking for.
If you think we're missing something, click "Send us feedback" below and our Web Team will get back to you as soon as possible.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/study-with-us/undergraduate/meet-us/open-days:
Our next Edinburgh Napier Open Days are 20 September and 1 November 2025 for students looking to start university in 2026 and beyond.
ENU Open Days will run from 10am-3pm across all three of our campuses, with a chance to talk to lecturers and current students to explore your course options and get a feel for student life.
Until then, explore our Virtual Campus Tours online, or book a Face-To-Face Campus Tour to experience what studying at Scotland's Number One Modern University ( THE World University Rankings 2025 ) will really be like.
At an Edinburgh Napier University Open Day, you can:
Whatever you're looking for in a university, you'll find your community here.
Watch our video to hear more from our students.
Still got questions?
We've got answers.
Check the list below to learn more about what to expect at an Edinburgh Napier Open Day.
We have three campuses in Edinburgh , all accessible by public transport on the west side of the city:
Merchiston Campus : Engineering, Computing, Creative Industries
Sighthill Campus : Applied Sciences, Nursing, Sport Sciences
Craiglockhart Campus : Business School, Law, Marketing, Tourism
Parking near campuses is limited, so plan your journey in advance.
The Edinburgh bus network is first class for getting you around, with over 50 different routes crossing all over the city.
Our favourite is the number 36, which connects all three of our campuses to the city centre.
You can also get the tram to Sighthill campus, or walk to Merchiston within 30 minutes from Haymarket Station.
At an Edinburgh Napier Open Day , you can:
Explore your campus and join tours of student accommodation (book these on arrival as places fill quickly)
Attend course presentations relevant to your chosen subject area
Talk to lecturers about courses, chat with staff about support and facilities, and hear from Student Ambassadors about their experiences
Collect and keep a timetable to navigate the day easily
Take notes on important details like entry requirements and accommodation costs to help with your decision later
After your university open day visit , delve deeper into any courses that caught your interest by exploring our course pages for entry requirements, course structure, and career prospects.
Talk to family or friends who came with you about their impressions and make a pros and cons list for each university you visit, factoring in things like distance from home, facilities, accommodation and employment opportunities.
But don’t forget to trust your intuition about the community vibe and whether campus life feels like a good fit for you too.
Is it worth going to university open days?
Absolutely – it’s the best way to explore courses, facilities, and campus life before you apply.
Is there a difference between an Open Day and a campus tour?
Open Days include talks, tours, and meeting staff and current students, while campus tours are shorter visits to see facilities on other days.
What if I forget to ask an important question?
If you have any questions after your visit, just drop us an enquiry , keep an eye on your emails for our follow-up info, or chat to one of our students whenever you like.
We have a huge range of bachelors degree subjects at Edinburgh Napier University.
Popular choices often include: Business, Computing, Engineering, and Healthcare or Nursing.
These subjects offer hands-on learning, industry placements, and strong post-graduation pathways.
Whatever you choose, you’ll study in a supportive, career focused environment in the beautiful city of Edinburgh.
Your potential is unstoppable.
Explore our courses and discover why we’re the right choice for your future.
Find your place at Edinburgh Napier University today.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-accounting-undergraduate-fulltime:
Edinburgh Napier is #1 Modern University in Scotland (Times' World University Rankings 2025).
Accounting is so much more than crunching numbers, it is the backbone of any business, and with the advances of technology and AI, it guarantees an exciting career.
On this course, you will develop your accounting, finance and general business skills, including the various techniques and policies relating to corporate finance, reporting, statistics, and governance; tax; auditing; and management accounting.
In addition, you’ll gain transferable skills, such as time and project management, communication, data collection and management, as well as IT skills that will future-proof your career.
This highly regarded course is accredited by major UK accounting institutes and is designed to prepare you for a range of careers.
The course is run by our experienced academic staff who have strong industry connections and invite guest speakers from the public and private sectors regularly.
Edinburgh is one of the UK’s most prominent financial hubs, and thanks to Edinburgh Napier University’s industry links, you’ll be able to benefit from many internship, networking and employment opportunities.
Should you choose to go down the entrepreneurial route instead, the Bright Red Triangle – our start-up incubator with certified business advisors and a co-working space – is here to support you in achieving your dream every step of the way.
Full-time (Available as part-time )
(Available as part-time )
4 years
Sep
N400
I’ve just qualified as a chartered accountant and started my dream job.
It feels like I’m on cloud nine.
Edinburgh Napier made it all possible: they were always supportive throughout my studies.
Katy Sutherland
BA (Hons) Accounting graduate
I went on an Entrepreneurship Exchange in Germany, within an optional module.
I saw I could apply my knowledge to something I love and now I work in Germany for a start up.
Meg McGinlay
You'll study six modules, over two trimesters, per year.
You'll learn by a variety of teaching methods including lectures, tutorials, workshops, directed learning and independent study.
We also partner with industry organisations to provide a select number of summer internships for students in year three of our programme.
We also support students in finding their own summer internship opportunities.
On successful completion of Year 3, you'll be eligible for an unclassified degree, and on successful completion of Year 4, an Honours degree.
We offer tuition that is supported by experienced teaching staff with strong industry connections.
Guest speakers from the public and private sectors add value to the course.
Most importantly, this course is accredited by major UK accounting institutes including:
Accreditations from these accounting bodies highlight the relevance of this course for the modern business environment.
How will my degree reflect sustainability and sustainable development?
The Principles of Responsible Management Education (PRME) – established under the UN Global Compact – places a clear onus on Higher Education to ‘transform management education and develop the responsible decision-makers of tomorrow to advance sustainable development ’.
The Business School is a PRME signatory, and we seek to influence professional practice and policy nationally and internationally, helping to drive key societal, economic and environmental impacts.
Our mission is ‘to empower communities to apply business knowledge for positive societal impact’ and we work constantly to embed practical actions into our curriculum, to promote sustainability and relate these to the key ideas of sustainability, as reflected in the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG).
Our undergraduate and postgraduate programmes now reflect one or more of the SDG, and our research is targeted to solve real world problems, mapped against the criteria used in the Times Higher Education’s Impact Ranking.
The most recent annual league table for Sustainability - compiled by People & Planet, the UK’s largest student campaigning network - again places Edinburgh Napier in a top 3 position among Scotland’s 19 universities.
This reflects their assessment of our performance across a range of environmental and ethical considerations, which include carbon reduction and management, and education.
What is distinct about equality, diversity and inclusion?
Edinburgh Napier University is enriched by the diversity of perspectives, cultures and backgrounds brought by all within our global community.
We are committed to a positive environment where diversity and inclusiveness is celebrated and everyone is treated fairly regardless of sex, sexual orientation, gender reassignment, disability, age, ethnic origin, religion or belief, marital or civil partnership status or whether pregnant or on maternity leave.
We commit ourselves to providing a learning, working and social environment that is free from discrimination, prejudice, intimidation, stigmatisation and all forms of harassment and bullying.
The Business School's vision: 'To be the Business School for empowerment, enterprise and employability for all'.
Our mission statement : 'Empowering our communities to apply business knowledge for positive societal impact'.
Class contact per module is generally 2 hour lecture and 2 hour tutorial weekly.
Being full-time, you’ll study three modules a trimester (six modules per year) which means an average class contact time per week of 12 hours.
A variety of essays, reports, presentations, class tests, exams, and a dissertation written in your final year.
This course is taught at our Craiglockhart Campus .
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
* Options across the 4 years include:
My Development modules are also undertaken at each stage of study
Study modules mentioned above are indicative only.
Some changes may occur between now and the time that you study.
Full information is available in our disclaimer .
What are the entry requirements for Accounting?
Our entry requirements indicate both Standard and Minimum qualifications with which we normally accept students.
Competition for places varies from year to year and you aren't guaranteed a place if you meet the minimum qualifications.
Can you go straight into second year of university?
Advanced entry into Year 2 or Year 3 of this course is possible for students with suitable qualifications.
See the individual year tabs for more information.
Can I make an appointment with an advisor to discuss further about the admission process?
If you want to get more information on the admission process, please get in touch with the undergraduate admissions team by submitting an enquiry form above.
SQA Higher
You may be given an adjusted offer of entry if you meet our specified minimum entry requirements within our widening participation criteria, and outlined in our Contextual Admissions Policy.
Click here for further information about our entry requirements and admissions policies.
A Level
Irish Leaving Certificate
BTEC (QCF) Extended Diploma Level 3
BTEC (QCF) National Diploma Level 3
BTEC (QCF) National Diploma Level 3 plus A Level
T Level
International Baccalaureate Diploma
Scottish HNC
HNC
HND
If your first language isn't English, you'll normally need to undertake an approved English language test and our minimum English language requirements will apply.
This may not apply if you have completed all your school qualifications in English.
Check our country pages to find out if this applies to you.
If you do not currently meet our minimum English language requirements, we offer a number of pre-sessional English language courses which could help you achieve the required level.
See who can apply for more information on Graduate Apprenticeship courses.
We’re committed to admitting students who have the potential to succeed and benefit from our programmes of study.
Our admissions policies will help you understand our admissions procedures, and how we use the information you provide us in your application to inform the decisions we make.
Undergraduate admissions policies Postgraduate admissions policies
The course fees you'll pay and the funding available to you will depend on a number of factors including your nationality, location, personal circumstances and the course you are studying.
We also have a number of bursaries and scholarships available to our students.
By studying a BA in Accounting at Edinburgh Napier University, you will gain the skills needed to secure trainee accounting roles in the public and private sector leading to a professional qualification, for example, ICAS, ICAEW, CIMA, ACCA or CIPFA, as our course is accredited by major UK and international accounting institutes.
Subject to work experience, you will also be well-placed for general management opportunities and careers in wealth management, trading, financial and credit analysis, financial technology, risk modelling, investment/fund management, and financial planning amongst others.
Some accountants work for accounting firms, providing a range of services to other businesses, such as tax advice or statutory audits.
Other accountants work within finance departments of organisations, providing expertise in management or financial accounting, including tasks such as budgeting and strategic financial planning.
Daily tasks and responsibilities in typical accounting roles include:
A BA in Accounting can lead to various career paths, depending on your interests, skills, and career goals.
Additionally, obtaining professional qualifications from the bodies mentioned above, which are internationally recognised, can enhance your career prospects and open further opportunities.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-accounting-undergraduate-parttime:
Part-time (available as full-time )
variable
There is no time limit on the completion of this course as students accumulate credits as they go.
360 credits are required for an ordinary degree and 480 credits required for honours level degree.
The duration, on average, lasts between five and six years.
Being part-time, you can choose to study two to five modules per year.
The University does not sponsor students to study on part-time programmes in the UK under the Student Visa route.
International applicants must therefore have other valid immigration leave to study on this programme.
BTEC (QCF) National Diploma Level 3
BTEC (QCF) National Diploma Level 3 plus A Level
T level
Pass HND Accounting with grades BB in all SCQF Level 8 graded units.
Fees for modules are calculated according to the number of credits (multiples of 20).
The rate shown in the table is for 20 credits*.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-accounting-with-corporate-finance-undergraduate-fulltime:
The programme is run by our experienced academic staff who have strong industry connections and invite guest speakers from the public and private sectors regularly.
Should you choose to go down the entrepreneurial route instead, the Bright Red Triangle – our start-up incubator with certified business advisors and a co-working space in the heart of Edinburgh – is here to support you in achieving your dream every step of the way.
Full-time
N4N3
This joint honours degree involves the same core accounting modules as BA (Hons) Accounting but more compulsory finance modules to build up your specialism.
In addition, transferable skills of time management, project management, communication, collection and management of data and IT skills will serve you well in the future, whatever your career choice.
What are the entry requirements for Accounting with Corporate Finance?
Click here for further information about our entry requirements and admissions policies.
By studying a BA in Accounting with Corporate Finance at Edinburgh Napier University, you will gain the skills needed to secure trainee accounting roles in the public and private sector leading to a professional qualification, for example, ICAS, ICAEW, CIMA, ACCA, or CIPFA, as our course is accredited by major UK and international accounting institutes.
Subject to work experience, you will also be well-placed for general management opportunities and careers in wealth management, trading, financial and credit analysis, financial technology, risk modelling, investment/fund management, and financial planning, amongst others.
A Financial Analyst who is early in their career may assist in financial modelling, data analysis, and preparing reports for decision-making purposes.
They collect, organise, and analyse financial data from various sources, such as financial statements, market trends, economic indicators, and industry benchmarks.
They use analytical tools and techniques to interpret the data and identify patterns, trends, and outliers.
Daily tasks and responsibilities in this role may include:
A BA in Accounting with Corporate Finance can lead to various career paths, depending on your interests, skills, and career goals.
Additionally, obtaining professional qualifications from the bodies mentioned above which are internationally recognised and can enhance your career prospects and open further opportunities.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-accounting-and-finance-undergraduate-fulltime:
This course allows you to develop your knowledge and skills in the area of financial services while at the same time preparing you for employment or further professional studies in the field.
In addition, it provides a solid background in accounting and finance although it is important to note that this course is not accredited by the professional accountancy bodies.
If you wish to complete an accredited course, our BA Accounting or BA Accounting with Corporate Finance would be more suitable for you.
This course is advanced entry only from Year 4, depending on your previous experience and qualifications.
NN43
Designed for students who wish to build on their previous learning and work experience, the course allows you to enter directly into either Year 3 or 4, depending on your prior qualifications.
You may transfer in from another degree course, even if it's from another university, or you may have successfully completed an HND in a related area.
Holders of other appropriate qualifications with an underpinning in financial services, accounting or finance will also be considered for entry.
As well as equipping you for employment as an accountant in practice or industry, this course gives you the opportunity to customise your studies to reflect your particular interests and future career aspirations - giving you a leading edge to succeed in an intensely competitive environment.
On completion of this course you'll have developed the ability to:
We offer tuition that is supported by experienced teaching staff and strong industry connections.
Guest speakers from the corporate, government and financial world add value to the course.
This is a full-time course studied over two years.
You’ll learn by a variety of teaching methods including lectures, tutorials and independent study.
Option modules include:
What are the entry requirements for Accounting and Finance?
Our entry requirements indicate the minimum qualifications with which we normally accept students.
Alternative Entry Requirements
By studying a BA in Accounting and Finance (advanced entry) at Edinburgh Napier University, you will gain the skills to secure trainee accounting roles in financial services that prepare you for employment or furthering your professional studies with accreditations or higher education.
Subject to work experience, you will also be well-placed for general management opportunities and careers in wealth management, trading, financial and credit analysis, financial technology, risk modelling, investment/fund management, and financial planning, amongst others.
A BA in Accounting & Finance can lead to various career paths, depending on your interests, skills, and career goals.
You could choose to work in the financial services sector, including insurance, banking, or other industries.
In these sectors, you might take on roles such as a financial analyst.
An early-career financial analyst may assist in financial modelling, data analysis, and preparing reports for decision-making purposes.
By using analytical tools and techniques, they interpret the data to identify patterns, trends, and outliers.
Pursuing a professional qualification in accounting will set you on the path to becoming a qualified accountant.
Accountants manage financial records for companies across various sectors, providing the opportunity to work in an industry you are passionate about.
As an accountant, your responsibilities can include preparing financial statements, auditing accounts, and filing tax returns.
Additionally, you may monitor the profitability and financial stability of an organisation, ensuring its financial health and growth.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-business-management-with-finance-online-undergraduate-online-learning:
Our BA Business Management with Finance top-up course provides you with a broad foundation in business and helps you develop skills across a number of business disciplines to complement your previous studies and prepare for a career in business.
This top-up course is delivered fully online (part-time) meaning you can study at a pace and place that suits you.
It is particularly aimed at those who already have a broad business-related HND, associate degree or equivalent.
You can pay for this course flexibly on a module-by-module basis.
This means that you don't have to pay the full course cost upfront.
On completion of the course you'll be well placed to seek employment with a range of private, public and third sector employers.
Edinburgh Napier is #1 Modern University in Scotland (Times' World University Rankings 2024).
Online learning
12-24 months
Jan Sep Jun
This Business Management with Finance course is offered as a BA top-up and is designed to equip you for a career in business and management.
A BA top-up is the equivalent of the final year of a full-time Bachelors degree, delivered by us straight to your screen via our online learning environment.
Building on your previous experience and skills, you'll develop your understanding of the theories and concepts of business and management and the ability to apply these in practical business situations.
You'll also gain an understanding of analysing financial information for decision-making, planning and control and performance evaluation, including managing effectively a variety of risks.
The course develops critical, analytical, creative and reflective approaches to business and its environment, further enhancing your employability and leadership skills.
The international perspective developed through the materials will provide you with the background to better understand and succeed in the increasingly global environment faced by all organisations.
This top-up course is delivered fully online.
You can choose from three start dates (September, January, May) and typically takes between 12-24 months to complete, subject to your pace of study and module availability.
You'll study six modules in total, with a maximum of two modules each trimester where available.
Engaging in the online learning materials and participating in the online discussions will enable you to exchange knowledge with fellow participants.
While you'll manage your own learning, you'll be provided with guidance on how best to work with the online materials and the importance of reflection in order to meet the course objectives.
In addition to the module materials, you'll receive full support from module leaders, the programme leader, full access to our online library support, as well as being able to contact our dedicated administration team, should you have any queries.
For the award of BA Business Management with Finance you must successfully pass all six modules, giving a total of 120 credits.
All modules are 20 credits.
Within each trimester, whilst there is flexibility to work through the material at your own pace you need to be aware of the assessment dates as there is no flexibility in these.
If there is any question regarding the authorship of any submitted assessments, we reserve the right to require students to undertake an online viva.
Trimester 1 (September - December)
Trimester 2 (January - May)
Trimester 3 (May - August)
What are the entry requirements for Business Management with Finance?
If you want to get more information on the admission process, please get in touch with the global online admissions team by submitting an enquiry form above.
A HND in Business with grade C at SCQF Level 8 Applicants who do not meet the standard entry requirements may be considered if they have a minimum of 5+ year's relevant business management work experience.
To succeed on our Global Online degrees you must have access via computer or laptop to view and download written and video content.
You will also need basic IT skills that enable you to write and edit document, send and receive email, find your way around our online learning environment and search for and access online learning resources, download files and use online forums.
The test will normally need to be within 2 years of starting your course with us (unless you are studying online with us).
Please check our country pages to find out if this applies to you.
We have trusted representatives in key locations who offer guidance and advice about our Global Online programmes.
On successful completion of the course you’ll be well placed to enter employment in management related positions and management trainee posts in both public and private sectors.
Graduates have secured employment in local authorities, retail management, financial services, media service providers and a wide range of other sectors.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-financial-services-undergraduate-fulltime:
The programme is designed to supply you with the knowledge and skillset relevant to the operation of modern financial services organisations.
We developed this programme to meet the financial sector’s increasing demand for skilled graduates.
The course provides students with up-to-date and relevant learning experiences, whilst equally developing the skills necessary to excel in the modern workforce.
There is flexibility within the programme structure, allowing students to follow individual specialisms.
In addition, 6-month paid work experience opportunities within the financial services sector are available to students in the second trimester of Year 3.
Students from the course typically begin their career within the financial services sector shortly after graduating or use their qualification to progress into postgraduate studies.
Some of our graduates choose the entrepreneurial route, and for them, the Bright Red Triangle – the university’s start-up incubator with certified business advisors and a co-working space in heart of Edinburgh – is available to take advantage of.
N340
Yes
ENU is an excellent place to study.
The lecturers are not only renowned researchers but also exceptional teachers.
They are eager to discuss questions, keeping the courses fascinating for students.
Aron Radvanyi
BA (Hons) Financial Services Student
You will study a range of Modules which are designed to:
You will be given the opportunity to acquire and develop many valuable practical skills such as the ability to collect, analyse, interpret and understand data and information.
On completing this programme you will have been given opportunities to gain an appreciation of the value of education to society and to you as an individual.
This is mostly formal lectures to cover the underlying issues and theory.
The tutorials involve a more detailed examination of these issues and tend to be linked to how they are applied in practice in real world situations.
Most modules will involve one written piece of coursework and a formal examination at the end of the trimester.
In addition many modules will include an oral or visual presentation as part of an assessment.
There are some exceptions to this where modules are assessed solely by two (or more) written pieces of work without any formal examination.
This reflects the more practical focus in certain modules that are best assessed with an applied assessment rather than a summative assessment.
Certain assessments will be on an individual basis while others may involve an element of group work.
Placement and Study Abroad opportunities are subject to UK and Scottish Government health and travel advice.
What are the entry requirements for Financial Services?
BTEC (QCF) National Diploma Level 3 plus A level
By studying Financial Services at Edinburgh Napier University, you will gain the knowledge and skillset to be able to work within Finance across the private, public and third sector, as well as developing the skills to go into entrepreneurship.
You will become a strong communicator and an expert in collecting, analysing and tracking financial data.
If you are a keen problem solver with an interest in tracking data and trends, then this might be the right course for you.
On completion of your degree, you may go onto a career such as general management in banks, building societies and insurance companies, or into investment management roles, stock broking, financial advising or investment administration.
As a financial adviser, you will provide guidance and advice on finances to individuals or businesses in order for them to make informed decisions about their finances, set-up financial goals and plan for the future.
In this role you will have strong communication and analytical skills.
Daily tasks and responsibilities within this role may include:

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-accounting-postgraduate-fulltime:
This MSc programme is equally suitable for students with or without an undergraduate degree in accounting, and we have students from a variety of backgrounds on the programme.
We have a 100% overall student satisfaction score for our MSc in Accounting (PTES, 2023).
This degree will provide a strong foundation for your accounting career.
It covers the core accounting topics of financial reporting, performance management, and financial management, as well as topics such as the accounting profession, accounting in the public sector, and corporate governance.
It will be attractive to individuals with good financial knowledge, analytical skills, attention to detail, business understanding, and problem-solving.
Graduates will be in a strong position to continue their careers in professional practice, private firms, or in the public sector.
The programme also provides a foundation for students wishing to pursue further academic study in accounting.
Although this programme is not designed to maximise exemptions from professional exams, students who successfully complete the programme can apply for exemptions from four ACCA papers (Business & Technology, Management Accounting, Financial Accounting, and Corporate and Business Law), and/or gain direct entry to the Management Case Study level of CIMA’s professional qualification.
Entry points to this course are in January and September.
Please enquire for more information.
Unfortunately, we are no longer accepting applications from international applicants for this programme for September 2025.
1 years
Jan Sep
Being taught by qualified professionals is a privilege.
We studied accounting from the fundamentals to the sophisticated in a way that would help comprehend it with little to no experience.
Olabisi Adeyekun
MSc Accounting Student
This course will equip you with theoretical and practical knowledge of accounting in a variety of contexts.
In the financial reporting and analysis module, you will examine the conceptual framework for financial reporting as well as the regulatory environment for reporting, and some practical problems in implementing accounting standards, as well as the analysis of financial reports.
The financial management module introduces you to the sources of finance, financial decision making, and a variety of techniques including project appraisals and the management of risk.
Our module on strategic performance management introduces you to the concepts of cost accounting and the application of the balanced scorecard approach in business.
Our module on Accounting as a Profession will provide guidance on the practical role of the accountant and on accounting ethics.
You will also study public sector accounting and learn the key differences in applying accounting practice to this important sector of the economy.
Our module on Corporate Governance will further develop your communication skills in writing, and discussion in a simulated boardroom setting.
You will also complete a research methods module, followed by a dissertation, which will enable you further to develop your skills in analysing qualitative and quantitative information, as well as in the development of research questions and the presentation of the results of academic research.
Modules that you will study* as part of this course
Overview of Assessment Type History of Accounting (traditional, alternative histories, issues in the development of the profession – gender etc.) Roles of accounting in society (FA/MA/Audit/Contemporary issues and settings – environment, sport, singularities etc.) Application of accounting and relation to management Professional ethics (for individuals and why individuals might act as they do) The professional bodies The professionalisation project (establishment, maintenance, legal aspects etc.) The future of accounting (societies, evaluation, author, figures vs numbers)
Further information
Theories of corporate governance Legislation, regulation and corporate governance codes Development of UK corporate governance practices Models of corporate governance Corporate scandals and corporate culture Functions of the corporate board Board effectiveness and diversity Board sub-committees Accountability, audit and risk Corporate governance reporting and disclosure Contemporary issues of governance The role of stakeholders and corporate social responsibility International and transnational approaches to corporate governance
In this module you will work with your assigned supervisor to complete your MSc dissertation.
The focus of this module is to develop critical thinking and problem solving skills to prepare you for your professional career.The module will utilise the research methods content from the previous Research Methods module.
The topic chosen for the dissertation should align with your degree pathway but the focus is decided by you.
The research can be qualitative, quantitative or mixed.
There are no lectures within the MSc Dissertation module format, instead there will be meetings and guidance from your supervisor.
This module provides a comprehensive understanding of the financial environment and the various debt and equity instruments available in capital markets.
It explores the measurement of the cost of capital, including the Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC), and examines different capital structure theories and their practical applications.
Students will develop skills in investment appraisal techniques such as Net Present Value (NPV) and Internal Rate of Return (IRR), as well as in assessing investments under risk and uncertainty, including mergers and acquisitions (M&A).
The module also covers essential aspects of working capital management, short-term financing decisions, and risk management strategies for both operating and financial risks.
In this module you will learn about the financial reporting environment and the regulatory and conceptual frameworks for the preparation and presentation of financial statements, including consideration of international practices.
You will study the practical problems associated with the application of accounting standards, including accounting for groups of companies.
You will also learn how to interpret and analyse the financial performance, cash flows and financial position of organisations from their published accounts.Module Content:Overview of the international financial reporting environmentRegulatory and conceptual frameworksAccounting for groups of companiesAccounting standards and accounting policiesAnalysis, interpretation and limitations of published financial statements and annual reports
The public sector makes up around 40% of most developed economies.
Yet accounting and auditing rules and techniques are almost entirely focussed on the private sector.
In many important respects, the public sector deviates from these, but this does not form part of traditional accounting programmes.
The working context of the public sector is also different from the private sector – greater levels of accountability (and therefore reporting), the political context of budget setting (especially around tax), and difficulties around what actions to take (policy development) and how to measure success.
This module therefore offers you an insight into the workings and processes of the public sector, with particular attention focussing on the annual cycle of budgeting, performance monitoring, and outcomes reporting.
This module will contextualise public sector accounting within the theoretical frameworks – value for money, new public management, and public value – that have dominated contemporary academic and practitioner debate.
The module will provide you with a conceptual understanding of the sector, as well as knowledge of the specific accounting issues that it faces.
It will also provide you with the skills and knowledge to work effectively within a public sector organisation, or to begin further research and study in this area.
The focus of this module is for you to develop an understanding of research method approaches.
The emphasis is on developing research skills that will equip you with the expertise to undertake relevant and topical research required for your future dissertation.
The module will work logically through the techniques for writing a critical literature review Then offer sound insights into methodological considerations, along with the importance of the research design elements and ethics.
The data gathering for both qualitative and quantitative will be explored, along with appropriate analysis techniques.
Lastly, there will be a focus on how to evaluate and communicate your research.
This proposal is for the development of a new Research Methods/Skills module that will provide you with an alternative 20 credit module to the existing SOE11131: Research Methods.
This would be taught during a your second trimester and will develop skills and knowledge in: literature reviewing, secondary data gathering and analysis, approaches to personal reflection, business/research ethics, use of artificial intelligence, sustainability, equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI), etc.
Module is designed to ensure you are equipped with a longitudinal induction which ensures ‘How to be here’ foundation moves through Professionalism in classroom and beyond to Careers awareness and guidance as part of pass/fail attended module.
This ‘levelling-up’ will provide an you with an enhanced experience if you have an identified skills gaps, and provide more skills balances for you within individual cohorts.
Strategic Performance Management will develop your understanding of how management accounting contributes towards the success of business.
The module covers techniques in key organizational decision-making such as costing, risk and performance measurement and management.
Additionally, we explore the connection that these management accounting techniques have to the process of strategizing, as well as the focusing on the practicalities of implementing and using them within an operational environment.
Finally, the module will allow you to practice and develop your employability skills (particularly communication and reflection) through the assessment.
* These are indicative only and reflect the course structure in the current academic year.
The entry requirement for this course is a Bachelor (Honours) Degree at 2:2 or above.
We look for applicants to have a background in any discipline in order to be eligible for the programme.
We may also consider lesser qualifications if you have sufficient professional work experience within the industry.
Can I get admission into Accounting based on my working experience in this sector?
This course has academic entry requirements which are assessed alongside relevant work experience.
Full details of any relevant work experience, including references should be submitted with your application and may be considered for entry where the minimum academic entry requirements are below those required.
Usually, unrelated work experience is not considered sufficient for entry without meeting the minimum academic entry requirements.
Please contact us with your specific circumstances by submitting an enquiry form above and we will be happy to discuss your options.
If you want to get more information on the admission process, please get in touch with the postgraduate admissions team by submitting an enquiry form above.
This may not apply if you have completed all your school qualifications in English, or your undergraduate degree was taught and examined in English (within two years of starting your postgraduate course).
Please note:
The discount for Edinburgh Napier alumni can only be applied to year one of a full-time Postgraduate degree, any additional years are exempt from the discount.
For part time Postgraduate degrees the discount will apply to years one, two and three only and any additional years will be exempt from the discount.
Please read our full T&C here
By studying accounting at Edinburgh Napier University, you will have the knowledge, understanding, and skills to further develop your career.
This could be through employment with a professional accounting firm, other commercial organisation, or the public sector.
You will also be able to complete your professional accountancy training and become a fully qualified accountant.
Alternatively, you will be eligible to apply for progression to doctoral-level study in accounting, corporate governance, or financial management at the University or to seek entry to doctoral-level study at another higher education institution.
Professional accountants often work for accounting firms, providing a range of accountancy services to other businesses, such as tax advice or statutory audits.
Accountants also work within finance departments of other commercial organisations, providing expertise in management or financial accounting, including tasks such as budgeting and strategic financial planning.
An MSc in Accounting equips you with strong analytical, quantitative, and problem-solving skills, making you versatile and adaptable in various financial roles.
Experienced and highly qualified accountants can also be found in a variety of business leadership positions.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-business-management-finance-postgraduate-online-learning:
Our online (part-time) MSc Business Management (Finance) will equip you with the practical skills and expertise to help further your career in the finance sector.
Sharing much of its content with the online MSc Business Management, this course offers you the opportunity to specialise in banking, opening doors to increased employment opportunities in the sector.
This course is designed to deliver accessible, creative and flexible postgraduate business education and offer a choice in how, when and where you study.
21-33 months
Jan Jun Sep
Despite the online environment I have felt part of Napier University and this is in no doubt as a result of the way the course is designed, delivered and the efforts of the module leaders.
Nicola McMillan
Portfolio Manager at Scottish Enterprise
Karalisa explains how this course challenged her and encouraged her to think more critically.
She also discusses the positive impact it has had on future employment opportunities.
Our online (part-time) Business Management (Finance) course will help you develop an analytical approach, widening the application of your business management skills to include a range of career routes in the finance sector.
You’ll develop competencies in numerical confidence and creative problem solving, critical thinking and strategic reasoning.
We will help you to apply these to real life business issues, to help you further understand the issues and possible solutions facing businesses in the finance sector.
This course is ideally suited to individuals who intend to balance their personal commitments with their studies.
It will build on your existing experience and knowledge and enhance it with contemporary business theory, giving you the expertise you need to take on senior roles.
For the award of MSc Business Management (Finance) you must successfully pass all eight modules, giving a total of 180 credits.
All modules are 20 credits, except where indicated.
Further information can be found in the indicative delivery schedule.
This course is delivered fully online.
You can choose from three start dates (September, January, May) and typically takes between 21-33 months to complete, subject to your pace of study and module availability.
You'll study eight modules in total, with a maximum of two modules each trimester where available.
Our online learning environment uses materials created especially for the course by our module leaders.
Your learning experience will be enriched through online discussions that supplement the written materials, as well as case study analyses from diverse sectors and articles from leading academics and practising professionals.
You’re not alone while studying online.
Our support team are available by email and phone to answer your administrative queries, our academics host weekly academic support sessions and are available on email, and you can access our virtual database of frequently asked questions 24 hours a day.
You’ll also have access to our online library resources and IT support.
All assessments are undertaken and submitted online.
These vary for each module and may include:
What are the entry requirements for Business Management (Finance)?
Can I get admission into Business Management (Finance) based on my working experience in this sector?
If you want to get more information on the admission process, please get in touch with the Global Online admissions team by submitting an enquiry form above.
This may not apply if you have completed all your school qualifications in English, or your undergraduate degree was taught and examined in English.
Check our country pages to find out if this applies
to you.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-international-finance-postgraduate-fulltime:
Designed for students from a wide variety of non-financial disciplines and employment backgrounds, this course combines mathematical and communication skills to offer you a rounded approach to the world of international finance.
MSc International Finance will enhance your employability and open the doors to a global career.
You'll be eligible for graduate level positions in areas such as banking, insurance and finance.
Typical entry points to this course are in January and September.
Sep Jan
ENU provided each student with scientific teaching, excellent IT support and careful future career planning.
Staff are very enthusiastic and friendly.
I think it's a great decision to study here.
Yaozhang Chen
MSc International Finance Student
Whether you are looking for a role in the provision and management of financial services or planning to undertake research in the area, this course will equip you with the appropriate theoretical and practical learning.
As well as communication and presentation skills, vital in this complex industry, you’ll gain knowledge of accounting practices, statistics, financial management, banking and insurance, plus a thorough overview of the international financial environment.
You’ll graduate with the technical and informational analysis skills you need to create a rewarding career in the industry and the means to apply your knowledge of research methods.
This module is a combination of material from the field of psychology and the application to financial markets.
The aim is to be aware of these unconscious biases to debias.
We cover the prospect theory according to which we disproportionately hate losing more than winning.
Framing is another example according to which the framing of a question influences our decisions.
Based on psychology, the module explains several patterns in financial markets such as the home bias, disposition effect, momentum effect, equity premium puzzle, and financial bubbles.
This module explores to the extent of which financial managers take advantage of investor irrationality and whether sentiment and overconfidence influence investor and managerial decisions.
The module will examine the changes in the financial technology ecosystem.
In particular, discussions will be centred on:Principles of Financial IntermediationRole of Central Banks (Payments and payments regulation, Prudential Regulation and Implications of capital requirements)Building blocks of Fintech (Blockchain, Big data, Asset Aggregation)Banking (Generally, Open Banking)Capital & Money Markets (Market Making & Information Clearing, Instruments)Insurance MarketsRisk Management, Legal & Regulatory issuesPayments System (Existing infrastructure, Developments, National FX, SEPA, International Trade finance, Cryptocurrencies)New Ecosystems (Disintermediation, Death of the Branch?, Tencent, Alipay & implications)Future prospects of FinTech
This module provides a comprehensive foundation in environmental, social, and governance (ESG) factors, delving into their increasing importance in business, finance, and investment decision-making.
The course begins with an introduction to ESG principles and their broader implications for firms, stakeholders, and society, laying the groundwork for understanding these factors' critical role in modern business practices.
You will explore environmental factors, such as climate change, resource management, and carbon emissions, assessing how these issues shape corporate strategies and affect stakeholder relationships.
The module covers social factors, including labour rights, diversity, and community engagement, and examines their potential impacts on firms and society.
Additionally, governance factors, particularly corporate ethics, board structure, and transparency, will be analysed, with a focus on their influence on business operations and stakeholder trust.A key component of the course is a review of corporate social responsibility (CSR) theories, offering a deeper understanding of how businesses can address societal and environmental challenges.
The module also introduces Environmental Social and  Governance (ESG) scoring systems, exploring the methodologies employed to evaluate corporate sustainability and performance.
You will examine the role of sustainable finance in tackling environmental and social issues, with special attention given to financial instruments like green bonds, impact investing, and sustainability-linked loans.
The course equips you with the tools to analyse and integrate ESG factors into investment decision-making, ensuring you can apply these concepts in practical financial contexts.
Furthermore, you will gain insight into sustainable finance markets and instruments, learning how these mechanisms help drive the shift toward more responsible investment strategies.
The module also covers the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), highlighting their relevance in integrating ESG considerations into corporate and investment practices.In addition, you will be introduced to the econometric analysis of climate change, with a focus on understanding its economic implications through data and statistical methods.
You will also explore the econometric analysis of climate change's impact on asset pricing, examining how environmental factors can influence financial markets and asset values.By the end of this module, you will have developed the knowledge and skills necessary to analyse sustainable finance markets critically, incorporate Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) considerations into investment decisions, and understand the broader implications of these factors for business and society.
The module will examine the structure and functions of the international monetary and financial system.
It will analyse the development and the implications of the global financial marketplace.
It will examine the functions, products, participants, operational arrangements of, and the linkages between, the money markets – short-term interest rate products, the foreign exchange market, the government and corporate bond markets, the equity capital markets and the international derivatives markets.
Review of risk and return fundamentals and portfolio theoryValuation models equity and bondsComputation of efficient portfolios and the efficient frontierEvaluating investments, investment strategies and modelsEarnings quality issues and financial ratio analysis, Common stock financing, Debt FinancingAlternative investmentsMeasures of investor risk aversion, and the concept of utilityPortfolio management strategiesInternationally diversified portfoliosDerivativesBehavioural finance issues - aspects of investor psychology and behaviour
This module critically reviews the extensive field of mergers and acquisitions.
An interesting empirical finding is that mergers damage on average the wealth of the bidding firms shareholders.
In this module, we explore potential reasoning behind this result and further our understanding of determinants of merger success.
This module includes topics such as empirical methodologies used in the merger literature, valuation of target firms, method of payment, bid strategies and tactics, available defences for target firms, and organisation of the post-merger firm.
Nature of economic and financial dataGraphical and numerical summaries of dataDiscrete probability distributionsContinuous probability distributions with applications to stock prices and returnsBayesian probability and behavioural financeSampling distributions and statistical inferenceRegression analysis using various models with applications to CAPMForecasting with time seriesUse of software packages for statistical analysisReport writing
What are the entry requirements for International Finance?
The entry requirement for this course is a Bachelor (Honours) Degree at a 2:2 or above.
Please note this is a conversion programme.
Can I get admission into International Finance based on my working experience in this sector?
By studying International Finance at Edinburgh Napier University, you will be equipped with specialised skills tailored for roles in global finance, offering opportunities across various sectors and positions.
This degree will give you skills in financial analysis, risk management, international economics, and cross-cultural communication, which are valuable in various sectors where global financial expertise are required.
We have a dedicated careers support team who provide 1-2-1 support and advice, group workshops, employer events on campus and networking opportunities throughout the year to help you with your career prospects.
Alternatively, you will be eligible to apply for progression to doctoral-level study in Accounting, Corporate Governance, Financial Management or enter professional accountancy training.
This degree will provide a strong foundation for your career and attract individuals with high financial acumen, analytical skills, attention to detail, business understanding, and problem-solving.
Many MSc Internal Finance graduates work in a variety of financial firms such as banks, insurance companies and financial service companies.
Remember, an MSc in International Finance equips you with strong analytical, quantitative, and problem-solving skills, making you versatile and adaptable in various financial roles.
Career growth often depends on professional certifications, experience, and continuous learning within the field.
This degree will enhance your employability and open the doors to a global career.
You’ll be eligible for graduate level positions in areas such as:
These positions require a blend of financial acumen, analytical skills, an understanding of global markets, and sometimes proficiency in multiple languages.
Networking, obtaining relevant certifications (such as CFA), gaining practical experience through internships, and staying updated with global financial trends are crucial for success in these careers.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/mba--banking-postgraduate-online-learning:
This globally-recognised qualification will develop your business skills and give you the expertise you need to take on senior roles in any organisation.
It's a flexible course delivered online (part-time) that will build on your work experience and allow you to combine your MBA with a specialism in banking to reflect your area of interest.
It's ideally suited to individuals who want to balance their personal and professional commitments whilst studying.
Our online (part-time) MBA (Banking) is ideally suited to you if you are looking for an MBA course to run alongside your work commitments.
We have spent time developing the course to deliver accessible, creative and flexible postgraduate business and management education and offers choice in how, when and where you study, as well as giving you the option to pursue a specialism in banking.
The content of this programme is tailored for the dynamic contemporary global business environment, focusing on developing skills in leadership, and the application of conceptual management theories to current practice.
You’ll acquire competencies in innovative and creative problem solving, critical thinking and strategic reasoning.
Your course structure is based on the online MBA and includes modules from the specialist area of your choice.
For the award of MBA (Banking) you must successfully pass all eight modules, giving a total of 180 credits.
You can choose from three start dates (September, January, May) and typically takes between 21-33 months to complete, subject to your pace of study and module availability.
The entry requirements for this course is a Bachelor (Honours) Degree at 2:2 or above plus 2 years work experience in order to be eligible for this programme.
You will also need basic IT skills that enable you to write and edit document, send and receive email, find your way around our online learning environment and search for and access online learning resources, download files and use online forums.
Can I get admission into MBA (Banking) based on my working experience in this sector?
The Online MBA (Banking) will provide you with the opportunity to realise your full career potential.
In recent years, students have come to our MBA with first degrees from many different disciplines, and have gone on to build careers in a range of industries in the public, private and voluntary/ not-for-profit sectors.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/mba-finance-postgraduate-online-learning:
It's a flexible course delivered online (part-time) that will build on your work experience and allow you to combine your MBA with a specialism in finance to reflect your area of interest.
Our online (part-time) MBA with a specialism in finance is designed to deliver accessible, creative and flexible postgraduate business and management education and offers choice in how, when and where you study.
We have tailored this course for the dynamic contemporary global business environment, focusing on developing skills in leadership, and the application of conceptual management theories to current practice.
You’ll graduate with business competence and effective management skills, ready to make your mark at the highest level.
For the award of MBA (Finance) you must successfully pass all eight modules, giving a total of 180 credits.
Can I get admission into MBA (Finance) based on my working experience in this sector?
The Online MBA (Finance) will provide you with the opportunity to realise your full career potential.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/study-with-us/international-students/your-country/south-asia/india/student-experience/nidhi-mehta-testimonial:
Nidhi from India talks about her life at Edinburgh Napier University.
The most amazing thing about Edinburgh Napier University are the campuses.
They are all a marvel but I think I love Craiglockhart the most.
It has a lounge and a cafeteria – they are the perfect hangout spots after class.
The Students’ Association offers many activities so if you are a sports enthusiast, a writer or a designer, check them out.
They have something for everyone!
I'm a part of the My Future Group, and since I'm in the business school, the Bright Red Triangle too.
Being an international student, it is always important to keep in mind that the first few days you can a have culture shock.
I told myself keep it going slow and steady and then I realised it isn’t really that bad.
Here you get to have one-on-one sessions with lecturers and you are not judged on your age, only your potential.
Scotland was always an unexplored place that captivated me.
It has a history and an identity of its own.
For an ardent reader and an amateur writer like me, it was a dream come true to come here because inspiration is everywhere and though the weather isn't warm, the people and atmosphere are.
Edinburgh Napier has a variety of courses in Accounting and with streamlined modules, I get a chance to do what I want.
Accounting with Corporate Finance offers international accounting expertise with the right amount of financial theory to understand how accounting works on the global level.
The tutorials and coursework are a lot sometimes but it can be really fun.
The lecturers are very supportive, especially when a direct entrant (2nd Year) like me needs to know how things work!
My favourite module is Corporate Accounting, it's quite interesting and guess what – it keeps me busy.
The support staff at the University is very keen to help out students.
They conduct a number of workshops and it is good to attend the ones on referencing or careers.
They make you better prepared for your course.
2.05
My first day was sunny and bright which got my hopes high but it does get colder.
The cold isn’t too bad, it’s just a little new to me.
The city has a charm of its own, it has something for everyone - an adventurer, a philosopher or an artist.
The most beautiful part of the city is Calton Hill.
The night views of the city from the top are mesmerising.
When I saw them for the first time, I stopped breathing for a little bit.
Exploring the city street by street at your own pace is just the perfect way to see Edinburgh because there is so much to do.
Edinburgh as a city can be confusing at first but gradually you start developing an understanding of the city and then everything is amazing.
Being fond of commerce and accounts since a young age, I always wanted to do something different in this field.
It is rare to find someone who works at organisations like IMF or the World Bank and that sounds like a great place to work.
To be able to accomplish my dream, I wanted to study modules that would deal in international accounting and finance.
For this, the course offered at Edinburgh Napier was the best one!
I’m looking forward to the modules in 3rd and 4th year.
If you're thinking about joining Edinburgh Napier University, read advice from our international student ambassadors.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/business-and-innovation-hub/entrepreneurial-community:
We support our community of Edinburgh Napier students, alumni, and staff to develop the enterprise skills required to capture opportunities, develop their ideas, and to start businesses.
Explore the ways you can connect with or invest in our spin-outs, start-ups, entrepreneurs, freelancers, and global changemakers.
In 2024, Edinburgh Napier University’s enterprise hub, Bright Red Triangle (BRT) , has formed an innovative new partnership with Queen Margaret University (QMU) and Edinburgh College (EC) to extend its entrepreneurial support services to an even broader community.
Through this collaboration, students, graduates, and staff across these institutions will gain access to guidance, training, and resources aimed at building strong enterprise skills for professional growth, while also supporting them in bringing entrepreneurial ideas to life as business ventures.
This pioneering initiative aligns closely with both the Scottish Government’s National Innovation Strategy 2023-2033 and the Entrepreneurial Campus blueprint , which aim to position Scotland as a hub of innovation and entrepreneurship.
This partnership strives to create a dynamic, interdisciplinary network fostering entrepreneurship across a broad spectrum of sectors—health, food and drink, creative industries, tourism, design, engineering, construction, computing, and artificial intelligence.
Through these efforts, BRT, QMU, and EC aim to support the Scottish Government’s goals for fostering entrepreneurial talent and enhancing graduate employability, while also addressing gender and diversity gaps in entrepreneurship.
This collaboration aligns with the Scottish Government’s commitment to strengthening regional and cross-institutional partnerships, creating an inclusive environment that encourages economic development and helps retain talent across Scotland To learn more about joining the Bright Red Triangle community and to access these resources, visit www.brightredtriangle.co.uk .
We foster a supportive environment for women within our Napier community.
Our SDG5 Living Lab is a pioneering initiative born from the partnership between Edinburgh Napier University and Women's Enterprise Scotland, with a shared commitment to advancing the UN’s Sustainable Development Goal 5 - Gender Equality.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/our-location/about-edinburgh:
It's big enough to have everything you need, yet small enough to feel like home.
No matter where you're from, the Festival City is ready to welcome you.
1.30
The city is bursting with cafes, pubs and clubs.
There are museums and art galleries across the city, live music venues, hidden markets and more history than you can possibly imagine.
Volcanic foundations frame medieval architecture, while mountains, valleys, lochs and jagged coastline envelop the city.
The best part is how easy it is to get both around and out of the city into the countryside.
Half an hour on the bus will see you on the edge of the North Sea, or up a craggy hill in the Pentlands.
I'm nomadic by nature and have been travelling my whole life ...
Then I came to Edinburgh and within two days I'd rung home to New Zealand and said, 'I've found my home.'
Anna Fawcett
MSc International Marketing student
SMEs are growing like I've never seen before.
It's like a new Enlightenment for Edinburgh, especially in terms of innovations and enterprise
Professor Bill Buchanan
Director of CDCS, School of Computing

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/study-with-us/undergraduate/how-to-apply/the-application-process:
To apply for full-time undergraduate courses, you must make your application through UCAS.
Submit your application as early as possible and if you want to study a part-time course, apply directly through our online application form.
You can apply through UCAS from 1 September for entry the following September.
The normal closing date for receipt of applications for courses at Edinburgh Napier University is the last week of January for UK students.
The next deadline is 29 January 2025.
The deadline for international applications is 30 June.
Back to menu
UCAS charges an application fee of £28.50 for up to 5 choices.
Free school meals application fee waiver : For the 2025 cycle, if you have been in receipt of free school meals at some point during the last six years (during your secondary education) up until the end of your final year, you will be eligible to have your application fee waived.
Find out more
The UCAS website provides further guidance and tips on writing your personal statement.
Remember that every institution you apply to receives the same personal statement.
Applications for part-time study are made online from your chosen course information page.
You’ll need:
We also offer an Associate Student scheme with partner colleges, guaranteeing you an offer of a place at Edinburgh Napier on some courses.
To find out where your college qualification could take you at Edinburgh Napier, contact us using our enquiry form .
If want to study at university but don't have the usual entry requirements, an access course may be your answer.
Access courses help prepare you for studying at University and are run by local colleges throughout Scotland.
You can study a variety of subjects relevant to the degree course you want to join, either on a full-time or part-time basis.
Visit the Scottish Wider Access Programme website for a list of east Scotland access courses.
Applicants from overseas will need to satisfy our entry requirements along with a specified level of English-language ability.
Visit our country information pages to find requirements for your country.
If you are not a national of the EU, EEA or Switzerland, you will typically need to apply for a Tier 4 Visa to study with us.
You'll need to get a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies to apply for the Tier 4 Visa – we’ll take you through the process of obtaining this once you have an offer.
To find out more about visa requirements, visit our visa and immigration section.
For any queries about visas, entry requirements and applying contact our international support team through our enquiry form or call +44 (0)333 900 6040 .
If you've been offered a place, you can choose to delay starting your studies for one year.
Deferred entry is granted at the discretion of our admissions team and it’s advisable to talk to them before applying for deferred entry.
From 23 February, applicants can make additional university and course choices via UCAS Extra.
If you used all five options in your original application and have since been declined or rejected any offers, you can use this process to find another path.
Check your eligibility in UCAS Hub.
Clearing provides you with an opportunity to apply for courses later in the year through UCAS if you have not received any offer.
Clearing is available from 5 July onwards and enables applicants who are not holding any offers of admission to apply for places, subject to availability.
Applications for Clearing open in July and will remain open until all clearing places have been filled.
If you would like to transfer from another University in the UK, please apply through UCAS, giving full details of your current study.
If you would like to transfer credits from a University outside the UK, please contact us mentioning your educational qualifications and we will assess if your qualification meets our minimum entry requirements
Search and apply for Graduate Apprenticeships on www.apprenticeships.scot .
You'll need a CV, and we recommend checking the website regularly for new vacancies.
Get in touch with us through our enquiry form and we can arrange a chat.
You will need support from your employer, and your job role must be relevant to your chosen subject area.
UCAS will confirm it's received your application, then pass us a copy for processing.
You can track your application and decisions made on the UCAS Hub .
It's vital you monitor your application and review any offers made.
Find out more about what happens after you apply , the offers you may receive and how to respond.
Get in touch with one of our advisers if you need help with choosing a course or preparing your application.
You can phone us on 0333 900 6040 , or complete our enquiry form .

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-acting-and-english-undergraduate-fulltime:
Develop your acting skills to a professional standard, while exploring English literature, and gain a deep understanding of the relationship between text and performance.
We offer the only combined actor-training and English degree in the UK, allowing you to develop your acting skills while studying English literature, giving you a firm knowledge base from which to work in either field.
Acting is the practical realisation of text and is closely linked to the discipline of English.
This unique combination of study will open up many options for work or further academic study.
You’ll have a range of options, which will allow you to tailor the course to fit your particular interests, and have the chance to develop allied skills such as theatre directing.
Acting classes cover acting for both stage and screen, and will include substantial workshop performances as well as public productions in the final year, including the opportunity to present your own fully supported show at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe.
When you leave the course you’ll be armed with a career action plan, a show reel and significant experience in both acting and English.
We are a top 3 UK Modern university for Drama, Dance & Cinematics (3rd of 55) and a top 3 modern university in the UK for English - The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024
QW34
One of the best things about the Acting and English degree is that you are given the time and flexibility to explore different pathways within drama and find out what you’re really passionate about.
Marli Siu
Actress, Ian Charleson Award nominee, BA (Hons) Acting and English, 2015
Find out about our Acting students who went on to win prestigious BAFTA Scotland awards
Recommended for the start of the course:
Year 4, trimester 2: you will need to get a professional head shot (ranging from £50-£150 depending on the photographer)
Your learning experience will consist primarily of practical, workshop-based classes, tutorials, and seminars with visiting professionals.
The majority of your assessments will be practical and performance-based, all of which will be underpinned by research and analytical course work.
One option module from:
What are the entry requirements for Acting and English?
As part of the selection process suitably qualified applicants will normally be invited to attend an audition and interview.
This applies to all years of entry.
Audition and application
Your audition plays a big part in the selection process, but we are looking for a demonstrated interest within acting, whether it be in subjects at school or clubs, societies etc.
We're looking for passion, self-motivation, strong imagination and a willingness to be open to new ideas.
If you show potential in the audition, and can meet the academic criteria, then we will be able to offer a place on our course.
The audition will be in three parts:
For each part of the audition, we're looking for an imaginative connection to the world of the piece you've chosen.
Our advice is to come prepared: understand and learn all your material, inside and out.
Otherwise, nerves will prevent you from performing to the best of your ability.
You can find out more information about video audition requirements here .
Advanced entry into Year 2 of this course is possible for students with suitable qualifications.
SQA Advanced Higher
If your first language isn't English, you'll normally need to undertake an approved English language test.
The English Language requirements for this programme are IELTS (Academic) with 6.0 overall and no element below 5.5.
For guidance on the acceptability of other English Language tests please contact ugadmissions@napier.ac.uk .
This may not apply if you have completed all your school qualifications
in English.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-ba-hons-stage-and-screen-acting-ft-undergraduate-fulltime:
2 years
W411
In both years there will be particular focus on style and the ability to adapt performance to specific medium.
Through intensive study of the similarities and differences between the demands of stage and screen acting, you’ll gain a critical understanding of your own acting process and confidence in your ability to work in both areas.
What are the entry requirements for Stage and Screen Acting?
As part of the application process, after initial screening of your application by the Admissions Team you may be asked to send in an audition video.
You can find more information on what we would ask for as part of this process here .
This intensive course is designed for aspiring actors which will enable them to step into the spotlight and embrace the thrill of performance, making their mark on both stage and screen.
Through a dynamic blend of theory and practice, you'll develop the skills and versatility needed to captivate audiences in a variety of theatrical and cinematic contexts.
You will gain the skills necessary to work in the performing arts, as well as a wide range of transferable skills you can take into employment in other fields.
Our graduates have moved onto:
You'll delve into a wide range of acting techniques and approaches, from textual analysis and character development to screen acting and audition preparation.
Through practical rehearsals, scene studies, and on-camera workshops, you'll gain hands-on experience bringing characters to life and mastering the nuances of performance in front of both live and live and recorded audiences.
This course will help you to emerge as a confident and skilled actor, ready to pursue a career on stage, screen, or both.
Whether you aspire to perform in classical theatre productions or explore the exciting world of television and streaming media, our BA (Hons) in Stage and Screen Acting will provide you with the training and opportunities to turn your passion for acting into a successful and rewarding career.
Stepping into the spotlight as an Actor means harnessing your passion for performance and creativity to bring a wide array of characters to life on both stage and screen.
This role involves immersing yourself in the essence of each character, delivering depth, emotion, and authenticity with every portrayal.
Your work will include interpreting scripts, developing character motivations, rehearsing scenes, and collaborating closely with directors and fellow cast members.
Imagine diving into diverse roles, from historical figures to fantastical beings, and meeting the challenge of portraying their complexities with skill and nuance.
Whether performing live in theatres or acting in front of cameras, you'll captivate audiences with your ability to evoke a range of emotions.
Your versatility will shine through whether you are on stage, filming on location, or lending your voice to animated characters.
The journey of an Actor is one of continuous growth and exploration, constantly pushing the limits of your craft and embracing new roles and genres.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/mfa-directing-postgraduate-fulltime:
This course has been launched to extend a great opportunity for trainee directors.
Working in the heart of the festival city, there will be time to work with actors on all years of the BA Acting & English and the BA Acting for Stage & Screen courses.
You'll be working on contemporary and classic texts and alongside trainee playwrights to create new work.
You'll have dedicated industry-recognised mentors providing support throughout your training time and you’ll be studying in one of the most culturally-vibrant cities in the world.
The two-year duration gives you time to truly develop skills and creativity, and also allows you to network and build relationships with actors and writers who can make an impact on your career after you graduate.
Typical entry point to this course is in September.
Our MFA Directing graduate André Agius shares his experience of studying the course.
The aim of this module is to develop theoretical understanding and knowledge as well as practical experience of theatre directing through the production of extended scenes.
You will attend master classes in a variety of areas (including rehearsal techniques, staging, communicating with actors) which will provide a comprehensive overview of contemporary challenges and approaches for directors, and you will undertake to direct at least two extended scenes of increasing complexity.
The aim of this module is to develop practical applications of understanding and knowledge in live theatre production.
The module will begin with a placement or case study, which will allow you to examine the professional practice of a company or a theatre artist in depth, and will culminate with a preview performance of your own festival production.
You will have individual mentor support, which will underpin your ability to plan, negotiate and lead this project through to completion.
This module will focus on theatre design, on the elements of visual and sound design and on how directors use these elements to express conceptual ideas in the process of practical play production.
By the end of this module you will have a cohesive working knowledge of how directors present a concept to a company and to designers; how to discuss theatrical design and its impact on production and be able to communicate effectively with key stakeholders in the production process.
Beginning with an intensive week of instruction (20 hours), you will focus on developing a critical understanding of the elements of dramatic story-telling (character, dialogue, plot, visuals, theme, etc.), language and tropes and on the varieties of dramatic structure – from simple chronological narrative to more sophisticated techniques of time-manipulation and exploitation of suspense.
You will face a set of project-based challenges in order to consolidate your learning.
You will have regular tutorials throughout the trimester to monitor progress and discuss ideas, and each project will have observation/mentoring time as agreed (6 hours) through weekly tutorials and rehearsals.
Each of these project-based challenges will be set with increasing time requirements.
Examples might include: A two-minute opening ‘montage’ with minimal dialogue, adapted from a painting, sculpture or piece of music.
A three-minute scene adapted from a poem or short story.
A three to four-minute minute scene adapted from a current event news story A final project scene adaptation from any source.
Projects will be produced in collaboration with directors and playwrights, Napier graduate actors, and with students on the Acting & English and the Acting for Stage & Screen courses.
During your ‘mini-placement’ you will be expected to work with and support a full scale in house production for the Acting programmes at Edinburgh Napier as a production assistant.
You will have opportunity to observe how texts are realised by experienced directors, while learning some of the practicalities of realizing a stage production.
The module culminates in a workshop presentation, where directors and playwrights will be teamed with actors to create a piece of original drama adapted from an extant source.
You will accompany this final project with an analytical essay (1000 words).
This module focuses on launching your professional career, along with creating and potentially presenting work at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe.
Working from your reflective analysis of the preview production, you will be given the opportunity to go on to present your work publicly at the Fringe Festival, and you will be working to bridge your experience as a training director into the world of professional work.
Meeting with mentors in the early stages, you will outline a development plan and rehearsal schedule, which will include workshop/rehearsal times as well as production/tech schedules.
Also included in these early plans will be a detailed marketing/media campaign.
Mentors will work specifically with you for a set number of hours, but there will also be staff mentors assigned to the acting students, which will further ensure support and help throughout the critical rehearsal period.
In addition to the festival production, all directors will submit a 2-part thesis (approx.
7,000 words), which combines critical reflection on the Festival experience and on the artistic presentation of the play, along with a professional portfolio and career/business plan.
This module will begin with a chosen scene presentation.
The scene is expected to stretch your imagination particularly in terms of style and you will be choosing the scene with the approval of your supervisor.
Throughout the module there will be series of intensive classes which will focus on the development of new material and creative responses to extant work.
These classes will involve strategies for enhancing creativity, effective group communication, setting the stage for innovative work, sympathetic listening and responding, and enhancing group problem-solving abilities.
Along with these classes, directors will have scheduled rehearsal times with actors and will be focused on honing short sample scripts (10-15 mins each) and performance for Edinburgh Festival ‘backer’s auditions’ at the end of trimester.
You will have 5 hours of individual mentoring time.
Additionally, you will present a written paper on the proposed future of the scenes shown at the auditions.
This will take the form of directorial concepts (with design and production ideas).
You will attend a series of classes, many delivered by visiting professionals, introducing necessary business and self-management skills.
You will prepare a thoroughly researched case study of the career path of either a director, playwright or theatre company.
You will have ‘mock-interview’ sessions in which you will present work, pitch ideas, present portfolios, and business plans and get immediate feedback from industry professionals.
You will also be expected to produce a professional opportunities analysis, for which you will research and identify opportunities for your work once you have completed the course.
These may include placements, resident writer/director schemes, funding opportunities, writing competitions, etc.
Areas covered will include: -- Business planning -- Production and small company finance -- Effective marketing, including online presence, social media, etc.
-- Setting up and running a small theatre company -- Self-promotion and networking -- Mock interviews -- Establishing Professional Networks -- How to research and write a case study
Working in a small tutorial group, you will be focusing on a number of plays, ranging from Greek drama to the present day.
Along with conducting appropriate contextual research, you will be carrying out a literary analysis of form, style, structure, language and thematic ideas.
Each play will be examined in terms of the very specific challenges it poses in practical production.
There will be two projects to complete – one purely analytical in terms of the relationships between language, character and narrative; and one (theoretically) practical in which a number of challenges are identified, along with a series of proposed practical solutions in production.
Your presentation and resultant peer exchange will form a significant part of the learning and early in the term a calendar of presentation dates will be agreed.
What are the entry requirements for Directing?
The entry requirement for this course is a Bachelor (Honours) Degree at 2:2 or above, with a background in Drama or Humanities.
Can I get admission into Directing based on my working experience in this sector?
The English Language requirements for this programme are IELTS (Academic) with 7.0 with no individual component score less than 6.5.
For guidance on the acceptability of other English Language tests please contact pgadmissions@napier.ac.uk
This course aims to train such graduates, who can see unlimited potential and a variety of opportunities for themselves in the entertainment industry.
Through a comprehensive curriculum encompassing theory, practice, and collaboration, you'll develop the skills and expertise needed to lead productions with confidence and flair.
You will have the opportunity to get into various roles such as:
Throughout the course, you'll explore the art and craft of directing from script analysis and staging to casting and rehearsal techniques.
Through hands-on projects, workshops, and mentorship from industry professionals, you'll gain practical experience developing your directorial voice and realizing your artistic vision on stage.
Our graduates have gone on to do some great work.
In the seven years of the programme our graduates have worked as directors, associate and assistant directors at the National Theatre of Scotland, Royal Lyceum Theatre, Teatru Manoel (National Theatre of Malta) Strange Town and several have made their professional directing debuts at Òran Mór’s celebrated Play, Pie & Pint as well as creating their own companies and developing them.
We believe that directors trained in the core skills of good story-telling, inspiring great performance, working effectively and creatively in a collaborative environment, preparing and adhering to schedules and budgets, and understanding a variety of marketing possibilities will be able to adapt their work to a variety of platforms.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/mfa-acting-for-stage-and-screen-postgraduate-fulltime:
Our 2-year MFA is a unique vocational training that offers you a full run in the Edinburgh Fringe Festival at the end of your first year and extensive screen acting work and showreel opportunities in your second year.
You will be training within a vibrant, interdisciplinary postgraduate community of film and theatre directors as well as screenwriters and playwrights.
Classes are delivered by staff with extensive industry experience and our programme is respected within the profession.
Our graduates have been featured on Netflix, Starz, BBC, Amazon Prime, Channel 4, and ITV, as well as working at the Royal National Theatre, The Traverse, the Lyceum Theatre, Dundee Rep, Bard in the Botanics, London Regent’s Park Open Air theatre, and have been nominated for Olivier and Ian Charlson Awards.
The MFA Acting for Stage & Screen is a unique 2-year degree that will reflect the challenge for most working actors today, which is to work confidently both in stage and screen acting.
This is a practice-based course, and it aims to prepare students for an industry in which creative problem solving, advanced practical skills, business acumen, teamworking, and self-generated work are critical.
We hope to train students who will graduate with all these abilities and can thrive as freelance performing artists across a range of opportunities within the creative arts industries.
Your first year focuses on stage acting.
Alongside taught classes, you will be working with MFA Directors and Playwrights to workshop, develop and hone an original piece for production at the Edinburgh Fringe Festival.
The second year begins with both stage and screen acting, and in the final two trimesters you will be working with MA Film Directors and Screenwriters to work on short films that will be entered into festivals around the world.
You will also have the chance to work with professional film directors and to create short films of your own devising.
This module enables you to engage with a range of acting theories and approaches to performance, focusing on contemporary texts.
A variety of scenes from contemporary plays, of increasing length and complexity, will be critically analysed and performed in a workshop setting, enabling you to develop knowledge of specific genres and styles.
The texts chosen, and therefore the acting theories explored, will be dependent on the year cohort, but will allow you to explore and develop a diverse, yet specialised combination of skills and acting theoretical knowledge.
This module will provide a practical setting for the application of theory specific to the interpretation of heightened dramatic texts and complex language.
You will explore the relationship between acting and psychology, acting and emotion, acting and character, acting and cognitive processes, and the many ways in which traditional theories of acting have responded to the question of how actors interpret, prepare and perform heightened dramatic text.
Techniques for inspiring imagination and play will remain at the heart of the work, and you will be extending your ability to create acting that is engaging, believable and sustainable in a variety of challenging and historically varied texts.
The class will combine intensive work on screen acting technique with an extended exploration of stage acting.
Screen acting work will include work on a variety of increasingly demanding scenes.
Stage acting work will allow students to concentrate on an extended role from an edited canonical work.
This module will be divided between screen and stage classes each week.
This module develops the productions selected in the previous trimester by the festival panel (on the basis of quality and overall equality of student participation) to a public preview showing.
Working in small theatre companies, you will rehearse a full festival production and perform this in a public setting.
You will also work as a group to create a business and marketing plan for the production.
This module develops the productions previewed in the Festival preview modules to be given a final public performance in the Edinburgh Fringe Festival.
As well as performing, each company will research, develop and execute a marketing strategy which includes social media, live extracts from performance, PR, and face-to-face marketing throughout the run.
You will also be expected to see other performances during the Edinburgh festival fringe to enhance your own understanding and critical appraisal of the Festival fringe context.
This module commences the group projects which lead towards a final Edinburgh Festival Fringe production.
You will be cast in a group, and you will work together as a collaborative team.
You may also be working with an MFA Director if appropriate.
The module will focus on strategies for enhancing creativity, setting the stage for innovative work, effective group communication, sympathetic listening and responding, and enhancing group problem-solving abilities.
Along with classes, you will have scheduled rehearsal times with the directors (and possibly writers) and will be focused on creating and honing short sample scripts (15-20 mins each) and performances of a contemporary scene and for a Fringe Festival presentation proposal.
This is the first of two modules which will present you with opportunities to develop your screen acting skills by being involved in a variety of film-making projects.
The module covers a wide range of screen related content including preparing screen audition material, the production context of short film planning and producing, as well as learning pre- and post-production skills for short film on smart phone video  cameras.
You will also cover topics on developing independent short film proposals, story structure, story-boarding and scripting.
Short, self-generated films with a given script will be produced as preparation for the self-generated film project in the module Film production 2.
These short self-taped projects will also be used as casting for 3- and 10-minute films being produced by the MFA Film Directors.
You will develop work on these 3-minute film projects during the module.
This is the second of two screen focused modules which will present you with a variety of opportunities to be involved in a range of screen projects.
Building on Film production 1, you will develop and extend your skills in short film creation, exploring opportunities to create independent work for web presentation and developing screenplays.
Working in groups, you will create a film artefact in any genre (short dramatic film/extended scene/sketches/mini-web series).
In addition, you will be cast in two filming projects: the first will be a scene shot by professional staff and the second will be a 5 to 10-minute film, made in collaboration with MFA Film Directing students or other collaborator
This 40-credit, 2-trimester module is designed to deepen your knowledge of a variety of techniques that can help you find freedom, fluidity and ease of expression physically, vocally, and imaginatively.
The module is designed to enhance and support the practical work you will be doing elsewhere within the course, and as material increases in complexity over the year, the technical work in this module will respond to that complexity.
Your progress will be the subject of significant and continual communication with the course tutors and this module will require that you demonstrate initiative in research, presentation and leadership.
You will focus on physical and vocal expression (both sung and spoken), and will explore selected theories of voice, movement, or singing theorists/practitioners (which might include, amongst others, Linklater, Berry, Rodenburg, Alexander, Houseman, Estill, Carey).
This module will focus on deepening your knowledge of the broad entertainment industry and the live and screen acting professions in particular.
You will explore necessary skills appropriate to working as a freelance artist.
Areas covered will include: exploring allied areas in which you may find work, mock interviews, auditions and establishing professional networks.
You will be showing excerpts from your professional portfolio at set assessment points in the term and you will be expected to carry out directed and self-directed research into specific areas of the industry that represent particular target markets for you and your skills/abilities.
The module also includes significant research time, which is designed to help you further understand the cultural and commercial contexts in which the live and recorded media performance industries operate.
You will attend a series of classes, many delivered by visiting professionals, introducing necessary performance, business and self management skills.
You will prepare a thoroughly researched critical reflection essay of the career path of the performer.
You will have ‘mock-interview’ sessions in which you will be interviewed and/or present auditions and portfolios, and get immediate feedback from industry professionals.
Areas covered will include: The ‘business’ side of acting (agents, accounts, commission etc) -- Effective marketing, including online presence, social media, etc.
-- Exploring allied areas in which you may find work -- Self-promotion and networking -- Mock interviews -- Establishing Professional Networks
Working in groups within your year, you will conduct appropriate contextual research and carry out literary analysis of form, style, structure, language and thematic ideas on a number of plays.
Each play will be examined in terms of the very specific challenges it poses for actors in practical production.
Then plays chosen will vary dependent on the cohort of students.
You will work on two individual projects, the first focusing on the relationships between language, character and narrative and the second identification of challenges and character analysis.
Are you considering studying with us from the USA?
Find more information here about starting your journey.
What are the entry requirements for Acting for Stage and Screen?
The entry requirement for this course is a Bachelor (Honours) Degree at 2:2 or above in a Drama or Humanities subject.
The application process also includes an audition.
Can I get admission in Acting for Stage and Screen based on my working experience in this sector?
If you want to get more information on the admission process, please get in touch with the Postgraduate admissions team by submitting an enquiry form above.
The English Language requirements for this programme are IELTS (Academic) with 7.0 with no individual component score less than 7.0.
This course will give you the skills necessary to work in a variety of areas within the performing arts industry, as well as a wide range of transferable skills (confident communication, leadership, collaborative team working skills, and creative problem solving) that can take you into employment in many other fields.
Career opportunities include:

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/news/comic-books-choirs-and-courtrooms-edinburgh-napier-at-this-years-fringe:
Staff, students and alumni star at this year’s Edinburgh Festivals
2 August 2017
09:24
8 December 2021
The city of Edinburgh is preparing to take on a new persona this month as the Edinburgh Festivals roll into town.
Staff, students and alumni from Edinburgh Napier will again play a starring role as they join thousands of performers taking part in various shows at venues across the city throughout August.
Selecting a show can often be viewed as a daunting task given the sheer volume that is on offer.
So why not let our handy guide to the best of this year’s festivals – albeit through Edinburgh Napier-tinted glasses - help you make that all-important pick?
Festival and Event Management lecturer and researcher Dr Louise Todd will look at the relationships people have with the Fringe in her show The Fringe – my BFF.
Part of the Skeptics on the Fringe 2017 line-up, Louise’s performance will also look at what can affect these relationships.
Do you love the Fringe?
Is it a childhood friend that you don’t now see so often?
Catch it on 15 August at the Banshee Labyrinth on Niddry Street.
Fan of Making a Murderer or award-winning podcast Serial?
Join Psychology lecturer Faye Skelton as she looks at the mechanics behind being an eyewitness, why many are often wrong and the research that can help reduce the number of wrongful convictions.
Fitness to Witness is at the New Town Theatre (Venue 7) on 14 August at 8.20pm and 17 August at 1.50pm.
Part of the Cabaret of Dangerous Ideas programme.
Why are people choosing to remain unvaccinated?
Why do some continue to think that vaccines put the public in danger?
Why is society, which usually stops us from harming strangers, tolerating such antisocial behaviour?
Let Edinburgh Napier microbiologist Clare Taylor inject some sense with her show Anti-Vaxxers are Anti-Social!
Showing at the New Town Theatre (venue 7) on 12 August at 1.50pm.
Part of the Cabaret of Dangerous Ideas programme.
The Shakespeares: Scenes from a Marriage is written and directed by Edinburgh Napier’s Dr Donna Soto-Morettini and features a cast of students who have trained and graduated from the University’s Acting for Stage & Screen programme.
You’ll get passion, cross-dressing and heartbreak in this new play that takes on one of literary history’s greatest mysteries – was Shakespeare ever really in love?
Various showings at theSpace on the Mile, 6-26 August.
Returning after their sell out 2016 Fringe run, Edinburgh Napier’s Drama Society presents an all-singing, all-dancing, original parody of Frozen and the Disney universe.
Frigid: A Musical Worth Melting For runs 6-19 August at Greenside on Royal Terrace.
Starring BA (Hons) Acting for Stage and Screen graduate Alan Mackenzie , Scribble is a play about mental health and supernovas.
It is an honest, open, critical conversation about how mental health is shared and how people affect, support and challenge each other’s wellbeing.
It was awarded the 2017 ART Award by the Assembly Roxy Theatre which means it debuts at this year’s Edinburgh Fringe at the same venue.
Shows 3-27 August.
Fans of comic books will undoubtedly know the full story of 2000AD and its importance in British sci-fi comic circles.
Creative Writing lecturer David Bishop is a past editor of the iconic publication and will join previous editor Steve MacManus for a very special Q&A and look back on the magazine’s rise to the top.
Part of the festival’s Stripped 2017 series, it takes place on 15 August at the Bosco Theatre on George St at 8.15pm.
The University’s War Poets Collection , which is located within its Craiglockhart campus, will also be joining in with the Book Festival fun with a special pop-up exhibition on 16 August.
Curator Catherine Walker will be on-hand to give a short talk and guide attendees through photographs of the Collection.
This event is currently sold out.
Written by MA Creative Writing alumna Anne Hogg , Out of the Bad is a black comedy centred around a reunion for the women of the Caterpillar Occupation’s 30th anniversary.
Expect complicated lives, loves, buried secrets and a realisation that the factory closure in 1987 may not have been the disaster everyone made it out to be.
Shows at the New Town Theatre from 4-14 and 16-27 August.
Written by another MA Creative Writing graduate Jane Livingstone , Jocky Wilson Said is the story of the Scottish darts star of the same name as he sets out to hitchhike across the Nevada desert to attend an exhibition match.
A funny, moving and critically acclaimed tribute to a Scottish sporting hero, it shows 2-24 August at the Gilded Balloon.
Edinburgh Napier’s own health and safety advisor Sean Hughes will be behind the drum kit as part of the Inverkeithing Community Big Band’s performance at the St Andrews and St George’s Church on George St on 27 August.
Lucy Pratt and Stephanie Miller will be part of Pitchcraft – a choir with a difference – when it performs two nights at St Andrew’s and St George’s Church from 18-19 August.
The show will cover unique takes on popular contemporary classical songs – with a sprinkling of humour, passion and surprise added in for good measure.
Susanne Goetzold , lecturer in Child and Public Protection, will be performing with Cadenza at Greyfriars Kirk on 26 August.
The programme includes Brahms – Ein Deutsches Requiem and Rheinberger – Mass in E flat “Cantus Missae”, among others.
Edinburgh-based musician and composer and Edinburgh Napier alumni John A Sampson will be performing with Carol Ann Duffy at The Stand Comedy Club 6 from 4-13 August.
Expect a thought-provoking and entertaining afternoon.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/news/edinburgh-napier-at-the-2024-festivals:
16 July 2024
11:25
It’s almost time for the Edinburgh Festivals to once again burst into life across the city.
New Celts Productions is a collective of new Scottish talent who have trained on Edinburgh Napier University’s BA (Hons) Acting & English and BA (Hons) Stage & Screen Acting programmes and Edinburgh Napier’s MFA in Directing.
This production represents the culmination of that training and will showcase the talent of emerging young professional actors, directors, producers and writers.
Timeless Tales of Gods and Heroes
Six friends plan a night of folklore and song.
With ancient tales of myth and magic brought to life with song and powerful storytelling, they hope to launch a business reflecting their love of Celtic and Gaelic mythologies.
It’s the perfect plan.
Perfect, that is, until some evangelical Christians get wind of their ideas… as the performance draws near, the protest crowd gathers.
Can the company hold their nerve?
Will our heroes win the day?
Timeless Tales of Gods and Heroes examines the desire to hold on to ancient stories in a modern world.
3-23 August (odd dates).
Take Me To Your Leader
Deep in the Scottish Highlands lies Nebula Inc, a private space research facility fronted by egomaniacal billionaire Amadeus Klein.
Fed up with unfair treatment and exploitation, Nebula’s interns are going on strike.
Simultaneously, Nebula has stumbled upon a groundbreaking discovery: a message, potentially from an extra-terrestrial source.
As the higher-ups clamp down on the strike and tensions rise amongst the interns, cryptic symbols from space become the least of their worries.
Through trying to better workers’ rights, Nebula’s employees must learn to build solidarity with each other and possibly other life forms… 3-23 August (odd dates).
Badger
Trying to get through the many challenges of their day, a team of young co-workers in a broken system begin to have their limits pushed to the extreme.
How much pressure can one person take?
There’s a wedding on the lawn, a promotion on the line and a badger on the grounds.
How will they put out all those fires?
And is there really a badger causing havoc on the estate?
Badger is a new piece of writing that highlights the recent issues that are affecting young people today.
You Deserve It
Six affluent socialites convene for a night of excess in a luxurious Edinburgh penthouse.
They consider themselves the best of what the creative arts have to offer, the self-proclaimed future of their respective industries: after all, their daddies have told them so.
Glasses clink and laughter fills the room, but the atmosphere reeks of deception and Chanel No 5 as veiled threats begin to emerge, hidden agendas and fractured loyalties are exposed.
In this suspenseful exploration of privilege, wealth, and status, where do the lines between innocence and complicity lie?
Modern Love Is Not A Dream
'When I started this thesis, I had no idea I’d end up where I have.
But, as all good researchers know, the thing you think you’re investigating doesn’t usually end up being the most interesting part of the conversation.' Love is a complicated subject and Liv wants to set the record straight.
Dive into the intricacies of love, modern dating, trauma and the patriarchy as we follow her and her many prospects as she tries to balance her relationships, her thesis and her past together.
4-24 August (even dates).
Rat King Gospel
Three childhood friends reunite after one of them finds success in her children's book series The Rat King Gospels.
But whose idea was The Rat King?
Is he merely a storybook hero?
Secrets begin to unravel as they piece together the untold story of what really happened to the monstrously cruel headteacher, Mr Mackenzie.
Rat King Gospel is a new drama touching on themes of morality, friendship, responsibility and childhood trauma.
The play explores how the games we play as children can stick with us as adults in ways which we never could have imagined.
Di(n)e
A man has decided to take his own life and finds himself in a state of limbo between life and death.
Here he meets dead family, loved ones and a former enemy, each with something to say about his choice.
With only an hour before his body dies, his soul must decide between life and death.
4-24 August (event dates).
We Used To Be Girl Scouts
Drew thinks she’s pregnant.
Sasha loves her female best friend.
And Mary’s home life is a dark pit of despair.
Finding themselves crushed under the unbearable weight that is teenagerdom, they take to the woods to clear their minds and make some tough decisions.
When Mary discloses her plans of running away for good, suddenly life has more possibility and meaning than ever before.
But is it really within their grasp?
A triptych of the pain, joy and big feelings that make up adolescent girlhood.
Loose Ends
A street trader from Glasgow and a runaway from Skye meet in unusual circumstances!
Through miscommunication and comic interaction their relationship is formed.
A bittersweet, poignant play about the urban/rural divide and loneliness.
5-10 August (all dates).
Trauma + Time – PTSD = Comedy!
Comedy and therapy for PTSD have a lot in common: both deal with the absurd and rely on authenticity to be good.
Clinical psychologist and researcher Edel McGlanaghy (the NHS and Edinburgh Napier University) demonstrates how trauma can be funny and comedy can be therapeutic, all at the same time.
Make More Fake News!
With the advent of generative AI for text, video and images paired with deregulation of social media and news websites, fake news has never been easier to create and spread.
So if you can’t beat them – join them?
Ted Carlson Webster (Edinburgh Napier University) shares an unconventional disinformation deterrent: teaching people how to write convincing fake news themselves.
Paradigms Art Exhibition
Paradigms contemporary painting exhibition features vibrant new work from four Edinburgh-based women artists.
With distinct world views, they share a common passion for their individual influences and subjects.
Their diverse approaches include abstract work focused on the natural environment (Catherine Young), atmospherics and botanicals (Hazel Brady), figurative scenes depicting emotional ambiguity (Jayne McIntyre), and expressive imaginaries of the tourist gaze (Louise Todd).
First time at the Fringe!
‘A must-see painting exhibition by contemporary artists showing new work using a variety of approaches’ ( SmartLeisureGuide.wordpress.com , 2022).
10-14 August.
A Giant on the Bridge
Unflinching, spellbinding gig theatre devised by award-winning theatre maker Liam Hurley and songwriter Jo Mango, also featuring Louis Abbott (Admiral Fallow), Louise McCraw, Raveloe and Solareye (Edinburgh Napier's Dave Hook).
Every year in Scotland, thousands of people return home from prison to an uncertain future.
A Giant on the Bridge reveals the hidden heartbeat within one such story.
Identity, family, community, restoration and injustice are explored through original songwriting, hip-hop and immersive storytelling by five of Scotland’s leading musicians.
Developed with the Distant Voices Community – people from across the criminal justice system.
Part of MadeInScotlandShowcase.com.
2-6, 8-11, 13-18 August.
Why do we need whistle-blowers?
What motivates whistle-blowers to disclose official information, corruption, or fraud to a wider public?
Despite risk to reputation, livelihood and even life, whistle-blowers will work with investigative journalists to bring to light illegal activities that would otherwise go undetected.
What protection does our legal system afford such individuals and what of the ‘bad leakers’ who are motivated to disclose information for personal political or financial gain and no regard to public interest?
21 August.
Supported by Edinburgh Napier and features the University's Dr Eamonn O'Neill.
The Napier University Drama Society presents…Why Do We Lie?
Why do we as humans lie?
It’s in our nature, is it not?
There’s a whole host of justifications, like not hurting someone’s feelings, protecting others, giving the illusion of hope, saving your own skin or just being someone you're not (actors, am I right?).
But is it always the right thing to do?
19-24 August.
SunDate Roast
Join us for a SunDate Roast!
The ultimate late-evening Fringe spectacle!
Dive into the madness of stand-up comedy, improv, and dating roasts – perhaps some tears, too.
Each night, a new performer will be taking the stage, with immersive audience participation.
Expect endless laughs, banter and surprises.
You might even find yourself on stage or leaving with a prize, or...
perhaps single!
Bring your pals for a guaranteed good time or dare to come with your other half for a challenging night out!
Serial daters at the front, please!
Features Edinburgh Napier Creative Advertising student Mihalis Michailidis.
900 voices
Celebrating St Giles’ Cathedral’s momentous 900th anniversary, 900 Voices is an ever-evolving sound installation created entirely from the diverse voices of Edinburgh’s communities.
Exploring the themes that anchor this year’s International Festival programme, reflections on belonging and community reverberate through St Giles’ Cathedral in 900 Voices.
This experimental installation - by Edinburgh Napier's Zoë Irvine with Lindsay Perth and Jules Rawlinson - emerged from recorded conversations with people from all walks of life across Edinburgh.
Prepare for some deep listening to take in the rhythms and cadences of these conversations.
2-25 August.
Kyle Dolan: No Place Like Home
Recipient of the Adelaide Fringe Funding Grant, filmmaker, comedian and Edinburgh Napier alumnus Kyle Dolan makes his highly anticipated Edinburgh Fringe solo-show debut.
Using stand-up comedy and storyboard illustrations, Kyle pitches the audience a movie about what the concept of "home" means when you are drawn in so many different directions, as well as what happens when you are the only Scottish kid in school when Shrek is the biggest movie in the world.
'Certainly one to keep an eye on' ( AdelaideInsider.wordpress.com ).
Illustrations by Alex Mills.
***** (Funny Tonne, Melbourne International Comedy Festival).
31 July, 1-11, 13-18, 20-25 August.
Kyle Dolan: Liars and Clowns: A Late Night Comedy Show
Alexander Tait: Kev Campbell Was He
After a failed graffiti attempt in a nightclub toilet, Kev Campbell ends up meeting a stranger who completely changes the course of his life.
Kev Campbell Was He is a comedic one-man show tackling themes of toxic masculinity and homophobia in modern day Scotland, telling the story of the friendship that forces a man to reckon with heteronormativity in society and himself.
Nominated for the David MacLennan Award in 2024, this funny and thought-provoking play is written and performed by Scottish theatre maker Alexander Tait.
5-10 August.
Rachelle Atalla & Ali Millar: Longing in a Blazing World
In Rachelle Atalla’s The Salt Flats, six strangers journey to a retreat in the salt flats of Bolivia, desperate to find a cure for their various ills.
Edinburgh Napier alumna Ali Millar’s debut novel Ava Anna Ada is set during a scorching summer when the past comes calling for Anna.
The authors discuss their atmospheric novels this afternoon with Zoe Venditozzi.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-animal-and-conservation-biology-undergraduate-fulltime:
Animal & Conservation Biology introduces the diversity of animals, their form and function.
You'll study how animals have evolved and adapted to different environments in terms of their ecology, behaviour and physiology.
You'll learn how this knowledge can be put to use to guide conservation and understand the impacts of pollution and climate change on animals.
Edinburgh and the surrounding countryside is rich in biodiversity and you'll visit local sites of scientific interest, gaining valuable fieldwork experience, as well as going on residential trips, including to the Algarve.
You'll leave equipped with a range of skills for a career in animal conservation or management, including species identification, field surveying techniques and collection and analysis of biological data, or you could continue on to postgraduate study.
We are 2nd for Animal Sciences among UK modern universities in the Sunday Times' Good University Guide 2022.
We have a 100% satisfaction rate for our Biological Science (non-specific) courses (National Student Survey, 2022).
Full-time (available as part-time )
CC11
It’s great learning such current and consistently reviewed content.
Lecturers and teachers are inspiring and encouraging.
They support communication and are open to inquiries beyond course content.
Ester Eriksson
BSc (Hons) Animal & Conservation Biology
I felt very inspired by our lecturers who often showed practical examples from their own research and always were very encouraging and enthusiastic.
Julia Jung
BSc (Hons) Marine and Freshwater Biology
You'll discover how studies in animal behaviour, ecology, physiology and evolution help us to understand animals in their natural environment.
You'll explore the main environmental threats faced by animals, how to assess their habitats and appreciate the many ways to enact effective conservation.
You'll get hands-on fieldwork experience, including residential field trips to the Isle of Cumbrae and the Algarve.
Your learning is also supported by internationally recognised research and you'll get the opportunity to conduct your own research project, benefitting from the knowledge of our diverse staff and links with external organisations.
You'll develop a range of specialist skills relevant to future career paths such as:
The applied nature of this course develops skills that enhance your employability, including team working, problem solving, research, communication and IT.
You'll also acquire specialist analytical and numerical skills, be able to collect a range of biological data and communicate scientific information effectively.
Local industry links help you with gaining work-related experience and project opportunities, which will enhance your ability to compete for jobs after graduation.
The emphasis on research also equips you with the knowledge and skills to continue on to postgraduate study, including possible PhD study within Edinburgh Napier University.
You will learn through a variety of different methods, including lectures, tutorials, field studies and laboratory classes.
More than two-thirds of our permanent academic staff are Fellows of the Higher Education Academy, reflecting their dedication and formal training in teaching undergraduate students.
Together with our accreditation by The Royal Society of Biology - which is your assurance of the quality and relevance of our course to the needs of employers - this is your assurance of the up-to-date knowledge of our teaching staff and guarantee of a supportive learning environment.
A variety of assessment methods are used, including examination, assignments and practical assessments.
These are balanced across the Programme to provide a challenging assessment experience, which allows you to do your best.
Erasmus Programme opportunities - We have links with Roskilde University, in Denmark, where students can study in English.
Your can find more details about particular modules at https://www.modules.napier.ac.uk/
What are the entry requirements for Animal and Conservation Technology?
Advanced entry into Year 2 or Year 3 is possible for students with suitable qualifications.
Click here for further information about our entry requirements and admissions policies
BCC including Biology, Chemistry, Physics or Applied Science.
European Baccalaureate
BBC to include Biology
BBB to include Biology
Pass in a related subject* with B in the graded unit.
*Biomedical Sciences, Biological Sciences, Applied Science, Applied Bioscience, Applied Animal Biology or Wildlife and Conservation Management
By studying Animal & Conservation Biology at Edinburgh Napier University, you will have gained invaluable knowledge and practical insight in how animals adapt and interact with each other, along with their evolution, ecology and behavioral aspects, and how their environment affects this.
You will become an effective communicator and team player, with a good level of analytical and problem-solving skills which you can take into the workplace along with key practical skills including species identification, field surveying, habitat assessments and the ability to read and analyse biological data.
If you enjoy a hands-on, practical focus to your work, and want to become an expert in animal ecology, then this might be the right course for you.
Careers you may consider on graduating from this programme include, wildlife conservation, environmental management, field surveying, working for environmental charities, ecological consultancy, and government agencies.
Gaining a degree in Animal and Conservation Biology gives you discipline-specific knowledge and skills, but it is not restrictive.
You will gain a range of highly desirable transferable (meta) skills, including teamwork, communication, numeracy, computer literacy and data analysis, which are valued by employers within, but also outside the Life Sciences sector.
As a wildlife conservation officer, you will have effective communication skills and be a team player who works with local communities to protect at-risk species and their habitats.
Within this role, you will likely work in wildlife agencies, a government department or for a university to make vital habitat management decisions and put them into practice.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-animal-and-conservation-biology-undergraduate-parttime:
Gain hands-on experience and prepare for a career in wildlife conservation by exploring how animals adapt to their environment and interact with each other.
Edinburgh and the surrounding countryside is rich in biodiversity and you'll visit local sites of scientific interest gaining valuable fieldwork experience, as well as going on residential trips, including to the Algarve.
In second year, students do have the option of undertaking 'Volunteering and Employability'.
This can include an element of work placement.
6 years
Erasmus Programme and International Student Exchange Program opportunities are available in the second and third year of study for one or two trimesters.
You can discover more about particular modules at https://www.modules.napier.ac.uk/
What are the entry requirements for Animal and Conservation Biology?
International Applicants must therefore have other valid immigration leave to study on this programme.
Standard Entry Requirement: BBBB including Human Biology, Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
Minimum Offer Entry Requirement: BBCC including Human Biology, Biology, Chemistry or Physics.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-applied-microbiology-undergraduate-fulltime:
Microbes are everywhere - inside our bodies, in the air we breathe, even in the food we eat.
They are so small that millions can fit into the eye of a needle yet without them we couldn’t exist.
Through specialist modules in medical, food and environmental biotechnology, you'll explore how we exploit the diversity of microorganisms in the production of drugs and food and the decontamination of polluted environments.
This will prepare you for employment in a wide range of occupations, including those requiring specialist knowledge in microbiology and biotechnology.
C510
This course provides you with specialist skills in food, medical and environmental microbiology and biotechnology while also giving you a broad understanding of the biological sciences.
You’ll learn how the human immune system responds to invading bacteria and viruses, and how this knowledge is exploited by pharmaceutical industries in the development of drugs, vaccines and diagnostics.
You'll also discover how an understanding of a microbe’s ability to exist in diverse environments leads to applications that benefit humans and the environment.
Most modules have laboratory classes giving you the opportunity to study with a hands-on approach.
In the final year of the Honours degree, you will conduct your own project in one of our established and internationally recognised research teams.
Throughout this course you’ll develop transferable skills which will help you compete in the workplace, including problem solving, communication, organisational and presentation skills.
You will also gain specialist skills in food, environmental and medical microbiology and biotechnology, in addition to a broad understanding of the biological sciences.
This can include an element of work placement..
What are the entry requirements for Applied Microbiology?
By studying Applied Microbiology at Edinburgh Napier University, you will become an expert in microbes and how microbiology can be applied within medical, food, pharmaceutical and environmental biotechnology sectors, including in the production of drugs and food products.
You’ll gain a wide range of desirable, discipline-specific practical skills in the laboratory to apply your knowledge of microbes and their environment to equip you for the workplace.
You will become an effective communicator, team player, and develop strong analytical skills.
Microbiology has close links with other disciplines, such as immunology, molecular biology, and human health, offering a wide scope of potential careers.
Employment you may consider on completion of this programme include working in industry and research sectors, in areas such as, food and drink, pharmaceuticals, fuels/biofuels, water, biotechnology and healthcare.
Non-lab positions may include, sales and marketing, education, communications, policy-informing roles or consultancy for charities, industry, or government.
If you are interested in practical work and have keen problem-solving skills, then this might be the right course for you.
Gaining a degree in Applied Microbiology gives you discipline-specific knowledge and skills, but it is not restrictive.
A microbiologist specialises in the study of microorganisms, including their structure, function and the impact they have on human health and the environment.
Coupled with an understanding of the rapidly-evolving field of biotechnology, industries you could work in within this role are extensive, ranging from agriculture to the food and drink sector, medicine and healthcare, or government and environmental agencies.
Tasks you might carry out within this role include:

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-applied-microbiology-undergraduate-parttime:
You'll learn how the human immune system responds to invading bacteria and viruses, and how this knowledge is exploited by pharmaceutical industries in the development of drugs, vaccines and diagnostics.
You'll also discover how an understanding of a microbe's ability to exist in diverse environments leads to applications that benefit humans and the environment.
Throughout this course, you'll develop transferable skills, which will help you compete in the workplace, including problem solving, communication, organisational and presentation skills.
These are balanced across the programme to provide a challenging assessment experience, which allows you to do your best.
Can I get admission in Applied Microbiology based on my working experience in this sector?
Award of Diploma with 28 points overall with three HL subjects at grades 6, 5, 4 including a Science (Biology, Human Biology, Chemistry or Physics) at minimum grade 5.
Employment you may consider on completion of this programme include working in industry and research sectors, in areas such as, food and drink, pharmaceuticals, fuels/biofuels, water, biotechnology and healthcare.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-biological-science-undergraduate-fulltime:
Our course provides you with a broad understanding of biological sciences including biomedical sciences, microbiology, animal and marine biology and immunology.
The Biological Sciences degree allows tailored learning to your individual interests.
There will therefore be some aspects that are similar to the other degree structures, but allowing flexibility.
You'll benefit from studying in Edinburgh and the surrounding countryside which is rich in biodiversity, and visit local sites of outstanding natural beauty and special scientific interest.
You’ll develop biological skills relevant to your chosen area, such as good laboratory practice, competence in microbiological techniques and field surveying.
Edinburgh Napier is ranked Top Modern University in Scotland by the Sunday Times' Good University Guide 2022.
Full-time (available as Part-time )
C121
Our biological science courses give you the option to study the areas of biology which interest you the most.
Our dynamic teaching staff have a wealth of experience in teaching and research and area currently active in their research and this help to shape the course.
You'll benefit from international research conducted across the biological sciences and will have the opportunity to conduct your own research project.
The applied nature of this course develops skills that make you more employable including team working, problem solving, research, communication and IT.
As well as specialist analytical and numerical skills, you will be able to collect biological data and communicate scientific information.
The skills you will gain prepare you for work in a number of areas.
You can also continue on to postgraduate study, including possible PhD and further academic study.
Erasmus and International Student Exchange Programs opportunities are available in the second and third year of study for one or two trimesters.
Genes and Inheritance Trimester 1
Select 2 option modules from:
Research Methods
Trimester 1
Trimester 2
Select 3 option modules from:
Professional Practice Trimester 1
What are the entry requirements for Biological Science?
By studying Biological Sciences at Edinburgh Napier University, you will become competent in a range of practical skills within this discipline, from field work to microbiological techniques to molecular analysis.
You will be knowledgeable in a range of different disciplines (depending on your module selection) and have the ability to apply your knowledge in a practical way.
The programme will help you become an effective communicator, troubleshooter with strong digital and analytical skills.
If you are interested in Biology but do not want to focus on a single discipline, this may be the right course for you.
There is a range of careers you may consider on completion of your degree such as becoming a biological scientist, further education, industrial research, development or production, regulatory roles such as quality control/assurance, project management, sales and marketing or a consultancy role.
Gaining a degree in Biological Sciences gives you a range of biology-specific knowledge and skills, but it is not restrictive.
You will gain many highly desirable transferable (meta) skills, including teamwork, communication, numeracy, computer literacy and data analysis, which are valued by employers within, but also outside the Life Science sector.
As a biologist, you will study living organisms and how they interact with one another and their environment.
You could work within a wide range of sub disciplines, which will vary based on your area of specialisation.
Biologists may work in the field, in the lab or, even with large data sets and augmented technology to investigate, inform and communicate the latest developments in the sector.
Tasks you may carry out within this role include:
Lab and fieldwork , in industry, academia or publicly funded bodies
Analysis of big data sets/bioinformatics
Public education and outreach
Development and manufacturing
Sales and marketing
Advising on government environmental and public health policies
Project management
Regulatory roles, quality control/quality assurance

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-biological-science-undergraduate-parttime:
Our course provides you with a broad understanding of biological sciences including biomedical sciences, microbiology, toxicology, animal and marine biology and immunology.
We have a 92% satisfaction rate for our Biological Science course (National Student Survey, 2023).
Part-time (available as Full-time )
(available as Full-time )
Select 1 option module from:
* Research project is a core module and can be taken over two trimesters (suggested: trimester 2 of year 5 and trimester 2 of year 6 or trimester 2 and 3 of year 6).
Research project can also be completed in trimester 3 of year 6 for additional flexibility.
** Microbial Biotechnology is a 40-credit module.
As a part time student, you have additional flexibility in terms of the number of modules taken at any one time, but you should take between 20-40 credits per trimester.
Please note, taking a reduced number of credits may increase your programme length.
What are the entry requirements for Biological Sciences?
Advanced entry into Year 2, or Year 3 of this course is possible for students with suitable qualifications.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-biomedical-science-undergraduate-fulltime:
Biomedical science, although well established as a scientific discipline, is also a rapidly advancing subject constantly striving towards improving human health and creating a need for highly skilled biomedical scientists.
This course gives you a broad understanding of the scientific investigation of human health and disease.
It covers the key aspects and principles of biochemistry, molecular biology, immunology and physiology and their application to the causes and management of disease.
Your learning is supported by our research teams, who are at the forefront of biomedical research and contribute to all aspects of teaching, both lab and non-lab based.
You'll gain the skills and knowledge to develop a career in biomedical science or progress to postgraduate study.
We have a 95% satisfaction rate for our Biomedical Science course (National Student Survey, 2023).
B941
I enjoyed being able to safely access laboratories and university facilities during trimester 1.
Now I'm back in Italy, I still feel completely supported as a student of Edinburgh Napier University.
Alessandra Bossoni
BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science
As well as developing an understanding of the scientific investigation of human health and disease, you will gain more specific knowledge of disease processes from the study of clinical laboratory specialities, such as cellular pathology, clinical biochemistry, immunology, genetics and medical microbiology.
This enables a biomedical scientist to understand the science of the causes, consequences, diagnosis and treatment of disease.
You’ll be equipped with the skills necessary to plan and perform a research project for publication and be aware of the need for good laboratory practice, health and safety and legal and ethical considerations.
You’ll have the flexibility to study different areas of biology and tailor the course to your own interests.
You'll also benefit from studying in the heart of Edinburgh and the surrounding countryside which is rich in biodiversity.
The applied nature of this course encourages the development of skills that make you more employable including problem solving, research, team working, communication and IT.
Find out more by visiting our Facebook page .
What are the entry requirements for Biomedical Science?
If you want to get more information on the admission process, please get in touch with the Undergraduate admissions team by submitting an enquiry form above.
Minimum Year 3
By studying Biomedical Science at Edinburgh Napier University, you will learn how this discipline informs the improvement of human health on a global scale.
You will become technically competent in a range of key skills required of a biomedical science graduate.
You will carry out extensive practical learning in the laboratory, becoming a team player with excellent communication skills, while gaining in-depth knowledge of scientific investigation in relation to human health and disease.
You could work within biomedical science or go into further study or perhaps take a teacher education programme.
If you are interested in studying the latest developments in human health and disease, then this may be the right course for you.
Gaining a degree in Biomedical Science gives you discipline-specific knowledge and skills, but it is not restrictive.
You will gain a range of highly desirable transferable (meta) skills, including communication, numeracy, computer literacy and data analysis, which are valued by employers within, but also outside the Life Science sector.
There are a broad range of employment options, ranging from working in a laboratory, either in industry, the NHS or academia, where you could be involved in exciting exploratory research, diagnostics or product development.
You could be involved in analysis of big data and bioinformatics to inform precision medicine.
Graduates also find careers in the Life Sciences sector, which are non-laboratory based, such as journalism, sales, policy work, communications, quality assurance, working for charities and public engagement.
Tasks you might carry out within your role include:

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-biomedical-science-undergraduate-parttime:
“The application portal is temporarily unavailable due to ongoing system updates and will be back online shortly.
We recommend submitting an application later in the week once the online application is restored.
Alternatively, a manual PDF application is currently available, please complete and email the form including any supporting documentation to pgadmissions@napier.ac.uk .”
As well as developing an understanding of the scientific investigation of human health and disease, you will gain more specific knowledge of disease processes from the study of clinical laboratory specialties, such as cellular pathology, clinical biochemistry, immunology, genetics and medical microbiology.
The modules and timings shown above are a possible structure that students could take.
The precise combinations and schedule of modules taken have some flexibility and will depend on time students can commit to study.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-marine--freshwater-biology-undergraduate-fulltime:
Explore the aquatic environment, its importance in understanding climate change, and how to monitor and protect marine and freshwater species in a sustainable manner.
The aquatic realm makes up more than 70 per cent of the Earth’s surface and represents the largest domain on earth.
This course focuses on the study of the fascinating diversity of life contained in these habitats.
You’ll come to appreciate the issues involved in management of aquatic resources and learn how a firm understanding of the organisation of aquatic ecosystems can promote use in a sustainable manner.
Aquatic habitats and organisms are also pivotal in the understanding of climatic change making this course very relevant to a career in conservation and environmental protection.
C161
Are you interested in global issues?
Are you interested in the marine or freshwater environment?
If it’s aquatic biology including coral reefs and sea birds that takes your fancy or indeed conservation and the impact of pollution on the aquatic environment, this is certainly a course worth joining.
You’ll study the adaptation, ecology and behaviour of a range of species found in marine, coastal and freshwater environments.
You’ll learn about the non-living environment, including climate, weather, water and sediment properties and pollution.
You’ll also learn about aspects of management, including pollution assessment and control and fisheries science.
Scotland is home to some fascinating aquatic environments and you’ll get to experience these during practical fieldwork, both locally and further afield, including a residential field course to the Isle of Cumbrae.
The course will equip you with a broad portfolio of skills in both specialist techniques such as species identification, surveying, data analysis and GIS along with communication of scientific information, IT, problem solving and team working which will allow you to pursue a range of possible career paths.
Erasmus opportunities.
Links with a Danish university to study in English: Roskilde University .
What are the entry requirements for Marine and Freshwater Biology?
By studying Marine & Freshwater biology at Edinburgh Napier University, you will learn about the marine and freshwater species habitats, management of aquatic resources and, also learn about ecosystems and sustaining these for underwater life.
On completion of the course, you will have become an expert in marine species as well as coastal and freshwater environments, with practical skills in aquaculture, fisheries management, and conservation.
Roles you may consider working in include conservation, environmental protection, habitat and species management, pollution control and education.
If you are interested in global issues, pollution and the freshwater environment, and are a keen problem solver and practical thinker then this might be the right course for you.
Gaining a degree in Marine and Freshwater gives you discipline specific knowledge and skills, but it is not restrictive.
A marine or freshwater ecologist specialises in studying and monitoring the communities of animals that live in our aquatic ecosystems, from oceans and rivers to mangroves and reefs.
You will carry out lab work, research and fieldwork on ecological communities, population changes and pollution threats.
You will be an effective communicator, team player and critical thinker, with excellent writing and analytical skills.
Daily tasks and responsibilities you may have within this role include:

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-marine--freshwater-biology-undergraduate-parttime:
.Placement and Study Abroad opportunities are subject to UK and Scottish Government health and travel advice.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-biomedical-science-postgraduate-fulltime:
This course is designed to enable you pursue a career as a biomedical scientist in a variety of research, development and leadership roles.
You'll be supported by an internationally-recognised and highly active biomedicine science group with varied research interests and links with healthcare industries, research institutes and the NHS .
1 year
I love it here because it feels like everyone cares about you and your future.
The lecturers have so much passion for their research and the support is just fantastic!
Hazel Braven-Wootton
MSc Biomedical Science Student
1:38
During your study, you will develop a detailed knowledge of key concepts in immunology, toxicology, pharmacology and disease biology and learn how these disciplines are applied in biomedical science.
You’ll gain critical understanding of specialist research areas and unique insights into the challenges currently facing biomedical science.
You’ll also acquire an in-depth appreciation of research and development practices in the healthcare industries through guest lectures and site visits to specialised laboratories.
These experiences will allow you to explore and critique issues of relevance to professional working practice, enhancing your skills in evidence-based decision making.
There is an emphasis on developing your practical laboratory skills with various opportunities for hands-on experience in a range of current techniques and practices.
In your final trimester you’ll undertake an independent project within a vibrant biomedical research team, allowing you to apply and further develop your technical, research and professional skills.
There may be the opportunity to conduct your research project externally in a relevant organisation or industry.
You’ll also develop key skills including communication, problem solving, team work, project management, and leadership.
This is a full-time course  and is split up into three trimesters.
You can choose to start in either January or September.
Duration:
You’ll learn through interactive lectures, workshops, tutorials and laboratory sessions, and by engaging with guided independent study.
Site visits and/or guest lectures may also be arranged.
A variety of assessment tools are used to enhance and evaluate your learning.
Your assessments are mapped out across your programme and include formative work to help practice your skills, as well as summative work which will build on this preparatory work.
These are carefully spaced out across each trimester to avoid clashes and include many different types of assessment such as essays, lab reports, posters, oral presentations, short discussions, class tests and exams.
Some of these assessments involve group-work, whilst others are individual.
For example: In the Advanced Immunology module, you will undertake a group poster assessment, and a class test.
In the Biology of Disease and Therapeutics module, you will undertake a data handling exercise, a case study analysis and an oral presentation.
The MSc Biomedical Science programme is delivered at our landmark Sighthill Campus where students learn in state of the art laboratories equipped with, for example, cell tissue culture hoods; confocal microscopy; molecular biology; flow cytometry and histology equipment, to ensure we meet the needs of students entering employment and research roles in the biomedical science sector.
In this module you will gain a comprehensive and detailed understanding of the cells, molecules and functions of the human immune system.
You will learn about the role of the immune system in diseases such as autoimmune disorders and allergy.
You will also learn about immunotechnology aspects including blood typing, transplantation, monoclonal antibodies and vaccines, illustrating the value of immunology in diagnosis and therapeutics.The innate and adaptive immune responses; the cellular and molecular components of the immune system; inflammation and vaccine adjuvants; role of dendritic cells and pattern recognition receptors (PRRs); antigen processing and presentation; role of B and T cells in immune responses; immunological techniques e.g.
flow cytometry and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA); immune tolerance and autoimmune disease; transplantation; tumour immunology; hypersensitivity; Monoclonal antibodies and therapeutics.
The module will introduce you to the concepts of health and illness, cell adaptation, inflammation, cell injury/death, and neoplasia.
Biological mechanisms underlying disease will be studied, including consideration of genetic causes of disease.
You will study the development of disease, together with the principles of disease pathogenesis, investigation and treatment.
You will be introduced to the general principles of pharmacology, identification of therapeutic targets, mechanisms of drug action, and the potential side-effects associated with medicines Concepts of health and illness.
Tissue responses to damage, acute and chronic inflammation.
The principles and current developments in the pathogenesis, investigation and treatment of diseases, exemplified from the molecular level through to system level.
Case studies of conditions such as cancer, endocrine disorders, cardiovascular disease, haematological disease; their causes, pathologies, the role of the diagnostic laboratory in diagnosis and the basis of treatments currently available.
The advantages and disadvantages of current investigative procedures and treatments are discussed, and the role of lifestyle as a contributing factor in disease development is evaluated.
This module is designed to deal with the different strategies and approaches of drug design of new chemotherapeutic candidates targeting different biological targets.
You will learn how to evaluate existing and new biological targets and contemporary drug design methods (chemical and biological) to combat these disease states.
This module provides you with the opportunity to develop an in-depth understanding of basic and essential drug design approaches of major chemotherapeutic classes targeting life-threatening diseases: notably, cancer; viral and resistant bacterial infection.
You will expand your knowledge to understand the mechanism of action of protein kinases in the biological signalling pathways and how you can target these proteins in different disease.
You will develop the required knowledge to identify the key possible interactions between the drugs and their biological targets through different workshops using computer software.
You will reinforce the relevance and importance of the principles of chemotherapy in targeting cancer disease through targeting key intracellular biological components.
You will learn the basic aspects of targeted therapies, targeted protein degradation (TPD), and design of prodrugs.
You will expand your knowledge to understand the design of molecular probes in cancer and their mechanism of action.
This module is designed to provide you with the essential aspects of mechanisms of multidrug resistance (MDR) and contemporary drug design of antibacterial drug candidates.
In addition, you will expand your knowledge to learn the novel concepts in drug design treatment strategy in the context of chemotherapy such as monoclonal antibodies and antibody conjugated therapy.
On completion of this module, you should be aware of the significance of the isosteric drug design approaches and its application in designing new drug candidates targeting different biological targets and understanding the structure activity relationship (SAR) of these candidates.
You will be integrated into a number of tutorials and practical sessions to develop the practical skills required to conduct synthetic chemical reactions to build up potential drug-like candidates and purify them using column chromatography technique.
In this module you will compare and contrast ways in which different microbial pathogens cause infection in human hosts.
Through critical appraisal of current scientific literature, you will broaden your understanding of microbial pathogenesis and evaluate how we apply such knowledge to solve global problems, such as the threat posed by antimicrobial resistance.
Throughout the module, you will develop skills to communicate complex scientific information about relevant mechanisms of pathogenesis.
The module will provide you with an introduction to the major aspects of the scientific study of drugs in man, not just with respect to the design of optimum drug therapy, but also looking at the differences between pharmacology and toxicology.
You will learn about how drugs work, their limitations, and the variability of response.
You will study how cells transduce messages from the plasma membrane into the cell and nucleus.
You will learn about how the body?s endogenous signalling system works and how this informs drug development.
This includes the basic principles of receptor theory, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and their relevance to establishing the theoretical and practical basis for the rational clinical application of drugs.
You will also examine the cellular and molecular mechanisms of toxicology.This includes the basic principles of toxicokinetics (absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion), and the factors affecting each.
You will examine the cellular and molecular mechanisms of xenobiotic toxicity, together with toxicity testing in the pharmaceutical industry.
You will gain an insight into how intracellular signalling mechanisms can be manipulated, resulting in new research methodology.
You will also engage with the literature surrounding molecular pharmacology and toxicology in order to understand recent developments in research in this area.You will cover the concept of ion channels and G protein-coupled receptors, intracellular kinase cascades, calcium signalling and linked control of transcription factors.
Manipulation of signalling cascades in therapeutics and research.
Basic principles of receptor theory, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and rational drug design.
Introduction to toxicology.
Toxicokinetics and toxicodynamics.
Detailed descriptions of specific toxicant and pharmacological examples.
In vitro and in vivo models of toxicity.
Mechanisms of xenobiotic toxicity and toxicity testing.
The module will include an overview of the research process including hypothesis and research question design and the role of the research literature as evidence to assist in the development of research ideas relevant to practice.
You will also learn about analysis and interpretation of data and how to ensure data generated is robust and scientifically valid and will explore aspects related to the importance of research governance and ethics in research design.
You will gain practice in scientific writing and have the opportunity to develop a research proposal designed to tackle a specific scientific problem in your field of study.
You will learn about some of the tools used in research in the fields of biology and chemistry, and how the research process links across multiple disciplines to solve specific scientific challenges, by gaining an appreciation of how this works in the real world using examples from current research.
You will also have an opportunity to develop your skills in the laboratory through hands on practical experience.
The entry requirements for this course is a Bachelor (Honours) Degree at a 2:2 or above, or equivalent.
We look for applicants to have a background in bio-molecular sciences such as biological sciences, biotechnology, molecular biology, immunology, virology, genetics, biochemistry, biomedical sciences, human biology, pharmacology, microbiology, forensic biology in order to be eligible for the programme.
We may also consider lesser qualifications if you have sufficient relevant work experience.
Can I get admission into Biomedical Science based on my working experience in this sector?

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-biomedical-science-postgraduate-parttime:
2-4 years
This is a part-time course which you can start in September or January with flexibility in the number of taught modules taken in each trimester.
The project may be carried out over one or two trimesters.
The course can take 2 to 4 years to complete, depending on your other commitments and availability.
You’ll learn through interactive lectures, workshops, tutorials, site visits and laboratory sessions, and by engaging with guided independent study.
The total fee you will pay is dependant upon the exit award you wish to achieve.
I was thoroughly impressed by the emphasis that is placed on training students for entering the working environment.…a good progression in my studies.
Masters graduate
MSc Biomedical Science

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-drug-design-and-biomedical-science-postgraduate-fulltime:
If you're interested in a career in the fascinating and challenging world of drug design, this is the course that will take you there.
Rather than presenting just one of the disciplines used in the field, this postgraduate degree, unique in Europe, blends the subjects you need - biomedicine and pharmaceutical science - into one comprehensive course that focuses on the integration of modern organomedicinal chemistry and molecular biology.
You’ll study various steps involved in developing and creating effective drugs, from concept to clinic, including the theories and practical applications of chemical drug design and immunology, pharmacology and molecular biology.
Learning will be based on emergent technology from academic research and how it is applied to the drug development process, identification of drug targets, and development of effective drugs via reference to the relevant biological systems and pathways.
Our MSc in Drug Design & Biomedical Science has a 92% overall student satisfaction score (PTES,2023).
I met with the best mentors, who really care about your project and support you at every step.
Using the skills I developed, I was able to secure two fully-funded PhD scholarship offers.
Yahya Salem
Drug Design and Biomedical Science student
I chose Edinburgh Napier for their high employability rate.
I secured my job before graduation.
Chiemezie Nwakire
Medical Biotechnology graduate
This course provides the knowledge, understanding and practical experience you’ll need to forge a rewarding career in research and development in the pharmaceutical, bioscience or healthcare sectors.
You’ll develop in-depth understanding of disease processes and molecular targets and an ability to apply this knowledge and theory to key aspects of drug design and biomedical science.
Equipped with the ability to follow developments in the field, you’ll learn to apply them to your work and make innovative contributions to the industry that will benefit others.
Complex issues often arise in this field: you’ll acquire the skills necessary to make informed judgements and effectively communicate decisions.
In your final trimester you’ll undertake an independent project within a vibrant biomedical or drug design research team, allowing you to apply and further develop your technical, research and professional skills.
There may be the opportunity to conduct your research project externally in a relevant organisation or industry in the UK or overseas.
Site visits and/or guest lectures may also be arranged to enrich your learning experience.
This is a full-time course and is split up into three trimesters.
In the Current Practice in Drug Development module, you will undertake a critical review and an exam.
The MSc Drug Design & Biomedical Science programme is delivered at our landmark Sighthill Campus where students learn in state of the art laboratories equipped with, for example, industry standard HPLC and GC/MS instrumentation; cell tissue culture hoods; confocal microscopy and flow cytometry equipment, to ensure we meet the needs of students entering employment and research roles in the biomedical, healthcare and pharmaceutical sectors.
You will develop a demonstrable understanding of the principles of drug development at the molecular level and the practices currently adopted in industry.
You will focus on the historical origins of existing drugs and contemporary methods being used to develop new ones.
You will learn to appraise and analyse physical parameters and data on drug candidate molecules.
Industry-modelled case studies, individual and group activities will enhance your presentational and organizational skills to achieve competency in workshop preparation and delivery; and in writing scientific research reviews.
Origins and new sources of drugs; natural products and new pharmaceuticals; the drug discovery and development process.
Molecular modelling.
Stereochemistry: a source of problems in medicinal chemistry.
Structure-based drug design; pharmacophore-based drug design; QSAR.
Physicochemical properties and drug design: electronic factors, lipophilicity, partition coefficient, steric parameters, prediction of drug-receptor interactions, ligand binding studies.
Drug formulation, prodrugs.
Computational techniques: analysis of conformational space, molecular graphics and the visualisation of molecules.
Molecular diversity.
Combinatorial libraries and modern methods of synthesis.
Current approaches to the chemotherapeutic treatment of (selected) diseases: cardiovascular disease, inflammation, cancer, viral- and bacterial- infection, diabetes, asthma, cognitive disorders.
Patent application procedures and IP maintenance; legislation.
What are the entry requirements for Drug Design and Biomedical Science?
The entry requirement for this course is a Bachelor (Honours) Degree at a 2:2 or above, or equivalent.
We look for applicants to have a background in bio-molecular sciences such as biological sciences, biotechnology, biomedical sciences, chemistry, pharmacology, pharmaceutical or medicinal chemistry, biochemistry, immunology, genetics, virology, molecular biology, forensic science in order to be eligible for the programme.
We may also consider lesser qualifications if you have sufficient relevant work experience.
Can I get admission into Drug Design and Biomedical Science based on my working experience in this sector?

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-drug-design-and-biomedical-science-postgraduate-parttime:
We may also consider lesser qualifications if you have sufficient relevant work experience.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-medical-biotechnology-postgraduate-fulltime:
Our course is designed to enhance your career in the medical or pharmaceutical biotechnology sectors in a variety of research, product and technology development and leadership roles.
Medical Biotechnology will equip you with broad theoretical knowledge and critical understanding of advanced principles in biotechnology.
You'll also gain the practical skills required to underpin a career within a business or research environment.
This course is an extremely interesting one for students interested in the latest innovations in science.
Staff are friendly, quick to help, and made the experience one to remember.
Sarah Moon
MSc Medical Biotechnology Student
This course provides detailed knowledge of key concepts in cell technology, bioprocessing and molecular analysis and how these approaches are applied in areas of specific relevance to medical and pharmaceutical applications such as drug design and discovery, immunology and microbial infection.
You’ll explore and critically evaluate the technologies driving discovery and modification of natural compounds for use in medicine, the relationship between progress in our understanding of disease and the development of diagnostics and treatments, as well as the application of theoretical concepts to the use of biological systems for production of drugs.
Business and entrepreneurship are also a core feature of this programme.
You’ll address themes that influence the success of any biotechnology venture such as intellectual property, bioethics, sustainability and public perception through the development of a novel business concept.
There is an emphasis on developing your practical laboratory skills with various opportunities for hands-on experience in a range of current techniques and practices such as mammalian cell culture and fermentation.
In your final trimester you’ll undertake an independent project within a vibrant research team, allowing you to apply and further develop your technical, research and professional skills.
There may be the opportunity to conduct your research project externally in a relevant organisation or bio-industry.
“This programme explores biotechnology from the core science to the translation of a novel concept into a real world commercial venture with biomedical application and looks at how this impacts society.” Dr Fiona Stainsby , lead academic for the course.
This is a full-time course over one year and is split up into three trimesters.
For example: In the Business and Bioethics module, you will work on a business plan and are required to prepare an oral pitch and a written report.
In the Cell Technology module, you will be assessed on practical lab skills and also via a class test.
The MSc Medical Biotechnology programme is delivered at our landmark Sighthill Campus where students learn in state of the art laboratories equipped with, for example, cell tissue culture hoods; category II microbiology facilities; anaerobic chambers; bioreactors; confocal microscopy and molecular biology equipment, to ensure we meet the needs of students entering employment and research roles in the healthcare and life science sector.
You will be introduced to emerging technologies in the Biomedical Sciences discipline (e.g.
Stem cells, Genome editing, Immunotherapy) and learn how they are being applied to transform drug development and delivery.
You will develop important, transferable scientific communication skills by presenting a seminar and by synthesis of written reports.
This course covers various topics that are essential for understanding the development of biotechnology and its impact.
Through the development of your own business venture concept, you will explore key concepts including innovation and invention, intellectual property rights (IPR), patents, and licensing, as well as business models and commercialisation strategies.
We will delve into the national and global context of biotechnology, examining sectors, markets, trends, and emerging technologies.
You will also learn about the regulatory framework governing risk management and explore bioethics and the history of ethical regulation in biotechnology.
We will also discuss the legal implications of unethical behaviour, corporate responsibility, and society's perception of biotechnology.
Sustainability, including environmental, social, and economic aspects, will be explored, and you will have opportunities to discuss current topics like personalised medicine, stem cell research, genetics and the use of animals or human subjects in research.
In this module you will be introduced to various techniques and strategies used in handling microorganisms and mammalian cell lines that are important in cell technologies.
This will include different methods and approaches for culturing, preserving, and manipulating various cell types including microbial, human/animal primary, and immortalised cell lines.
Key aspects of cell handling will be explored including media design, isolation and purification, sterility, inoculum development, and cell quantification.
We will delve into different approaches for manipulating cells and improving strains for bioprocessing, including genetic modification and stress fermentation, illustrated through case studies.
You will develop an understanding of bioprocessing technologies, the units of operation and factors influencing optimisation, including bioreactor design, mode of operation and scale-up, as well as product separation and analysis.
Both theoretical and applied aspects of fermentation growth kinetics will be explored, providing you with a comprehensive understanding.
You will also explore commercial aspects including regulatory requirements and quality assurance processes involved in cell technologies, including COSSH, GMP, GLP, biosafety and containment, as well as product approval, validation, and auditing.
Laboratory experiments and demonstrations will complement your theoretical learning and enhance your practical skills and confidence in the laboratory.
Your practical sessions will cover various aspects of cell technology and bioprocessing, such as cell culture methods, media preparation, fermentation set-up, operation and monitoring, product separation and analysis, experimental design, and data-handling.
What are the entry requirements for Medical Biotechnology?
The entry requirements for this course is a Bachelor (Honours) Degree at a 2:2 or above.
We look for applicants to have a background in bio-molecular sciences such as: biological sciences, biotechnology, molecular biology, immunology, virology, genetics, biochemistry, biomedical sciences, human biology, pharmacology, microbiology, forensic biology in order to be eligible for the programme.
We may consider degree equivalent or lesser qualifications if you have sufficient relevant work experience.
Can I get admission into Medical Biotechnology based on my working experience in this sector?

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-medical-biotechnology-postgraduate-parttime:
The project may be carried out over one or two trimesters and may take 2 to 4 years to complete.
Sites visits and/or guest lectures may also be arranged.
We look for applicants to have a background in bio-molecular sciences such as: biological sciences, biotechnology, molecular biology, immunology, virology, genetics, biochemistry, biomedical sciences, human biology, pharmacology, microbiology, forensic biology in order to be eligible for the programme.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-wildlife-biology-and-conservation-postgraduate-fulltime:
The greatest challenge facing conservation biologists today is the preservation of the world’s biodiversity in the face of considerable human demands on space and resources.
By combining the disciplines of wildlife biology and conservation biology, experienced staff will help you develop and apply both the theoretical knowledge and practical skills required to address this challenge.
This is the first and only degree in Scotland to be accredited by the Chartered Institute of Ecology and Environmental Management (CIEEM) .
Our graduates have gone on to work for environmental consultancies, government agencies and independent wildlife organisations nationally and internationally.
Our MSc in Wildlife Biology & Conservation has a 100% overall student satisfaction score (PTES,2023).
Typical entry point to this course is in September and January.
Full-time (available as Part-time / Distance learning )
12-18 Months
The course was very hands-on and I learned a lot of valuable practical skills.
The staff were always enthusiastic, helpful, and supportive.
Kirsty MacArthur
MSc Wildlife Biology & Conservation Graduate
I gained theoretical and practical training to pursue a career in wildlife research.
The faculty were always supportive.
As an international student, I would highly recommend the programme.
Stephen Dias
Edinburgh Napier University provided me with the tools to find a job in conservation that I love.
From their practical focus to the engaging debates in class with inspirational lecturers.
Isla MacLeod
MSc Wildlife & Conservation Biology Graduate
2:59
This course has been designed in conjunction with employers and professional bodies.
The main focus is on the development of practical employability skills.
In recognition of the strong practical and employability focus, this is the first and only degree in Scotland to be accredited by the Chartered Institute of Ecology and Environmental Management (CIEEM), meaning you'll graduate with an accredited MSc.
In addition to studying relevant theory, you’ll have the opportunity to develop: • advanced analytical skills for population quantification and management • practical skills used in identifying, quantifying and assessing biodiversity • transferable skills including communication, IT (GIS, R), problem solving, research and team working
Our staff have years of experience working worldwide in wildlife conservation and consultancy and are keen to help you develop your potential.
In addition, external speakers from a range of government agencies, charities and consultancies share their experiences and give insights into career options.
We develop our MSc research project topics in collaboration with a wide range of conservation organisations so that your MSc research answers pressing questions and your findings can be directly applied to real-world problems.
The core academic team boast a wide range of skills and research interests.
Staff include:
The full-time and part-time programmes are accredited with the Chartered Institute of Ecology and Environmental Management (CIEEM) and consequently carry detailed entry expectations which are likely to be met if you have a science-based Bachelor (Honours) Degree at 2:2 or above, preferably including aspects of ecology/zoology/environmental management/environmental science/countryside management/botany.
If you do not meet the standard entry criteria, please consult the Personal Statement Guidance document (PDF) which includes the CIEEM criteria and be sure to construct your personal statement according to the format specified.
Failing to do so will result in your application being deemed ineligible.
Applicants with good degrees in subjects other than ecology/zoology/environmental management/environmental science/countryside management/botany, will be considered if you demonstrate knowledge and skills gained across the CIEEM criteria described in the Personal Statement Guidance Document.
This is a full-time course.
You'll learn by a variety of teaching methods including lectures, tutorials, laboratory sessions, field trips and independent study, supported with information on the virtual learning environment, Moodle.
While the programme is predominantly based around face-to-face campus and field activity, we also use technology-enhanced learning.
We have a policy of mainstreaming reasonable adjustments which makes the most common adjustments offered to disabled students in teaching/assessment available routinely to everyone.
You will have a Professional Development Tutor: an academic closely involved with this programme who will help you to steer your individual development as you progress through the course.
As your interests and skills develop through the taught course, you will be able to design a final independent research project to suit your individual objectives.
The academic year is split into three trimesters with the taught modules running in the spring and autumn trimesters only.
September-starting students will follow this route:
Scientific Methods (ENV11109)
Humans and Wildlife (ENV11101)
Principles of Wildlife Management (ENV11116) and Case Studies in Applied Ecology (ENV11115) both 10 credit modules
Trimester 2 (Jan - April)
Man ag ement of Aquatic Protected Areas (ENV11112)
Biodiversity and Conservation (ENV11100)
Species Identification Skills (ENV11120) and Field Methods in Wildlife Biology and Conservation (ENV11119) both 10 credit modules
Project (ENV11117) (60 credits)
January-starting students will follow this route , which takes 16 months because there is no teaching in the summer (May-Aug) of the first year since the final Research Project module must be done after the taught modules.
This can be a useful period to gain additional work or voluntary experience during your MSc:
Jan-April
Management of Aquatic Protected Areas (ENV11112)
May-Aug
No teaching, but this period can be used to gain additional work or voluntary experience.
Sept-Dec
Principles of Wildlife Management (ENV11116)
and
Case Studies in Applied Ecology (ENV11115)
both 10 credit modules
Jan-Apr
Project (ENV11117)
(60 credits)
A link to the descriptor for each module can be found by using the module code to search on the Module Search .
Note that info on the learning, teaching and assessment strategy is revealed by clicking on the ‘View Full details’ link within each descriptor.
There are no traditional, end-of-module exams.
Instead, you will work on a variety of relevant professional tasks, both written and oral.
Assessments include a zoning document, biodiversity report and development proposal.
Taxonomic identification and statistical analysis are key skills which are assessed using practical tests.
In addition, you will produce several audio-visual presentations including a research proposal pitch.
We are based at the Sighthill Campus where we enjoy excellent well-equipped laboratory and IT facilities.
In addition, the good transport network around the city allows us to visit and study a range of terrestrial and aquatic habitats within easy reach of the campus.
Why should we conserve biodiversity?
Indeed, what is it?
This module looks at levels and patterns of biodiversity and how they are measured using estimators & indices.
You will use R to carry out biodiversity measurement and consider how to use such data to prioritise areas for protection.
You will study aspects of conservation biology such as speciation and extinction and debate the challenges around reintroduction programmes and conservation in the face of anthropogenic pressures on biodiversity.
The module will present 3 case studies within wildlife management and conservation.
Case-studies will be introduced with a lecture that gives the background to a conservation/management issue and the techniques that could be utilised to provide new information.
Each case-study will have computer practicals during which you will be presented with a dataset that is either from, similar to, or a subset from the appropriate case-study.
Guest lecturers will then speak to you about how that approach, and related approaches are used in real world contexts.
Case-studies will cover a range of management issues, and will be based on real scenarios that can be drawn from research experience of staff or drawn from the literature.
Indicative areas are: assessing the impacts of predator removal on nest success of birds, assessment of space use by marine species in designing marine protected areas, and using camera-trap surveying to identify protected mammal den sites.
Field Methods in Wildlife Biology and Conservation (on campus) builds upon the foundational knowledge and skills acquired in Species Identification Skills.
This module focuses on advanced techniques used in wildlife biology and conservation by studying diverse population monitoring and ecological sampling tools.
You will further develop practical skills in the field and lab settings, gaining hands-on experience with advanced research methods commonly employed in wildlife biology and conservation.
Topics include ecotourism, human-environment interactions, and environmental education.
Aspects of urban ecology, community engagement, and social research in conservation relate directly to the challenges of land management to benefit both human and the environment, which forms one of the assessments.
Agricultural ecology, and examples of human-wildlife conflict and protected area management around the world are also studied in relation to wildlife law and economics.
The module will cover the following topics: marine and freshwater protected area planning, legal and legislative frameworks for the designation of aquatic protected areas, assessing and managing water quantity and quality issues, aquatic-terrestrial linkages, landscape scale approaches and management at the catchment level, the DPSIR (Drivers-Pressures-State-Impacts-Responses) framework for analysis of environmental state and management, catchment management plans, coastal zone management, marine spatial planning, the ecosystem approach to aquatic resource management, including fisheries and sustainable use of aquatic protected areas.
You will also gain skills in the use and application of Geographical Information Systems (GIS) in the context of managing aquatic protected areas.
Disciplines covered initially include wildlife population dynamics and wildlife meta-populations.
Practical techniques covered in detail then include mammal and bird capture techniques, and sampling design in wildlife population monitoring.
We then discuss the foundation of more complex analytical techniques such as information theoretic modelling and maximum likelihood estimation in wildlife studies, and use of generalised linear modelling in wildlife studies.
In this module you will design and conduct an independent research project.
This may be a field or lab based study, a data analysis project or a piece of qualitative research (e.g.
questionnaires).
This involves design, development and implementation of a programme of research in a particular field of study relevant to your interests.
You will critically analyse data/information generated, and communicate the outcomes in a research paper, which will develop your skills in scientific writing.
You are encouraged to develop a project which meets your constraints in terms of location, funding and interests.
Projects can be undertaken independently (provided health and safety concerns are met) or in collaboration with organisations locally or around the world.As a full-time (FT) student, you will have one trimester to complete the module.
If you are a part-time or distance learning student (PT/DL), you will have 2 trimesters to complete.
In either case, you will first develop a project proposal and complete any necessary risk assessments and ethics approvals prior to getting under way with the actual project work.
If your project idea cannot be completed in the trimester when you are due to take this module e.g.
your focal species is not active at that time of year, you should consult staff as to possible options.
This module has three strands: philosophy and practice of science; statistical analysis and the use of R; an introduction to taxonomy and species ID.
Content will include the nature of the literature and scientific method including survey and experimental strategies and the need for replication and controls.
Working with people and qualitative research methods involve a different set of ethical and regulatory issues which will also be discussed.
Statistical and related methods for analysing and presenting data will be covered in the first half of the module together with taxonomic theory and field and lab sessions looking at a range of taxa.
This module is designed to provide you with foundational knowledge and practical experience in species identification, focusing on plants, terrestrial invertebrates, aquatic invertebrates, and birds.
The module emphasises the development of practical skills required for accurate species identification, both in the field and in the laboratory.
You will learn to recognise key species, understand their ecological significance, and gain proficiency in field and lab species identification.
What are the entry requirements for Wildlife Biology and Conservation ?
A Bachelor (Honours) Degree at 2:2 or above, preferably including some aspects of ecology/conservation/zoology/biology/environmental management/environmental science/countryside management/botany.
We will consider applicants with unrelated degrees, or related degrees at below 2:2, if you have related work/voluntary experience and your personal statement indicates efforts to gain the necessary ecological and analytical skills required to succeed, for example by taking short courses.
If you wish to apply but you do not have qualifications that meet the standard entry criteria above then you will need to follow the Personal Statement Guidance document (PDF) .
Be sure to construct your personal statement according to the format specified, to demonstrate what additional skills and knowledge you have developed.
By studying wildlife and conservation biology at Edinburgh Napier University, you will develop the practical.
technical and intellectual knowledge to be able to apply your skills within the field.
If you are interested in in conservation, wildlife and the environment, then this might be the right course for you.
You will be able to go onto work for a range of different organisations within different sectors, including Government agencies (e.g.
Nature Scot, Natural England, British Columbia Fish and Wildlife , Forestry and Land Scotland , US National Parks Service, Scottish Environment Protection Agency, Scottish Government, Defra , other national governments) · Non-governmental agencies and charities (e.g.
Royal Society for the Protection of Birds, Wildlife Trusts, Marine Conservation Society ), Private consultancies (e.g.
Jacobs, Atkins, Atmos, Echoes Ecology, RPS, LUC) and Worldwide research institutions including universities and research institutes (e.g.
Centre for Ecology and Hydrology ), showing that there are a wide range of opportunities available upon graduation.
You may be likely to work as an ecologist, ecological consultant, wildlife ranger, education officer, conservation project officer, wildlife technician, docotoral researcher, scientific adviser or a species licensing officer, as examples.
Our Alumni also visit regularly to share their work experience and advice with current students and have emphasised the importance of the skills gained from this course in their subsequent success.
In addition, by studying on a CIEEM accredited degree you will receive a free student membership of CIEEM which gives you additional access to resources, training, mentoring and networking that will help you to pursue a career in ecology or environmental management.
Below are just some of the roles you could go into with an MSc in Wildlife and Conservation biology.
As a conservation project officer, you will be responsible for implementing and overseeing conservation projects.
You will coordinate activities which are aimed at preserving wildlife and natural habitats, as well as ecosystems.
This may include carrying out habitat restoration, biodiversity conservation and sustainable resource management.
You will have strong problem solving and communication skills to work effectively within the field, and will be able to manage conservation plans, field surveys, and collaborate with government, local authorities and stakeholders.
As an ecological consultant, you will be responsible for advising on human activities and development, and how they interact and impact the environment.
You will aim to maintain sustainable development and environmental conservation through collaborative problem solving.
In this role, you will be expected to be an excellent communicator and team player.
You will likely work for the government, local authorities, environmental organisations or within the private sector.
As a biodiversity officer, you will be responsible for raising awareness of nature conservation and ensuring that regulations and legal requirements relating to biodiversity are adhered to within projects relating to infrastructure developments, for example.
You will develop strategies and conduct field surveys in order to promote sustainable practice, meaning strong teamworking and communication skills are required.
This is a dynamic role which requires fieldwork, office tasks and community engagement.
You will likely work with organisations such as the government, environmental agencies or the private sector.
Many of the types of roles that our graduates go into are listed on the Green Jobs for Nature website and this might give you and idea of the types of careers that you could pursue with your MSc Wildlife Biology & Conservation.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-wildlife-biology-and-conservation-postgraduate-parttime:
This is the first and only degree in Scotland to be accredited by the Chartered Institute of Ecology and Environmental Management (CIEEM).
Our graduates have gone on to work for environmental consultancies, government agencies, research institutions and independent wildlife organisations nationally and internationally.
Part-time (available as Full-time / Distance learning )
3-4 years
Studying the MSc Wildlife Biology and Conservation part-time has been amazing, from the best practically applied teaching to brilliant field trips in and around Edinburgh.
Susan Mackinnon
MSc Wildlife Biology & Conservation Student
In addition to studying relevant theory, you’ll have the opportunity to develop: advanced analytical skills for population quantification and management practical skills used in identifying, quantifying and assessing biodiversity transferable skills including communication, IT (GIS, R), problem solving, research and team working Our staff have years of experience working worldwide in wildlife conservation and consultancy and are keen to help you develop your potential.
Patrick White (bird and mammal ecology and conservation)
Jay Mackinnon (botany, environmental education, social research)
Jason Gilchrist (behavioural ecology and biodiversity)
Rob Briers (conservation planning, GIS and aquatic ecology)
Emilio Pagani-Núñez (field ecology , statistics )
Matt Wale (marine biology, experimental design)
Gavin Ballantyne (pollination ecology)
Jennifer Dodd (freshwater ecology and restoration)
The full-time and part-time programmes are accredited with the Chartered Institute of Ecology and Environmental Management (CIEEM) and consequently carry detailed entry expectations which are likely to be met if you have a science-based Bachelor (Honours) Degree at 2:2 or above, preferably including aspects of ecology/zoology/environmental management/environmental science/countryside management/botany.
If you do not meet the standard entry criteria, please consult the Personal Statement Guidance document (PDF) which includes the CIEEM criteria and be sure to construct your personal statement according to the format specified.
The course is studied part-time with attendance and takes up to 4 years to complete depending on the start date and study rate.
The programme seeks to allow you to study at a pace which fits with your other commitments.
View the part-time programme structure document (PDF) for more information.
As an example,  the route for standard part-time study rate with a September start would be as follows:
Project to be completed by December.
A link to the descriptor for each module can be found by using the module code to search on Module Search.
There are no traditional centrally timetabled exams.
Assessments include a zoning document, a biodiversity report and a development proposal.
Taxonomic identification and statistical analysis are key skills which are assessed using time limited supervised tests.
In addition, you will produce several audio-visual presentations including a research pitch.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-wildlife-biology-and-conservation-postgraduate-distance-learning:
This is a distance learning course, offering you the flexibility to learn at your own pace and place, possibly alongside a role in conservation or while balancing study with work or family life.
There is no requirement to come to Edinburgh during the course but, if you are able to, there are options to join us for field trips in Scotland to further develop your field skills and meet fellow students and course lecturers in person.
This distance-learning MSc has run for more than a decade and our graduates have gone on to work for environmental consultancies, government agencies, research institutions and independent wildlife organisations nationally and internationally.
For some, this MSc is the beginning of their conservation career and for others it is a route to promotion or PhD.
Typical entry points to this course are in September & January.
Distance learning (available as Full-time and Part-time )
"I used to work as executive manager for an international power utility company and decided to follow my real passion aged 46.
Two and a half years later I finished my distance-learning studies and was very surprised that I also received the class medal for my outstanding achievements.
I really enjoyed my time at Napier and am working now as Wildlife Biologist."
"Studying this MSc as a distance learner has allowed me to change my career into the sector I love, while working part time and raising my young family.
The university were very supportive, and I really felt part of the student community.
I was able to comfortably fit my studies around my family life, which was important to me, and I am now working as an ecologist for Severn Trent down here in the Midlands!"
The main focus is on the development of a range of knowledge and skills to equip you to work in this field.
The course is studied by distance learning using Moodle as the virtual learning environment for a range of online learning materials and activities including recorded lectures, asynchronous discussions, online quizzes, exercises for you to complete and guided reading.
Some modules encourage you to work in a small group (asynchronously if required).
You can study from anywhere in the world where you have a reliable internet connection.
You will be able to engage with the learning resources in your own time: there is no requirement to be available at set times although there will be opportunities to engage with staff and students live online for those who can and wish to.
You will interact with students who are studying the campus-based version of this programme; for example, in asynchronous online discussion forums on Moodle or by sending questions to be discussed in on-campus seminars which are then recorded and available to you online.
You will have a Professional Development Tutor: an academic closely involved with this programme who will help you to steer your individual development as you progress through the course and to access (remotely) the services of the wider university.
This might involve the analysis of existing datasets; collecting data in the field in your local area; collaboration with external organisations and/or travel for field/lab work, according to your objectives.
If you work in ecology/conservation, you might choose to integrate your research project with your work.
The programme is designed to allow you to study at a pace which fits with your other commitments.
For those in full-time employment the standard rate is 20 credits (typically one module) per trimester, which means that for a September start you would complete your taught modules in three years (120 credits = PGDip) and then move on to the research component, completing your project over two trimesters.
The project can begin in any trimester.
Note that if you are in the UK and interested in applying for a study loan with SAAS or SFE they will only support a maximum three-year study duration.
Our standard rate exceeds that and is therefore only suitable for those who are self-funding.
It is possible to complete within a shorter time by taking 30, 40 or 60 credits per trimester but this is not suitable for those with other full-time commitments.
View the flexible study rates document (PDF) for more information.
As an example, modules for the distance learning standard part-time study rate (20 credits per trimester) with a September start are as follows:
Year 1 Sept-Dec
Humans and Wildlife (ENV11101) Year 1 Jan – Apr
Management of Aquatic Protected Areas (ENV11112) Year 2 Sept-Dec
Scientific Methods (ENV11109) Year 2 Jan-Apr
Biodiversity and Conservation (ENV11100) Year 3 Sept-Dec
Principles of Wildlife Management(ENV11116) and Case Studies in Applied Ecology (ENV11115) (both 10 credit modules)
Year 3 Jan-Apr
Species Identification Skills (ENV11420) and Field Methods in Wildlife Biology and Conservation (ENV11419) (both 10 credit modules) Year 3 Apr-Dec
Assessments include a zoning document, a biodiversity report, a development proposal and recordings of audio-visual presentations including a research proposal pitch.
Taxonomic identification and statistical analysis are key skills which are assessed using time-limited online tests.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-pharmaceutical-and-analytical-science-postgraduate-fulltime:
This programme is primarily, but not exclusively, aimed at international students who have an interest in developing a career in the pharmaceutical sector.
It is designed to equip you with versatile skills in the theoretical understanding, practical execution and critical evaluation of pharmaceutical science principles.
You will develop expert critical and technical knowledge related to the development, analysis and production of medicines (pharmaceutics), the drug industry and regulatory affairs.
You will gain insight to contemporary, integrated drug discovery strategies, study recent trends in chemical and biological therapeutics and evaluate the latest technologies used in the pharmaceutical industry.
You will also study the interaction between drugs and the body (pharmacology) and explore key analytical and bioanalytical techniques used in therapeutic drug monitoring, with the opportunity for hands-on practical experience in a range of specialist instrumentation and techniques.
Typical entry point to this course is in January.
Please contact us with any questions by emailing Biomol-PLTeam@napier.ac.uk .
Jan
The comprehensive curriculum, coupled with exceptional faculty and peer support, helped me achieve my MSc with Distinction.
Anuradha Chaudhary
MSc Pharmaceutical & Analytical Science
Lectures were interactive with innovative teaching methodologies, making the learning process engaging.
The support provided by the school was instrumental.
Emmanuel Ogunjinmi
The faculty's expertise and collaborative environment fostered my growth and the emphasis on research and practical application equipped me with the skills and confidence for a successful career.
Amuktha Lekya Kasula
Support from classmates through tutorials, availability of online resources, and group study sessions were invaluable in helping me achieve a high grade and graduating with a distinction.
Roselyn Obekpa-Oloche
This programme provides the opportunity to acquire versatile skills in the theoretical understanding, practical execution and critical evaluation of Pharmaceutical Science principles to underpin your chosen professional careers.
In addition, a specific aim is to enhance your theoretical understanding and practical application of analytical science in pharmaceutical disciplines.
You’ll acquire broad knowledge in contemporary pharmaceutics and pharmacology and gain an in-depth critical understanding of current research in biotechnology and pharmaceutical science.
You’ll develop broad knowledge of current pharmaceutical analysis and quality control strategies and will learn about GMP and GLP compliance.
There is a strong focus on developing your analytical and practical laboratory skills with many opportunities for hands-on experience in a range of current techniques and practices including specialist equipment, for example, HPLC, UV/Vis, FTIR, microscopy, cell culture and flow cytometry.
You will have the opportunity to collect and analyse qualitative and quantitative data, and to interpret and evaluate data produced both in the laboratory and in silico .
In the final trimester you will undertake an independent project within a dedicated research team, allowing you to apply and further develop your practical, analytical and scientific research skills.
You will develop graduate attributes necessary for a successful career in the pharmaceutical sector, developing key skills including communication with other professional scientists and non-specialist audiences, organisational skills, problem-solving, review and synopsis, numeracy, statistical analysis and computing skills.
Timeline
This is a two-stage programme run over two years.
The first stage will allow you to develop key skills and an understanding of best practice around learning and assessment enabling you to be more effectively prepared to undertake the modules in the second stage of study which will further deepen your knowledge of the subject.
The first trimester of study on this programme will commence in January each year.
Stage 1: Trimester 1
3 Taught compulsory modules:
Stage 1: Trimester 2
Continuation of study requirements.
In order to progress from stage 1 to stage 2 you must pass all modules at stage 1 (pass rate 50%) and obtain 120 credits.
Stage 1 modules are not eligible for repeat module decisions.
Stage 2: Trimester 1
Stage 2: Trimester 2
To progress to the final research project module (60 credits) you must successfully complete 100 credits of your Stage 2 taught compulsory modules, which must include the Research Skills module.
If you complete a number of taught modules but are unable to progress due to insufficient credit or you have decided not to continue your studies for any other reason, you will be entitled to receive the following awards:
You will be awarded a Graduate Certificate in Pharmaceutical & Analytical Science on successful completion of 60 credits from Stage 1 at grade 9 or above.
You will be awarded a Postgraduate Diploma in Pharmaceutical & Analytical Science on successful completion of 120 credits from six Stage 2 modules.
On successful completion of 180 (Stage 2) credits at SCQF level 11 including a minimum of 60 credits achieved from the final research project, you will be awarded a Master’s degree in Pharmaceutical and Analytical Science.
.
Students will complete the programme in 27 months, over seven trimesters.
Four trimesters will comprise taught modules and a fifth will be devoted to your independent research project.
There is a one trimester break during the summer on both stage 1 and 2 and so you will have an opportunity to work during these breaks or may be required to engage with any reassessments if you have not passed a particular module.
This programme requires an intensive period of study, involving interactive lectures, workshops, tutorials and laboratory sessions, as well as guided independent study, supported by our virtual learning environment Moodle.
Guest lectures and site visits may also be arranged.
The Research Project (60 credits) in the final trimester offers you the opportunity to specialise in a particular area of research full-time in the laboratory.
Your assessments are carefully mapped out across your programme and designed to assess important knowledge, skills and aptitude.
Assessment will include formative work to help practice your skills and gain feedback from tutors, as well as summative work which will build on this preparatory work and count towards your award.
Assessments are carefully spaced out across each trimester and include various types such as practical exercises, lab reports, seminar and poster presentations, critical reviews, short discussions, class tests and exams.
Some of these assessments involve group-work, whilst others are carried out individually.
During the study of this module, you will be introduced to the basics of drug analysis and its main applications.
You will consider the challenges associated with the preparation of biological samples for pharmaceutical analysis.
You will gain understanding of an array of chemical separations, with an emphasis on gas and liquid chromatography, the main analytical techniques currently exploited in drug development.
This will feed into the detection of chemicals and their characterization via spectrometric and spectroscopic techniques, including mass spectrometry, UV – visible spectroscopy, NMR etc.
In parallel, you will develop skills in laboratory maths and statistics to determine whether scientific results are robust, allowing meaningful conclusions to be drawn.
You will acquire the skills necessary to establish meaningful connections between the spectral data and the molecular features of chemical of pharmaceutical interest.
This will enable you to collate a number of experimental pieces of information and formulate hypothesis on the molecular structures of chemicals of pharmaceutical interest.
Current topics in pharmaceutical and drug development research, current hot topics in pharmaceutical research, phases of clinical drug testing, regulation of medicines, formulation and manufacturing processes.
Introductory ethics and the history of “ethical” regulation and legal implications of being “unethical”.
Exploration of specific topics, e.g.
drug testing, when testing goes wrong, the use of animal models in drug development and testing.
This module seeks to develop your understanding of the basis of organic chemistry with a focus on small molecules.
After an introduction to the key concepts covering understanding of the reactions of organic compounds, including chemical bonds, valence, molecular orbitals and their interactions, you will become familiar with main functional groups (alkanes, alkenes, alkynes, alkyl halides, alcohols, aldehydes, ketones, amines, carboxylic acids, acyl derivatives along with nucleophiles and electrophiles and how to generate them for use in synthesis) in organic chemistry.
Additionally, the module provides skills to graphically represent these molecules in three dimensions and illustrate their reactions by using pieces of software routinely employed in pharmaceutical research and development.
These are acquired through hands-on experience in computer labs.
Building upon these concepts, fundamental properties, preparation, chemical reactivity, commercial significance, reactions, and characterisation of the main classes of molecules will be explored, with an emphasis on stoichiometry.
The module looks at the transformations of key functional groups in organic chemistry, followed by an introduction to equilibrium, acids and bases, the 1st, 2nd and 3rd laws of thermodynamics.A part of the module is devoted to tackle reaction mechanisms, introduce aromaticity and the main chemical reactions of benzene and study applications of organic chemistry.Chemical equilibrium will be unravelled, with an emphasis on dynamic equilibrium, the constants Kc and Kp., basic calculations, extent of reaction, solubility equilibria, pH and the main aspects of thermodynamics.
Practical hands-on laboratory activities are planned to enhance your understanding and awareness of the main classes of reaction e.g., acid-base and redox titrations, assays for identifications of functional groups and chemical classes etc.
This module enhances your understanding of the structure and function of key macromolecules, including the biological relevance and their role in the development of new therapeutics.
You will learn about the role of proteins, peptides, carbohydrates, nucleotides and lipids.
You will be exposed to the basic chemistry and reactivity of the main “building blocks” of macromolecules and this will build on your learning from the small molecules module.
The structure of these macromolecules with regards to their clinical implications, interaction with biological targets and stability will be discussed.
You will also learn about their role in disease and treatment.You will be provided with the skills for graphically representing these molecules using software routinely employed in drug discovery research during tutorials, demonstrations, and activities in PC labs.
Tools for predicting secondary structure of the main macromolecules will be presented and demonstrated.
You will get hands on experience in the lab with activities specifically designed to explore the different types of molecules to investigate their properties and function.
This module will build upon the pharmacokinetic principles of ADME (absorption, distribution, metabolism and elimination) and bioavailability (F) to allow you to appraise how different medicine design affects these parameters.The way different formulation additives, route of administration and release kinetics (immediate, sustained and targeted release) can impact not only on the pharmacokinetic profile of a drug, but also the doses and the dosing regimen used will be critically evaluated.
Factors influencing the rate and extent of drug absorption, which include food-drug interactions, will be explored.
The use of key analytical and bioanalytical techniques to assess drug concentration within the body and its application in therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) and dose adjustment will be critically reviewed and contextualized in the contemporary drug development process.
You will learn how to interpret different representations of data such as plasma concentration time curves and urinary drug excretion curves.
You will also gain a commercial awareness of medicine manufacture processes (e.g.
coatings) and the value of elements such as tablet size, colour and packaging.
The biologics market, where medicines are manufactured using recombinant DNA technology, will also be tackled.
In the labs you will learn about experimental design, preformulation tests such as Log P (Partition coefficient) determination and use of instrumental analytical techniques such as UV/VIS assays in preformulation testing.
In the labs you will also be required to maintain a Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) compliant lab book.
The aim of this?module?is to provide you with the skills to enable you to engage effectively with the MSc programme, and to develop the professional skills required to support future academic success and prepare you for the world of employment.?You will learn about the requirements of undertaking a programme of study at MSc level and how to engage with this effectively.
A range of technologies including MS Teams, WebEX and Moodle will be used to support teaching and communication and enhance your digital literacy skills.
To further enhance your digital confidence, you will be expected to use MS office tools to prepare assignments for submission and for analysis of data.
Professional values will be taught across a range of subjects with reference to standards and codes of practice such as the academic regulations, code of ethics and academic conduct regulations.
Scholarship skills including literature searching, use of referencing, and academic writing will be embedded throughout the module to develop your academic literacy.
Key employability skills including time management and reflective practices will be closely linked to assessment preparations and encouraging engagement.
A portfolio of evidence will be generated over the course of the module allowing you to evidence your acquisition of skills and the development of your practice.
The aim of this module is to develop your critical reading and writing skills, and supporting you to review evidence and synthesise complex ideas into a scientifically and professionally written report.
This module builds on the skills developed in trimester 1.
The module also aims to develop your knowledge of research methodology including understanding aspects of research design, creating proposals, and planning research.
You will further develop your analytical, problem solving and time management skills, and there will be an opportunity to develop your peer review and feedback skills in the preparation of your assessments.
You will be expected to contribute to class discussions, thus further developing your communication and team working skills, and to reflect on your skills development towards the end of the module.
You will develop an appreciation and understanding of solid dosage form manufacture carried out in industry and the quality control tests performed before a final dosage form reaches the market.
You will gain knowledge of the combination of ingredients that make up pharmaceutical and nutraceutical formulations (API & Excipients) and the different types of tests, required at different stages in order to comply with the high standards required by regulatory authorities such as the FDA and MHRA.
In the laboratories, you will gain hands-on analytical experience on industry-standard equipment including HPLC and UV instrumentation.
You will become familiar with different types of chromatography and learn how to operate, maintain and troubleshoot these techniques.
You will learn how to handle and prepare solid dosage forms for analysis by spectrophotometric and chromatographic analytical procedures and you will maintain GLP/GMP compliant lab books.
You will benefit from guest lectures and workshops from industry-based professionals from CMOs (contract manufacturing organisations) and CROs (contract research organisations) which will give you the insight necessary and preparation for work in the pharmaceutical, health, medical devices and food industry.
Formulated drug products (FDPs); Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs); and excipients which make up the formulation, binders, disintegrators, solubilizers, taste masking agents.
How choice of excipients determines parameters such as PK (pharmacokinetics) and route of administration of the medicine.
A range of batch release tests conducted by the industry defined by the appropriate Pharmacopeia?s; raw material testing, validation batch testing, assay of active content, degradation and stability studies, dissolution profile testing, uniformity of dosage units and physical characterisation.Instrumental analytical techniques including UV/Vis spectrophotometry, TLC, HPLC and Mass spectrometry.
Theoretical and practical knowledge of different types of chromatography.
Practical HPLC operation for analysis of pharmaceutical samples, maintenance and troubleshooting.
Mobile phase preparation, standards and sample preparation and API extraction for analysis.
Analysis and quantification of multi-component systems.
Knowledge of ICH guidelines and regulatory standards (such as MHRA) and processes for originator, generic and biopharmaceutical industries.Maintenance of a GLP compliant lab book and knowledge of GMP.
The aim of this module is to develop your scientific communication, data handling and interpretation skills and provide you with the key skills to undertake scientific investigations.
There?will be a focus on locating appropriate scientific sources,?developing effective reading strategies, and developing?critical reading and writing skills.
The difference?between being descriptive and critical, scientific and reflective writing styles, and how these are used in scientific publications and writing will be considered.
Data analysis, including how to organise, manage and present data as well as an introduction to statistical analysis will be taught, enabling you to become familiar with data analysis tools.
A key focus will be on the evaluation and synthesis?of scientific concepts from research articles into an oral presentation that will be presented to the class.
You will be expected to use and become familiar with MS Office packages including Word, PowerPoint and Excel for the analysis and presentation of your data.
What are the entry requirements for Pharmaceutical and Analytical Science?
The entry requirement for Stage 1 of this course is a Bachelor (Honours) Degree with a background in subjects such as biomedical sciences, chemistry, biochemistry, pharmacy, pharmacology, pharmaceutical or medicinal chemistry, microbiology and/or biotechnology at a 2:2 or above.
We may also consider other qualifications or experience which demonstrate through our recognition of prior learning process that you have appropriate knowledge and skills such as a degree-equivalent qualification in a relevant biomolecular discipline as per above, plus a minimum of two years relevant post-qualification work experience.
For students who may not meet the normal entry requirements, who wish to explore if they would be eligible for entry to the programme, contact BioMol-PLTeam@napier.ac.uk to seek advice on whether or not they should apply.
Can I get admission in Pharmaceutical and Analytical Science based on my working experience in this sector?
As all learning, teaching and assessment activities are conducted in English, if your first language is not English you must have a minimum International English Language Testing System score of 6.0 with all four elements having a score of at least 5.5
With a two-year Master’s degree in Pharmaceutical & Analytical Science, you can take advantage of the increased opportunities for advancement in the pharmaceutical, healthcare or bioscience sectors, as discovery or development scientists, in research leadership, development or management roles.
You may develop your career in global pharmaceutical companies, smaller developing biotechnology enterprises, contract drug testing companies or service providers to the pharmaceutical and healthcare industries, hospital laboratories, or in local government, or health and safety divisions in industry.
Successful completion of the programme also provides a sound platform for PhD study across the pharmaceutical and bio-molecular sciences, in worldwide academic and research institutions.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/study-with-us/postgraduate/fees-and-funding:
In this video, Ellen from our Student Recruitment team discusses the key areas about fees and funding, including course costs, payment methods, funding opportunities, our graduate discount and financial support.
You can also watch the BSL translation here .
Contact our advisers on 0333 900 6040 or use our online enquiry form

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/study-with-us/international-students/your-country/east-asia/china/chinese-student-life/ying-lei-testimonial:
Ying from China talks about her life at Edinburgh Napier University.
Edinburgh Napier University is not only going to teach you theory.
It also gives students practical skills for their future career.
My Future is my favourite part in the Edinburgh Napier support system.
It taught me how to write a professional CV and cover letter and I had the chance to experience an assessment centre (a common step in job application processes).
These opportunities are really helpful for improving employment skills.
That’s why I think Edinburgh Napier University is the best place to study and to develop a career.
During my summer holidays I got a chance to travel around the UK.
That’s how I figured out that Edinburgh is the city I want to study and live in.
I love Edinburgh’s architecture and the city is very relaxing.
Edinburgh gave me a great first impression with its historical buildings.
Some of my favourite parts of the city are the good traffic and the bus day ticket.
I still remember when I first came to Edinburgh for a few days, I bought a day ticket and I could travel across almost all of Edinburgh.
I was really excited and happy because I only needed to pay £3.60 and I could see so much of the city.
My course is Biomedical Science and I really enjoy doing laboratory work so my possible future careers are Laboratory Assistant or Research Assistant.
My goals are to achieve a First Class degree, do a summer internship in third year and to get a job after graduation.
Edinburgh Napier have a lot events about employment to help improve interview skills and completing job applications.
I have already attended a lot of events like this and they are very useful.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/our-schools/school-of-applied-sciences/case-studies/cieem:
The course, which combines the disciplines of wildlife biology and conservation biology, was designed in conjunction with employers and professional bodies and received recognition from the CIEEM for its main focus on developing practical employability.
Dr Patrick White,lecturer in Conservation Biology, explains how much the accreditation benefits the course and the students who choose to study at Edinburgh Napier: “It’s an acknowledgement of the course itself and its strong mix of theory, practical skills and focus on employability.
The accreditation criteria specifically required students do a minimum 15 days of practical work, but at almost 28 days across our course, we almost double that requirement.”
It’s an acknowledgement of the course itself and its strong mix of theory, practical skills and focus on employability.
Dr Patrick White
Lecturer in Conservation Biology
“Graduating with a CIEEM accredited degree means a simpler process of applying for GradCIEEM membership, and CIEEM membership is desirable or essential criteria for many graduate jobs in the ecology and environmental sector,” says Dr White.
“It ensures close links between the course and CIEEM so that as the discipline/industry evolves, and employers require new skills from graduates, the course can evolve to meet those requirements.”

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/study-with-us/international-students/your-country/europe-and-eurasia/spain/zaragoza:
Carmen from Spain talks about her time studying at Edinburgh Napier University.
Can you tell us about what you’re currently doing?
I am currently studying for an MSc Degree in Immunology at Imperial College London.
How does this build on your undergraduate experience at Edinburgh Napier University?
I graduated from the BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science in 2018 and was immediately successful in gaining a place on the MSc in Immunology at Imperial.
Within a couple of weeks, I saw how well the Immunology modules in third and fourth year had prepared me, especially in immunology, and this put me in a very good position for the MSc.
The modules by Dr Eva Malone gave a very strong and in-depth immunological background, which has made my life so much easier than it might have been!
What did you like about Edinburgh Napier University?
I went to school in Spain, and when I came to apply for undergraduate courses there were very few options in Biomedical Studies there.
The UK appealed, and Edinburgh Napier stood out for the way the course was set up and the modules I would study.
It was also a fantastic city to live in for three years!
(I was a direct entry into year 2.)
The lecturers at Edinburgh Napier were all really good, and compared to the other UK students on our MSc group I had good notes and slides to help me settle into the Masters material.
The course at ICL is six months taught and six months research focused, and I’m just beginning my research now.
I learnt how to write good abstracts from my time at Edinburgh Napier, and the grounding I got in critical thinking has been very helpful, as was the practical lab experience and even the approach to essay writing.
I’ve felt very well prepared.
Take advantage of the opportunities that are available to you.
It’s a very supportive environment and the teaching at Edinburgh Napier is excellent and can put you in a great position for the next step after graduation.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/research-search/school-research/school-of-applied-sciences:
Congratulations to Dr Roberto Kulpa and Dr Adrianna Zabrzewska, who are part of this year's Edinburgh FRINGE 2025!
19 May 2025
Dr Roberto Kulpa has been nominated as the Jury Member for this year's iteration of the global phenomenon in research communication: 3MT - 3 Minute Thesis Competition, organised in the UK by Vitea.ac....
7 May 2025
Dr Roberto Kulpa spoke on the popular Polish Radio Nowy Świat about the findings of the RESIST Project, and broader about the role of gender, sexuality, and 'anti-gender' politics in Poland and Europe...
9 April 2025
The Marine Alliance for Science and Technology for Scotland (MASTS) has secured funding for this initiative.
The SharkScape project will focus on sharks and skates around Scotland, explor...
7 January 2025
Headline: Europe-wide research reveals how transgender rights, feminism, and LGBTIQ+ advocacy are systematically attacked in politics and media.
Lead: A project researching so-called ‘ant...
10 April 2024
Trail therapy, also known as nature therapy or ecotherapy, is a therapeutic approach that involves outdoor activities in natural settings to promote mental, emotional, and physical well-being.
This fo...
8 January 2024
The talk reflected on the epistemic b/orders in collaborative knowledge creation in queer studies, as critical discipline pursued within the  neoliberal higher education system.
8 September 2023
DMBinS Mountain Bike Health Programme Manager Dr.
Christine Fox chats to Lauren Laverne live on BBC 6 Music about the Trail Therapy Evaluation
19 August 2023
New research reveals the unique mental health benefits of riding trails
15 August 2023
Dr Kulpa spoke about "Post-Enlightenment: Can We Go Beyond Occidentalist Epistemologies and Geo-Politics in Queer Studies?" as part of the "Go West!
Conceptual Explorations of “The West” in History of...
15 December 2022
Dr Roberto Kulpa with colleagues form 9 European organisations launches “Fostering Queer Feminist Intersectional Resistances against Transnational Anti-Gender Politics (RESIST)” research consortium ai...
1 October 2022
Dr Kulpa spoke about "Thinking About the Geo-politics of Knowledge Production: Non-anglophone Epistemologies in/of Queer Studies" at Leibniz-Institut für Geschichte und Kultur des östlichen Europa (GW...
1 June 2022
The talk reflected on the contemporary queer studies and the geo-temporal ‘unsettlement’ of Central and Eastern Europe in the occidental (and occidentalist) imaginary.
1 December 2021
Three-minute videos were pre-recorded by up to 6 voluntary researchers within the School of Applied Sciences (this will include PhD students, lecturers, researchers with priority given to COVID-19 bas...
17 June 2021
Dr Donnellan was contacted and interviewed by a journalist about her work in COVID-19 drug discovery.
The journalist was particularly interested in how to get girls and women more involved in science...
2 April 2021
Dr Tom Campbell was interviewed on ITV borders news to talk about the signing of the borderlands deal and the Mountain Bike Innovation Centre to be located in Innerleithen.
18 March 2021
It has been just over a year since the first cases of Covid-19 were confirmed in the UK, with over 2.5 million deaths worldwide at the time of writing.
The turmoil, disruption, havoc and devastation t...
9 March 2021
Research undertaken by Edinburgh Napier university, as part of an Erasmus+ project, has identified the skill gaps that exist within the mountain bike trail building sector and the prioritisation of tr...
11 September 2020
Hearts and Hibs have teamed up with Edinburgh Napier University to give development squad players a chance to combine traditional studying with their football commitments.
10 September 2020
Dr Lesley Ingram-Sills was interviewed on the program : In search of the competitive edge.
During this interview Lesley discussed the impact of technology on performance improvement in sport, what th...
26 February 2020
A research project lead by Dr Patrick White in the School of Applied Sciences, in collaboration with colleagues at Scotland's Rural College and the Royal Botanic Gardens at Kew made the front page of ...
18 March 2019
Mark has cycled around the world twice, smashing the circumnavigation World Record on both occasions.
His most recent attempt captured the imagination of a global audience by targeting Jules Verne’s A...
24 October 2018
On October 6th, 2018 The Podyum hosted an American Football camp at Edinburgh Napier University.
Athletes got the opportunity to learn and compete in front of coaches who came from different parts of ...
29 September 2018
Dr Lesley Ingram will cycle 240 miles for STV children's appeal
11 September 2018
On the 22nd of September Lesley will join 79 others riders to raise money for the STV children's charity appeal.
The Stand Comedy Club
16 North St Andrews Street, Edinburgh , EH2 1HJ
tel.: 0131 558 9005
1 August 2025
Date: Monday, March 3, 2025;  9:30–16:30 CET (Warsaw time); Online & In-person: Institute of Philosophy and Sociology, Polish Academy of Sciences, Staszic Palace (Pałac Staszica), Nowy Świat 72, 00-330 Warsaw, Poland 

Registration link (for both online and in-person participation): Click here 
https://events.teams.microsoft.com/event/253ecaa8-ddf1-45bc-a765-f82099fcc299@99e0dc58-9c4b-4820-8617-04c386c254c6 

Agenda (PL time zone)

09:30–10:00
Arrival, coffee, informal networking

10:00–11:00
Presentation of RESIST Project Findings from the Case Studies in Poland and Belarus.
Panel discussion (hybrid, online transmission).
The RESIST team members will introduce the project and speak about the effects of, and resistances against “anti-gender” politics in Belarus and Poland in 15-minute presentations followed by a Q&A.
Adrianna Zabrzewska (RESIST Project, Edinburgh Napier University), Understanding ‘Anti-gender’ Politics Across Europe: An Overview of the RESIST Project.
Ekaterina Filep (RESIST Project, Université de Fribourg), Lived Experiences and Resistances to the ‘Anti-gender’ Mobilisations in Belarus.
Roberto Kulpa (RESIST Project, Edinburgh Napier University), Lived Experiences and Resistances to the ‘Anti-gender’ Mobilisations in Poland.
11:00–11:15
COFFEE BREAK

11:15–12:30
Feedback session and idea exchange workshop.
This workshop (in-person only) aims to facilitate engagement with the project findings and share insights.
We invite everyone to reflect on the following questions:

How do “anti-gender” politics manifest differently in  Ukraine, Poland, Belarus, and Russia and what factors contribute to these variations?
In what ways do queer-feminist movements in these countries collaborate or support one another?
What barriers (both external  and internal) do they encounter in building solidarity?
What role does intersectionality play in shaping the experiences of individuals affected by “anti-gender” politics in Poland, Belarus, Ukraine, and Russia?
12:30–13:45
LUNCH BREAK

13:45–15:00
Gender, Sexuality, Migration: Intersectional Identities, Competing Priorities, and Queer-Feminist Resistances Against “Anti-Gender” Politics.
In this session, our guest speakers will deliver 15-minute presentations on their respective research, followed by Q&A.
Chaired by Dorota Hall, IFiS PAN.
Olga Sasunkevich (University of Gothenburg), The frames of war: state-led homophobia in Russia and the war against Ukraine and the West in the context of transnational anti-gender mobilisation.
Olga Plakhotnik (University of Greifswald), Maria Mayerchyk (Rhine-Waal University), Between “Gender” and “Anti-Gender”: (Trans) Necropolitics at the Buffer Periphery.
Sarian Jarski (Migration Consortium/ Queer Without Borders), ‘Queer’ and at the ‘green border’: LGBTQI+ displacement and intersectional solidarity at Polish borders with Belarus and Ukraine after 2021.
15:00–15:20
COFFEE BREAK

15:20–16:30
Anti-Gender Violence across Migration Routes.
Personal Experiences, Theoretical Approaches, Academic Trials and Tribulations.
Experience-sharing session (in-person only).
In this session, we invite all in-person attendees to reflect on the questions below.
Moderated by: Anna Cze Czerwińska HerStory Archivist and Independent Expert.
How do experiences of “anti-gender” violence differ among individuals navigating various migration routes?
What coping mechanisms and strategies of resistance are employed?
How does the experience of migration impact one’s academic and/or activist engagements?
Do queer-feminist scholars in these four national contexts experience the limitation of academic freedoms due to “anti-gender” mobilizations?
In what ways?
How can theories of post-colonialism and peripheralization be applied to understand the unique challenges faced by queer-feminist movements in Ukraine, Poland, Belarus, and Russia and across these national contexts?
Reminder: Please note that both in-person and online attendees need to register for the event by following this link.
We will not be able to admit unregistered participants.
Presentation Abstracts:
Olga Sasunkevich
The frames of war: state-led homophobia in Russia and the war against Ukraine and the West in the context of transnational anti-gender mobilisation
This presentation is based on a forthcoming book chapter that analyses how state-led homophobia in Russia served as a discursive framing of country’s decision to launch the full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022.
The argument is built on theoretical concepts of (un)grievable life and queer necropolitics to illuminate how questions of gender equality and sexual rights increasingly become the question of life and death in the contemporary geopolitical climate.
Applied to the Russian context, these concepts reveal the potential of state-led homophobia to incite affective violence and economies of hate.
The presentation analyses Russia’s case at the transnational background of anti-gender mobilization where struggles around gender and sexuality become a central field of contestation in contemporary (geo)politics.
Thus, the cruelty of Russia in relation to “ungrievable” segments of its own population and the citizens of Ukraine should be seen as a warning suggesting that the boundary between symbolic and outright violence of anti-gender mobilization is fragile.
Olga Plakhotnik and Maria Mayerchyk
Between “Gender” and “Anti-Gender”: (Trans) Necropolitics at the Buffer Periphery
We use the concept of necropolitics (Mbembe 2003) in two dimensions.
First, we zoom in on the situation of transgender people in Ukraine.
On the one hand, they are vulnerable to transphobic hatred fuelled by transnational “anti-gender” movements.
On the other hand, opposing “anti-gender” discourse, feminist activists and academics might rely on the grammar of binary gender, thus producing overt or covert transphobia.
In addition to many levels of human insecurity caused by the full-scale Russian war on Ukraine, the condition of martial law and militarization of feminist and LGBT+ activisms in Ukraine practically delegitimize transgender lives.
In the second part, we employ the analytics of the “buffer periphery” to decipher how “progressive” gender and sexual politics are being instrumentalized in the context of EU- and NATO aspirations of the Ukrainian state and Western financial and military aid.
Zooming out to a global scale, we apply the concept of necropolitics to examine how both Western and Russian imperial powers project the Ukrainian population as marked by colonial difference, and what queer feminist responses to this projection might look like.
Sarian Jarosz
‘Queer’ and at the ‘green border’.
LGBTQI+ displacement and intersectional solidarity at Polish borders with Belarus and Ukraine after 2021
The sudden intensification of mobility on Poland's eastern borders - first in 2021 on the border with Belarus, then in 2022 on the border with Ukraine - has forced Polish informal border solidarity infrastructures to develop ad hoc intersectional response to LGBTQI+ displacement.
Based on the framework of engaged ethnography and the in-depth work of the cross-border research collective Queer Without Borders, I aim to present the different forms of queer humanitarianism and risks of its criminalization during humanitarian crises after 2021.
This analysis exposes how both the experience of minority stress and state criminalization of queer/border solidarity in Poland in 2017-2023, shapes the methods and data collection regarding LGBTQI+ individuals on the move, conducted by the informal border activists at both Polish borders (Guyan 2022; Sandberg 2018).
The emphasis is on testimonies of those engaged in queer migration research or humanitarian and legal data collection, who directly apply such data into cross-border work in Poland and Ukraine (Queer Without Borders 2022).
Participant bios:
Anna Cze Czerwińska is a longstanding feminist activist, past member of the Manifa 8go Marca, OŚKa, co-founder of Feminoteka and STER.
She is a leading expert and organiser of herstory archives of Polish activist women in politics.
Dorota Hall is an Assoc.
Prof.
at the Institute of Philosophy and Sociology, Polish Academy of Sciences, interested in religion, new spiritualities, gender, sexualities, minoritization and various forms of marginalization.
She was a member of expert networks, such as the Network of Socio-economic Experts in the Anti-discrimination Field (SEN) established by the European Commission.
Sarian Jarosz is a Research Coordinator at Migration Consortium, Humanitarian LGBTQI+ Advisor at Save the Children Poland and co-founder of Queer Without Borders, non-formal coalition of organizations assisting LGBTQI+ refugees in Poland.
With Save the Children and Plan International he published two reports on humanitarian response to LGBTQI+ displacement in Poland.
Formerly Investigator on LGBTQI+ rights and migration at Amnesty International Poland.
His focus is on criminalization of LGBTQI+ solidarity after 2017, research conducted in Poland, Belarus, Russia and Uganda.
Maria Mayerchyk is a Deputy Professor at the Rhine-Waal University of Applied Sciences and, together with Olga Plakhotnik, a joint editor-in-chief of Feminist Critique: East European Journal of Feminist and Queer Studies.
Maria’s research interests include a decolonial perspective on gender, sexuality and body, queer and feminist movements and epistemologies of Eastern Europe, diaspora and migration studies, and folklore.
Olga Plakhotnik is a Chair for Ukrainian Cultural Studies at the University of Greifswald and a PI of the project "(Un)Disciplined: Pluralizing Ukrainian Studies—Understanding the War in Ukraine” .
As a scholar-activist and educator, Olga works in the area of feminist/queer epistemologies, critical citizenship studies, and feminist/queer pedagogies.
Volha/Olga Sasunkevich is an Associate Professor in Gender Studies at the University of Gothenburg.
She is a PI for EU Horizon Project MAGnituDe.
Migration, Affective Geopolitics and European Democracy in Times of Military Conflicts and Research School FUDEM – Future of Democracy: Cultural Analyses of Illiberal Populism in Times of Crises.
Olga's research interests revolve around the questions of gender, sexuality, migration and ethnicity in Eastern Europe.
RESIST Project Team Members:

Katya Filep (Université de Fribourg) is a social geographer specialising in gender, with a regional focus on Central Asia and Eastern Europe.
She has a professional background in research, project management, translation and interpreting.
Katya coordinates the RESIST Project's case study of Belarus and Hungary.
Roberto Kulpa (Edinburgh Napier University) is a social scientist interested in transnational sexual politics, especially dynamics between Central-Eastern Europe and ‘the West’, as well as in critical epistemologies.
He coordinates the RESIST Project’s case study on Poland and leads on Stage 5: Communication and Dissemination.
Adrianna Zabrzewska  (Edinburgh Napier University) is a feminist philosopher and co-editor of Gender, Voice, and Violence in Poland (2021).
Adrianna combines a professional background in content marketing with interdisciplinary research expertise to implement RESIST’s impact plan and contribute to the case study on Poland.
3 March 2025
Centre for Arts, Media, & Culture, Edinburgh Napier University, Edinburgh, UK
8 March 2023
1 February 2022 - 31 July 2022
Strathclyde University
6 May 2021
Edinburgh Napier University (Sighthill Campus)
4 December 2019
Edinburgh Napier University, Sighthill Campus
2 December 2019
27 November 2019
13 November 2019
6 November 2019
30 October 2019
28 October 2019
16 October 2019
10 October 2019
25 September 2019
23 September 2019
28 August 2019
18 June 2019
10 June 2019
4 June 2019
1 May 2019
3 April 2019
The Environment Agency Office
King’s Meadow House
King's Meadow Road
Reading
RG1 8DQ
22 March 2019
20 March 2019

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bscbsc-hons-architectural-technology-undergraduate-fulltime:
One of only two of its kind in Scotland, Edinburgh Napier University’s accredited architectural technology course will teach you the skills required for a successful career in the industry, including the fundamentals in building design requirements from development through to completion.
You will learn key skills in areas of design and development so that you are proficient in advising on and working with innovative architecture technology.
This course will help you gain a creative attitude and be skilled in detailing to design, using both graphic and computer-aided drafting techniques.
With an architectural technology degree, you can work alongside architects and engineers to transform large-scale concepts into reality.
This course is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Architectural Technologists (CIAT) and host the CIAT Centre of Excellence, and is also accredited by the Chartered Institute of Building (CIOB).
K236
“The theory I was taught at Edinburgh Napier is incredibly relevant to the work I’m doing now.”
00:39
If you are a creative person who enjoys drawing and design, mixed with problem solving and IT skills, then architectural technology is the course for you.
Edinburgh Napier's undergraduate degree in Architectural Technology covers a range of modules that will help you develop your hand-sketching skills, working with specialist software for modelling using computer-aided design.
You’ll also get access to exciting equipment including laser scanners, drones and virtual reality kits to bring your ideas to life.
Throughout your studies, you will be able to enhance your team working and project management skills through interdisciplinary design projects working with other construction and surveying students.
This course connects you with practitioners through our strong links with the industry.
We offer our students the opportunity to apply their learning to real projects through external visits to iconic buildings and construction sites.
You will be attending lectures and tutorials as a part of this programme.
The timetable and attendance may vary based on the course you will be studying and the modules that you will have.
Please get in touch with us to know more about the timetable and attendance.
Please note: This course is offered in person only and can not be studied online or as distance learning.
3:02
What are the entry requirements for Architectural Technologies?
Advanced entry into Year 2, Year 3 or Year 4 of this course is possible for students with suitable qualifications.
NPA - National Progression Award (32-99) in Global Infrastructure and the Built Environment equivalent to 1 Higher at grade C.
Can not be used for subject specific requirement.
A level
BTEC National Extended Diploma (Level 3)
BTEC National Diploma (Level 3)
BTEC Extended Diploma Level 3
Irish Ordinary Degree
Architectural technology is an innovative and creative course underpinned by science and technology.
If you are inquisitive and have an interest in architecture, then this would be a perfect choice for you.
Other essential skills include planning and organising, leadership and communication.
School subjects you should consider if you are looking to study architectural technology include; English, Design Technology, IT, Maths and Science.
At Edinburgh Napier University, we have strong connections with colleges which allows for advanced entry into second and third year if you have the right qualifications and experience.
To study architectural technology means specializing in the design stages while reinforcing that with an active understanding of building science, engineering and technology.
A degree in Architectural Technology opens up many different career routes to choose from.
Most graduates progress their career as architectural technologists.
This degree also opens up many different career routes to choose from.
You could find yourself working:
If you prefer a more hands-on career option then working as an architectural technician might suit you, it is a popular career route that allows you to work with house builders for example.
The skills you develop throughout your studies will also allow you to gain transferable skills which you can apply to career routes in areas such as work as an Acoustic Engineer, Technical Sales Advisor or Software Developer.
A chartered architectural technologist transforms design into reality.
Their specialism is in the technology of architecture, with the aim to ensure that the design of buildings is fit for purpose and performance.
Not to be confused with an architect, architectural technologists work on more than just the concept planning and design development stages.
A career in this field allows you to work alongside professionals and clients in different fields to look after all aspects of a building project from start to finish.
Different from an architect, chartered architectural technologists’ work will not only include concept planning and design development, but they also specialize in design underpinned by building science, engineering and technology.
They can get involved in designing and managing all project types from small scale to large commercial, industrial, residential and public projects.
They collaborate with other professionals and clients to oversee all aspects of a building project from conception to completion.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bscbsc-hons-architectural-technology-undergraduate-parttime:
An architectural technologist is a specialist in the technological aspects of building design and construction, bridging the gap between design theory and construction practice.
This course will teach you the skills required for a successful career in industry, including the fundamentals in building design requirements from development through to completion.
You will learn key skills in areas of design and development so that you are proficient in advising on appropriate technology.
On completion of this course, you will gain a creative attitude and be skilled in detailing to design, using both graphic and computer-aided drafting techniques.
The part-time route of the programme is delivered over 6 years.
We try to do the part-time route on a day-release basis where possible (a full day, 6-8 hours a week) but this will depend on the modules the student is doing and timetabling.
The days may also vary from one level to another.
5:34
What are the entry requirements for Architectural Technology?
For further information see
our entry
requirements and admissions policies .
Minimum Year 4

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-architectural-technology--sustainable-building-performance-postgraduate-fulltime:
Build on your existing qualifications or experience in this area to develop a good knowledge of architectural technology, building performance and the legislative framework that governs the industry.
The course offers a well-balanced blend of theory and practice informed by our links with industry that prepares you for the workplace.
Through the taught modules you will gain a broad understanding of architectural technology and building performance.
This programme is recognised by the Chartered Institute of Architectural Technologists ( CIAT ) and will count towards the Membership of CIAT .
The entry point to this course is in September.
This course is built around the knowledge and current applied research of four of the University’s key research centres that sit within the Institute for Sustainable Construction:
All modules are worth 20 credits unless stated otherwise.
Trimester 1:
Duration: 12 months
This full-time course starts in September and is spread over three trimesters lasting 12 months.
Architectural Design & Technology is a design-led module that challenges students to engage with a comprehensive architectural project, emphasizing conceptual innovation, aesthetic refinement, and the practical integration of technology and sustainability.
Students will develop proposals individually or collaboratively (subject to yearly cohort planning), responding to a client’s design brief.
Projects will focus on the integration of architectural design with Modern Methods of Construction (MMC), environmental performance, and visual coherence.
A key aim is to support the UK’s zero-emission targets by addressing energy efficiency and sustainable design strategies throughout the project.By the end of the module, students will be equipped to contribute meaningfully to a more sustainable built environment through innovative and practical design approaches.
This module is to educate the architectural technology students on the importance to include acoustic aspects into design.
The module covers the room acoustics, including reverberation and absorption, room-to-room sound insulation and isolation, noise break-out and break into the building itself, effect of environmental noise on the proposed design of the future building.
This module covers various aspects related to acoustic design, development, on-site errors and completion testing.
Different types of constructions (timber, CLT, masonry and steel) are reviewed in detail for flanking and sound insulation.
The module also provides the overview of main building standards and guidance’s for domestic and non-domestic buildings (schools, sport centres, hospitals, hotels, cinemas etc).
Site visit or building visit as well as auralisation chamber visit at ENU are included into the scope of study.
Building Energy Performance (BSV11153) covers key aspects of building thermal performance, focusing on heat loss and energy-efficient construction.
It explores sustainabledesign strategies, including the use of software tools for designing energy-efficient buildings, SAP/SBEM compliance, energy performance certification, and simulation.
The module also examines the integration of low and zero-carbon technologies (LZCT) into buildings and the concept of zero-carbon buildings.
Additionally, it covers testing building performance targets through methods such as airtightness testing, thermography, etc.
The module focus on the significance of digitisation and information management in the built environment.
It encompasses a broad spectrum of topics about the creation, extraction and management of digital data throughout various stages of construction, starting from site analysis and extending to modelling design, structural systems, material options, and modern construction processes.Within this module, you gain a comprehensive understanding of how digital technologies and tools can enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of architectural projects.
You learn about the process of capturing and analysing site data using advanced digital surveying techniques and how digital modelling software can be utilised to develop designs and detail drawings.
Additionally, you will become familiar with the integration of digital data across various disciplines involved in the construction process.
You learn and evaluate how different professionals, including architects, engineers and contractors can collaborate seamlessly through BIM platforms.
The Dissertation module constitutes a substantial piece of independent work executed within the traditions of scholarship and research characteristic of a particular discipline.
Students will learn various research skills which they will then apply to their own chosen research, including developing a research proposal, conducting literature reviews, research methodology, designing a research strategy, data gathering, data presentation, data analysis, and writing up of the dissertation.
The choice of a dissertation topic is left to individual students and as long as the proposal can be developed into a dissertation, students shall be allowed to proceed.
Each student is allocated a dedicated supervisor to guide the student in the various stages of the research.
This module examines the evolution and adaptation of the UK’s historic building stock, beginning with an analysis of archetypes, ages, and characteristic features—flooring, walls, and roof systems—found in traditional domestic and commercial structures.
Students will explore the properties, limitations, and long-term behaviour of vernacular materials (such as lime mortar, timber framing, and natural stone) alongside the methods by which they were originally assembled.Building on this foundation, the course then addresses sustainable retrofit: surveying relevant UK standards and performance metrics, introducing best-practice techniques, and reviewing case studies of successful interventions and material innovations.
Attention is paid to social factors influencing retrofit decisions, as well as the integration of traditional services—ventilation, heating, and cooling—into upgraded heritage buildings.
By marrying historical understanding with contemporary sustainability goals, learners will be equipped to design sensitive, effective retrofit strategies for the UK’s aging built environment.
In this module, students will learn to understand the fundamental principles, strategies, and real-world applications of sustainable design within the built environment.
The module provide you with integrated perspective on sustainability, focusing on its environmental, social, and economic dimensions as they relate to buildings, infrastructure, and urban systems.
Through case studies, practical tasks, and critical analysis, students will develop the skills to evaluate and apply sustainable design approaches that address current and future challenges in the construction and development sectors.
NORR is one of our industry partners for this programme.
NORR is a fully integrated design firm with a professional team of 800 architects, engineers, planners and interior designers who work collaboratively across 12 market sectors from offices located in Canada, the US, UK and UAE.
Their mission is to create socially aware, environmentally responsible, and financially viable solutions that contribute to healthier and sustainable spaces and places.
They believe in a shared vision of the United Nations Sustainability Development Goals to strengthen common objectives across the globe.
Carbon Futures is one of our industry partners for this programme.
Carbon Futures are a team of energy and sustainability consultants operating throughout the UK tackling the Climate Emergency.
They carry out energy modelling and produce detailed analysis on building performance to inform design and support the delivery of projects across the built environment from concept stage masterplanning through to construction and completion.
By working closely with clients and design team partners, Carbon Futures produce sustainable, energy efficient strategies that aim to exceed industry standards and improve the energy performance of buildings throughout the country.
They have extensive experience of supporting a wide range of developments across residential, education and commercial sectors and deploy expert knowledge to provide detailed analysis and support throughout the lifecycle of projects.
We are looking for an academic background in Architecture or Architectural Technology (RIBA Part 1 accredited).
We may also consider lesser qualifications if you have sufficient relevant work experience within the industry.
If you apply with less than an Honours degree, our Admissions Team will review your application and let you know whether a portfolio is also required.
Can I get admission into Architectural Technology and Building Performance based on my working experience in this sector?
The MSc Architectural Technology & Sustainable Building Performance course offers in-depth knowledge and expertise in architectural technology and sustainable building practices, which are increasingly important in the construction industry.
This specialization can help you to build a career in the following roles:
You will acquire practical skills and experience that are directly applicable to the field of architecture, architectural technology and building performance.
Employers value candidates who possess hands-on skills and are equipped to tackle real-world challenges.
You will acquire an understanding of construction methods, materials, and technologies with a focus on sustainable and innovative practices.
You will also gain skills in building simulations to effectively design buildings from inception to completion.
So, this course can provide you with the knowledge, skills, and opportunities needed to excel in a rewarding and impactful career in architecture, architectural technology and sustainable construction.
As a architectural technologist, you would specialize in designing buildings that minimize environmental impact, optimize energy efficiency, and incorporate sustainable materials and technologies.
You may typically begin the day by reviewing project requirements, and researching sustainable design strategies, materials, and technologies applicable to the project's context.
You may also have to conduct site visits during the construction phase to monitor progress, ensure compliance with sustainable design specifications, and address any issues that arise related to sustainability or environmental performance.
You should also keep yourself updated on the latest trends, innovations, and best practices in sustainable design through continuing education, professional development workshops, and industry conferences.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-architectural-technology--sustainable-building-performance-postgraduate-parttime:
Through the taught modules you will gain a broad understanding of the architectural technology and learn how to apply this knowledge through the Masters Design Project to create and evaluate design solutions.
The Masters Programme is recognised by the Chartered Institute of Architectural Technologists ( CIAT ) and will count towards Membership of CIAT .
You will gain the knowledge and experience required in the 6 taught modules that can then be applied to complete a major design project that should enhance your career prospects.
YEAR 1
YEAR 2

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-building-surveying-undergraduate-fulltime:
Edinburgh Napier’s Building Surveying course is industry focused and  contains many practical applications including trips and excursions relating to various modules.
The academic experience plus the practical skills gained during the course, will equip you with the tools required for the workplace.
All academic staff within the surveying subject group are Chartered Surveyors themselves with professional practice experience, which allows for academic and professional skills transfer to students.
These skills are essential when advising clients on residential and commercial building activities.
There is a credit-bearing work placement module in third year which allows you to apply the knowledge learned in the classroom to live projects under professional supervision.
The honours course is fully accredited by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) and you will be eligible for Chartered Surveyor status once you have gained suitable experience after graduating and met the competency requirements of the RICS.
K231
Trevor Power BSc (Hons) Building Surveying alumni
During your studies, you will develop knowledge in design economics, property inspection methods, building conservation and estimating, life cycle costing, building measurement and building maintenance management.
In year one you will learn the technical and legal aspects of Building Surveying along with an understanding of the costs and economics of construction and of property markets and property management.
You will also learn how to diagnose building faults, undertake inspections, and apply construction technology principles when advising on preventative or remedial solutions.
In your second year you will progress on to develop an in-depth knowledge of building construction and technology, an introduction to computer aided design (CAAD), and an understanding of and develop and awareness of building control and fire engineering, maintenance.
Year three will be a credit bearing work placement module.
In fourth year, you will apply your skills in a multi-disciplinary project, work on your dissertation as well as gaining enhanced skills in areas of building pathology identifying appropriate strategies to remedy these defects.
You will also be taught about building conservation.
By the end of your studies, you will gain knowledge of contractual procedures, insurance requirements, data collation methods and their application and the use of maintenance information and operational building maintenance policies.
After graduating, you can find yourself in property refurbishment or managing and maintaining portfolios of properties.
You may be involved in the diagnosis of building faults, undertaking inspections, and applying construction technology principles when advising on preventative or remedial solutions.
Lectures and tutorials by professionally qualified academic staff and industrial specialists, field trips, case studies and project evaluations.
The entirety of 3rd year comprises a 120 credit work placement module .
You will apply for employment in a role relevant to the course, or source a placement yourself.
A number of placements may be available via the placement team.
However, you should start sourcing your placement yourself as early as you possibly can.
During 3rd year, you will complete a portfolio to demonstrate that you have achieved the learning outcomes for this placement module.
You will be given the opportunity to visit properties and are actively encouraged to develop your building inspection  skills throughout your degree.
Building Design & Technology 1
Property Value Studies
Surveying
Property & Construction Business Law
Building Maintenance and Management
Construction Cost Studies 2
Building Design & Technology 2
Contract Admin and Practice
Building Pathology
Project Evaluation : multi discipline professional project (40 credits)
Sustainable Development
Conservation Surveying
What are the entry requirements for Building Surveying?
Can not be used for subject specific requirement
BTEC Extended Diploma (Level 3)
A degree in Building Surveying will enable you to assess the condition of existing buildings, to identify and analyse defects, and create proposals for repair.
You’ll understand the design and legal principles around building and construction, and gain knowledge of how to ensure public safety and security.
All of these will help you to develop sharp skills in IT, reasoning, analytical thinking, and great attention to detail.
Once you have completed your degree, you will have lots of career paths to choose from, such as:
As a Building Surveyor, you will be working in various branches of the construction industry.
You will shape the way we live by guiding construction and development projects while introducing sustainable and environmentally friendly building methods.
You will have the opportunity to collaborate with architects, engineers, ecologists, property developers and other professionals.
It's likely you'll get to work with some of the latest technologies, such as creating virtual reality models and using data.
Some typical day to day tasks might be:

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-building-surveying-undergraduate-parttime:
You will undertake 4 modules each year/stage, generally two 20 credit modules each term.
In stage 1 you will learn the technical and legal aspects of building surveying along with an understanding of the costs and economics of construction.
In stage 2, you will develop this further and include knowledge on the drivers of Property value, an introduction to construction management and an introduction to computer aided design (CAAD) and develop and awareness of building control and fire engineering.
In stages 3 and 4, you will then progress on to develop an in-depth knowledge of building construction and technology and an understanding of maintenance, construction project and property management and property, and develop your skills in diagnosing building defects and identifying appropriate strategies to remedy these defects.
In stage 5 you will gain enhanced skills in areas of building pathology and building conservation and then apply your skills in a multi-disciplinary project and in your dissertation.
Also, the classes will be held in day time and can not be attended in the evening.
This course is only available for entry into Years 1 and 2.
Advanced entry into Year 1 or Year 2 of this course is possible for students with suitable qualifications.
SQA Advanced Highers

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-construction-project-management-postgraduate-fulltime:
The role of a Construction and Project Manager is to take responsibility for this outcome, managing all elements of the job, including contractors, materials, budgets and timelines.
A complex and often high-pressure role, requiring a methodical mind and excellent coordination skills, it's also one that can be hugely satisfying.
You'll graduate ready to take on major ventures, and be able to co-ordinate them efficiently and effectively.
You will gain an industry-recognised qualification as the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS).
Full-time (available as Part-time ) (available as Online-learning )
Read about the experiences of Building and Surveying students.
Join beX, our Built Environment Exchange programme that provides employability projects, internship opportunities and scholarships.
You will study six taught modules.
A standard module is equivalent to 200 hours of learning and on successful completion of each module, you will achieve 20 credits towards your chosen award.
You will also undertake personal research and complete a dissertation to gain 60 credits towards your masters degree.
The core material is delivered through lectures and tutorials taught by professionally qualified academic staff and industrial specialists.
Independent study is required for each of the modules.
Lectures present concepts, theory, techniques and background information.
Students will undertake three taught modules in each of Trimesters 1 and 2 of the academic year and complete their dissertation in the final trimester.
You will generally attend the university two days a week.
Assessments
Assessments are by a mixture of coursework, case study assignments, projects and exams.
This can consist of a variety of tasks including report writing, essays, research briefs and posters.
You will be provided with formative feedback throughout the modules.
This will enable you to assess your progress and level of understanding.
Full details of the assessment strategy for each module can be found in the module catalogue by clicking on further information for modules listed and then click on the down arrow beside the delivery date of the module.
The campus is a modern and vibrant facility with state of the art teaching and student support facilities.
This module is designed to provide you with a comprehensive understanding of the macroeconomic factors that influence the construction industry and the innovative practices that drive its growth and sustainability.
You'll start by exploring the macroeconomic overview of the national economy, focusing on the five significant components: banks, households, government, firms, and the external sector.
You'll learn how each of these components plays a crucial role in ensuring economic growth.
However, the focus will be on the firm which is described as the construction industry in this module.
You'll explore the role of the construction industry in driving other components of the macroeconomy.Additionally, you will delve into economic models of urban location and growth, learning about urban land economics and the theories that support urban development.
You will examine the economic challenges that arise from construction activities in urban areas, providing you with insights into the economic aspects of urban problems caused by the construction industry.
Furthermore, you'll explore the innovative practices adopted by construction firms to overcome urban economic challenges.
You'll learn about balancing cost and value in construction projects, covering principles such as developers' budgets, whole-life costing, cost geometry, and value management.
Also, you will explore how technologies driven by the Fourth Industrial Revolution are utilised by construction firms to reduce costs and enhance the value of their projects.Throughout this module, you'll engage in interactive lectures, group discussions, and hands-on projects designed to stimulate critical thinking and collaboration.
By the end of the module, you'll have a solid foundation in macroeconomic principles as they relate to the construction industry, urban economic models, and innovative construction practices, preparing you for a successful career in the construction industry.
In this module, you will critically evaluate construction procurement methods and analyse how client objectives influence procurement decisions.
You will develop strategic skills to select suitable procurement approaches for construction projects.
Additionally, you will examine key clauses and documentation in construction contracts, focusing on effective cost management, quality assurance, and timely project delivery.
You will also learn how to apply these contractual clauses practically to resolve contractual issues encountered in professional construction practice.
This module is designed to develop your knowledge and understanding of the production management role in construction project management.
The module addresses a number of topics that are vital to the production of buildings.
You will find that the lectures presented during the module will have an overall focus on a the strategic issues that those concerned with construction production must concern themselves with.
However as you progress your study through the course notes that are presented to accompany the module you will also find a wide range of important operational tools that are necessary to underpin strategic production decisions.
The module encompasses a range of topics under 10 principal units of study.
In Unit 1 you will learn about production management in general, different types of production system, and you will learn about why the construction industry differentiates itself from other sectors in terms of its production methods and evaluate whether or not this differentiation is justified or not.
In Unit 2 you will study various ways in which the construction industry could improve its performance - this will include learning about productivity analysis, work study and lean production methods.
In Unit 3 the module will start to examine the first of the main productive resources, specifically human resources; you will learn that based on the present production strategies, the construction industry is heavily reliant on human resources and you will learn about the human resource planning cycle which is needed to evaluate the future requirements for human resources.
Unit 4 will investigate the various strategies available to acquire the plant and equipment that is necessary for construction production and you will learn about the advantages and disadvantages associated with each strategy.
Unit 5 will examine conventional and future subcontracting trends within the construction industry.
In Unit 6 we will complete our examination of resources for production by studying construction materials - you will learn about the main ways in which materials are procured, managed and specifically you will consider how materials waste can be prevented in future construction production.
In Unit 7 the module will return to considering more strategic industry level production issues starting with an examination of the present performance of the industry at a macro level and considering various previous attempts that have been made to improve the situation together with their effectiveness.
Unit 8 will consider construction as a manufacturing process and you will study to what extent the construction industry can learn from and implement production methods adopted in more productive manufacturing sectors.
Unit 9 will examine the present methods used to schedule construction production and you will consider whether or not these present methods remain fit for purpose going forward.
Finally, Unit 10 will examine Building Information Modelling (BIM) and consider its usefulness in improving construction industry production performance.
This module equips you with the knowledge and skills to appraise and finance projects effectively, exploring the project life cycle from the feasibility stage to financial closure.
Also, it will provide you with an indepth understanding of economic appraisal techniques, project finance instruments, and the role of financial institutions in domestic and international markets.The module is structured around two key areas.
First, you will explore project appraisal techniques and learn how to evaluate construction projects using methods like the Discounted Cashflow Techniques, Capital Asset Pricing Model and Cost-Benefit Analysis.
You will understand how to assess project feasibility, calculate required rates of return, and consider environmental impacts in your decision-making process.
More so, you will also understand how to identify, evaluate, and mitigate risks associated with construction projects.
This knowledge will enable you to make well-reasoned recommendations about project investments.Moreover, in relation to project finance, this module will provide you with practical insights into how construction projects are funded in both domestic and international markets.
Also, you will explore a range of financial instruments, such as bonds, syndicated loans, and derivative products.
You will also examine real-world applications through case studies focused on infrastructure projects in both emerging markets and developed economies.The knowledge and skills you develop will be directly applicable to real-world situations, which will prepare you for roles in project management, financial analysis, and investment decision-making within the construction sector.
Whether you aim to work in project development, financial institutions, or consultancy, this module will provide you with the analytical skills and financial knowledge needed to evaluate and finance major construction projects.
This module is designed to develop your knowledge and understanding of the project management discipline.
The module addresses a number of topics that are vital to the contemporary construction project manager.
Project Management in construction and in general has three major components.
The first is managing and leading the client organisation.
The second is managing and leading the project team and the third is planning, managing and controlling the project.
It is not possible to cover the whole project management discipline in one single module, and many of the other subjects you need to know about are covered in the other five modules that are part of the MSc Construction Project Management Programme.
This module serves as an overall foundation for the project management discipline in construction.
The module is divided into three major parts.
Part 1 presents the basic foundations of the project management discipline.
In Part 1 you will study Units 1 and 2 which define project management and consider what is necessary for a project manager to be successful in their role.
Part II deals with managing people which incorporates many of the strategic, managerial and leadership issues that are of tremendous importance to the contemporary construction project manager.
In Part II you will study Units 3, 4 and 5 and these investigate various aspects of the project managers role in relation to managing the client, managing stakeholders and leading, managing and controlling the project team.
Lastly, Part III concerns itself with managing the project.
You will study Units 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 in Part III and these each focus on different and important operational tools that are necessary for effective project planning and control.
As you can see some units focus on the strategic project management role in terms of managing the client, and managing the project team and others focus on the operational management of the construction project itself.
The modern project management discipline recognises the significance of both the strategic and operational aspects of the construction project manager’s role.
In the past, too much emphasis was placed on operational tools and too little on strategy.
A series of high profile construction project failures has led to a wider understanding and appreciation of the project management discipline and an awareness that the PM must be a ‘strategist’ and a people person as well as a ‘technician’ if projects are to be managed towards the accomplishment of successful outcomes.
You should have a sound understanding of this when you have completed your study of the materials in this module.
The aim of this module is to provide an overview of the risk management methodologies as well as an advanced understanding of the techniques used in risk management and analysis of construction projects in UK and worldwide (where applicable).
The module introduces various risk analysis techniques applicable in construction-related businesses.
On completion of the module, you are expected to have an improved knowledge on the following: - Principles and methodology of risk management - Decision analysis, evaluation and methods for Risks and Uncertainties - Theory on types of risks and the rational approaches to managing risks in national and international projects- Application of Utility Theory to construction and other projects- The Health and Safety Risks in Construction projects and advances in relevant legislation and regulations.
What are the entry requirements for Construction Project Management?
We may also consider applicants who have completed a Bachelor (Ordinary) degree if they have sufficient relevant work experience within the industry.
There may also be an additional essay requirement if they apply with less than an Honours degree, this would be confirmed on submission of the application to the Admissions Team.
As this course is accredited by Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS), the minimum level of qualification to be considered will be at Bachelor (Ordinary) degree level.
To check the equivalence of your qualification or experience, please contact the Postgraduate Admissions team.
The MSc Construction Project Management course at Edinburgh Napier University provides a comprehensive understanding of the construction industry and equips students with a range of skills that are highly valuable in building a successful career in construction project management.
You'll learn the fundamental principles and techniques of project management tailored specifically to the construction industry, including project planning, scheduling, budgeting, risk management, and quality management.
Construction projects are inherently risky, and managing risks effectively is crucial for project success.
You'll learn how to identify, assess, and mitigate risks throughout the project lifecycle.
By acquiring these skills through the MSc Construction Project Management course, you'll be well-equipped to pursue a successful career in various roles within the construction industry, such as:
As a construction project manager, your daily life can be quite varied and dynamic, involving a mix of office work, site visits, meetings, and communication with various stakeholders.
You may start your day by reviewing your schedule, emails, and any updates or issues that need immediate attention.
Plan out your day and prioritize tasks accordingly.
You will spend time in the office working on project planning, scheduling, and coordination activities.
Then depending on the stage of a project, you might visit construction sites to oversee progress, address any issues or concerns, and ensure that work is being carried out according to the plans, specifications, and quality standards.
You also have to attend meetings with project team members, clients, contractors, subcontractors, and other stakeholders.
You have to constantly monitor project costs and expenditures, review invoices and change orders, and ensure that the project is staying within budget.
You will also have to monitor the quality of workmanship and materials on the construction site, conduct quality inspections, and address any deficiencies or non-conformities.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-construction-project-management-postgraduate-parttime:
Unfortunately, we are no longer able to consider applications from international applicants for this course for June 2025 entry.
The next available intake for this course for international applicants will be September 2025.
Part-time (available as Full-time ) (available as Online-learning )
2-3 years
Students will undertake two taught modules in each of Trimesters 1 and 2 of the first academic year and one taught module in each of the Trimesters 1 and 2 of the second academic year.
You will start your dissertation in the second year and submit this one trimester after you have completed the taught modules.
Students can start the course in September or January (January starts will complete in 2.25 years rather than one year due to the summer break between the teaching trimesters for the course).
You will generally attend the university one day a week.
Full details of the assessment strategy for each module can be found in the module catalogue by clicking on ‘further information’ for modules listed and then click on the down arrow beside the delivery date of the module.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-construction-project-management-postgraduate-online-learning:
Online learning (available as Part-time | Full-time )
Sep Jun Jan
This course is ideally suited to individuals who want to balance their personal and professional commitments with their academic development through a Masters degree.
It offers a well-balanced blend of theory and practice which prepares you for work as a Project Manager in the construction industry.
What you study
You'll study seven modules in total, with a maximum of two modules at a time over each trimester.
The order taken will depend upon when you start this course.
Trimester 1 of academic year:• Project Management • Procurement Strategy
Trimester 2 of academic year:• Project Risk Management • Project Appraisal and Finance
Trimester 3 of academic year:• Strategic Management • Production Management
The Dissertation module (60 credits) is run each Trimester and can only be taken after successful completion of the above modules.
For the award of MSc Construction Project Management you must successfully pass all  seven modules, giving a total of 180 credits.
You can pay for this course flexibly on a module-by-module basis and this means that you do not have to pay the full course cost upfront.
This online programme develops you as an independent learner.
The online materials have been constructed in a way which will facilitate a structured order to your learning process allowing you to study at a place and pace which suits your needs.
Teaching and assessment approaches are employed which facilitates deep rather than surface learning; active engagement on the part of the student and the achievement of higher level learning outcomes.
Information on Term dates can be found here .
Assessment methods include:
Exams: You will be required to make arrangements to sit these examinations in the country where you are based and be responsible for any costs involved.
UK based students are expected to sit the examinations at Edinburgh Napier University.
Details of exam weeks are available on the intranet.
You will be provided with formative feedback throughout the module with self-assessment questions and case studies, most of which have outline solutions.
These will enable you to assess your progress and level of understanding.
Appropriate feedback will be available automatically and immediately once the task is completed.
Reflective exercises within each unit will also enable you to apply theory to practice – this is not assessed, but it will support your personal and professional development.
The entry requirement for this course is a UK Honours degree at 2:2 or above.
We welcome applicants with an Honours degree in any discipline.
There may also be an additional essay requirement if they apply with less than an Honours degree.
This would be confirmed on submission of the application to the Admissions Team.
As this course is accredited by Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS), the minimum level of qualification that can be considered is at Bachelor (Ordinary) degree level.
This course is accredited by the Institution of Civil Engineers (ICE) and the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS).
As such, there is a requirement for formal moderated examinations for three of the modules.
You will be required to make arrangements to sit these examinations in your country and be responsible for any costs involved.
Please note: The discount for Edinburgh Napier alumni can only be applied to year one of a full-time Postgraduate degree, any additional years are exempt from the discount.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-environmental-sustainability-postgraduate-fulltime:
Creating a sustainable world that provides a safe, secure, and healthy life for all peoples is a priority for the global community.
Building and maintaining infrastructure nowadays demands solutions that are technically viable, commercially feasible, and environmentally and socially sustainable.
This programme is designed for students whose interest is in the application of science and engineering to environmental issues and sustainable development.
The programme is interdisciplinary in nature and provides students with a broad and integrated understanding of environmental sustainability.
It encourages sharing and disseminating information, knowledge and technology that encourages sustainable development.
Whatever your academic background, studying this course will give you the qualifications you need for a career in the sustainability sector.
This course takes an industry-focused approach, with particular application to buildings, property development, sustainable technologies as well as the waste and water sectors.
Extremely relevant in today’s climate-aware world, this course is aimed at graduates from a wide range of disciplines.
Read more about Alexandra Bantock and her experiences studying her MSc Environmental Sustainability.
This program provides students with deep understanding on the implications of global trends for the environment, for society, for the economy and for the construction industry technical and scientific principles that underpin the sustainable built environment.
It quips students with the knowledge, skills on relevant tools, techniques, systems and practices, their application and how they can be used to improve sustainability performance.
This fosters a sound understanding and critical application of the general principles of environmental technology and sustainable building principles including material properties, sustainability and their performance within the context of today’s construction industry.
This module aims to provide students with the tools to combine science-based knowledge with construction industry drivers for environmental management purposes.
Students will be introduced to a variety of real life case studies dealing with trans-boundary issues, implications of national level regulations to business practice in different countries and monitoring plans.
At the end of the module, students will be able to use the skills they have been taught to apply to real world scenarios.
You are expected to acquire basic knowledge and skill set in environmental engineering and renewable energy management to solve complex problems confronting the society.
Much of this will be in two broad areas namely: 1.
Renewable energy finance: Ecological/Environmental economics, concepts of sustainability, emissions calculations, energy and financial payback, accounting rate of return, Net Present Value (NPV), Internal Rate of Return (IRR), profit ratios, probability applications, sensitivity analysis, RE financial calculations, project finance practical applications, equity and debt finance, venture finance, mezzanine finance, leasing, risk management, securitisation, and energy management system (ISO 5001).
Environmental law: Introduction to environmental law, European community environmental law and policy, administration and enforcement of environmental law, private regulation of environmental pollution, protection of specific environments, water pollution, contaminated land, waste management, land ownership rights and effect of planning law.These topics will be spread over a 10 week period of lectures and tutorials; while you will be expected to submit a coursework at the end of the 6th week and 11th week while you will write a class test covering basic financial modelling tools at the 13th week.
The module is designed to equip students with critical knowledge and awareness of the key issues affecting the sustainability of towns and cities, informed by the UN Goal 11 on sustainable cities and communities.
Students are introduced to urban development processes, appraisal techniques, and models of environmental sustainability, all of which are essential for understanding the social, economic, and environmental issues affecting cities and communities.
Channel & pipe flow revision.
Sustainability: past and present perceptions related to water resources.
Sustainability in water resources engineering: channel morphology, erosion control, coastal erosion, sea defences, indicators and indices for sustainable water resources development.
Concept of whole-life costing and its application to water and waste water systems management.
Sustainable Urban Drainage Systems (SUDS): techniques, policy, mechanisms of pollutant removal in SUDS, and design of SUDS.
Introduction to Waste and RecyclingWaste arising, volumes, disposal, historical perspective, UK and other nation state comparisonsWaste management optionsReduce, reuse, recycle, residue.Residuals managementDisposal optionsStudent-led case studyA recycling or waste management option selected for more detailed analysis
What are the entry requirements for Environmental Sustainability?
The entry requirement for this course is a Bachelor (Honours) Degree at a 2:2 or above in any degree subject.
Evidence of Mathematical ability is also required.
Candidates from all backgrounds seeking to gain an understanding of sustainable development are encouraged to apply.
Can I get admission into Environmental Sustainability based on my working experience in this sector?
As concerns about climate change, resource depletion, and environmental degradation continue to escalate, there is a growing demand for professionals with expertise in environmental sustainability.
Studying MSc Environmental Sustainability degree from Edinburgh Napier University equips students with the knowledge and skills needed to address pressing environmental challenges and make a positive impact in various sectors.
This includes:
The curriculum covers a broad range of topics, including environmental science, policy, economics, management, and social aspects of sustainability.
This interdisciplinary approach prepares students for diverse career paths and enables them to tackle complex environmental issues from multiple perspectives.
You will acquire practical skills in environmental assessment, impact analysis, sustainability reporting, project management, and stakeholder engagement.
These skills are highly valued by employers in sectors such as environmental consulting, sustainability management, renewable energy, conservation, and corporate sustainability.
As an Environmental Consultant, you will often start your day by reviewing project requirements, timelines, and deliverables.
You may coordinate with project managers, clients, and stakeholders to ensure that project objectives are clearly defined and understood.
You may conduct various types of environmental assessments, such as site assessments, environmental impact assessments (EIAs), and ecological surveys.
This involves collecting data, conducting field investigations, and analyzing environmental conditions to identify potential risks and impacts.
You may analyze environmental data, including air and water quality data, soil samples, and ecological surveys.
You will use statistical analysis and modeling techniques to interpret data and identify trends, patterns, and potential environmental risks.
Then you will prepare detailed reports summarizing findings and recommendations for clients and regulatory authorities.
Overall, your daily tasks will involve a combination of technical analysis, regulatory compliance, stakeholder engagement, and communication to deliver successful environmental consulting services.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-environmental-sustainability-postgraduate-parttime:
Many part-time students undertake projects in their place of work.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-facilities-management-postgraduate-distance-learning:
Globally, there is increasing market demand for Facilities Management skills, coupled with a shortage of qualified practitioners with the expertise required to deliver the FM service.
Facilities Management is a key sector of the economy and professional expertise in providing the range of FM services is in high demand.
This course, which is accredited by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) , will equip you with knowledge of the principles and methods of successful facilities management, from technological processes to commercial considerations.
This will enable you to operate professionally at a high level within the industry.
Distance learning study replaces campus attendance with specially-developed online learning materials.
You can study at your own pace, in your own time from anywhere in the world.
Distance learning
Facilities Management is about integrating multi-disciplinary activities within the built environment and managing their impact upon people and the workplace.
It is one of the fastest growing professions, supporting people in their work and other activities and enabling organisations to deliver vital non-core services effectively and responsively.
It ensures physical assets are cost-effective, allows for future change in space use, enhances the organisation’s culture and image and helps provide competitive advantage to the core business.
From the management of technology, maintenance and engineering services within buildings to property asset management, project and change management, space management, corporate social responsibility, risk and compliance, FM covers the range of support services required in modern organisations.
All facilities require ongoing strategic management and there are opportunities to work across the world.
Due to a shortage of qualified professionals with the required expertise, demand is high for suitably qualified FM practitioners.
Whatever your background, this RICS accredited programme will equip you to become a competent professional ready to enter a career in this dynamic field.
The accreditation means this programme meets their academic requirements, putting you on track towards chartered status.
Full chartered status can be obtained following a period of work experience after graduation and on successful completion of the RICS Assessment of Professional Competence (APC).
The course is designed to prepare you to make a valuable contribution to the facilities management of any property type through the teaching of strategic and operational principles which can be customised to an organisation’s particular requirements.
Assessment is by a mix of methods including written examinations and coursework assignments.
Coursework is submitted online so campus attendance is only required for written exams.
For students based outside the UK, exams may also be taken by arrangement at an approved examination centre close to your location.
Further information about the module content, learning outcomes and assessment strategy for each module is available in the online module catalogue.
In this module, you will gain a comprehensive overview of Facilities Management, exploring its key principles and how it contributes to the smooth operation of buildings and services.
You will develop essential skills required in the field, learning how to manage facilities effectively.
You will examine how various services contribute to effective Facilities Management.
You will also explore strategies to improve Facilities Management implementation within organisations, ensuring best practices are followed and gain an understanding of how digital tools can enhance decision-making and service delivery in Facilities Management.
Facilities Managers are the hidden force behind successful organisations, not only keeping buildings running but driving strategy, managing risks, and adding value to businesses.
They shape customer experiences, champion environmental sustainability, and integrate cutting-edge technology to create efficient and future-ready workplaces.In this module, you will tackle real world challenges such as:Strategic Decision-Making – How do you align facility operations with an organisation's goals?Risk Management – What happens when a critical system fails?Value Creation – How can Facilities Management be a value driver, not just a cost centre?Customer Service Excellence – Why do well-managed workplaces improve productivity and satisfaction?Sustainability & Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) – How can Facilities Management contribute to a greener, more ethical world?Project Management – How can FM oversee renovations, expansions, or sustainability projects?Technology Integration – How can digital tools revolutionise facilities operations?By the end of this module, you will recognise Facilities Management as a powerful strategic function that shapes the future of organisations.
Introduction to law and legal concepts; jurisdiction; The principles of contract law and law of negligence; Principles of property law and the law of leases; Law of health and safety relating to the construction sector; Methods of dispute resolution, including arbitration and international commercial arbitration; Forms of contract used in the construction and property maintenance sectors; Choice of procurement strategy and selection of appropriate contract types.
This module will equip you with the knowledge and skills to manage property assets.
You will explore the strategic role of property asset management in maximising the value and performance of property assets while gaining comprehensive understanding of the role of property asset manager, as well as the models, and processes, and technologies that support informed decision-making.More so, you will examine property asset management practices in both the corporate and public sectors, which will allow you to develop an understanding of the unique considerations and best practices in each domain.
Also, you will gain valuable insights into the growing importance of corporate social responsibility and its impact on property asset management.Whether your career goals are in corporate real estate, public sector asset management, or property consultancy, this module will provide you with the specific knowledge you need to succeed in the dynamic and ever-changing world of property asset management.
What are the entry requirements for Facilities Management?
As this course is accredited by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS), the minimum level of qualification to be considered will be at Bachelor (Ordinary) degree level.
To check the equivalence of your qualification or experience, please contact the pgadmissions@napier.ac.uk team.
Can I get admission into Facilities Management based on my working experience in this sector?
Enrolling in the MSc Facilities Management course from Edinburgh Napier University will equip you with a range of skills that are highly valuable from a career perspective.
Facilities Management professionals are required in all sectors of global economies from airports and other infrastructure to leisure facilities, commercial organisations, consultancies, property companies, Integrated FM providers and local and central government.
Possible roles following graduation could include the following:
You will learn fundamental principles and theories of facilities management, including strategic planning, operations management, and resource allocation.
You will also gain knowledge of health and safety regulations applicable to facilities management, ensuring compliance and creating safe working environments.
As a Facilities Management Consultant, your daily tasks and responsibilities may vary depending on the specific projects you're working on and the needs of your clients.
You will need to meet with clients to discuss their facilities management needs, challenges, and objectives.
This could involve understanding their current facilities management processes, identifying areas for improvement, and discussing potential solutions.
You might be also conducting site visits to assess the condition of client facilities.
This could involve evaluating building infrastructure, systems, and equipment to identify maintenance needs, safety hazards, and opportunities for optimization.
You will be overseeing various facilities management projects from inception to completion.
This might involve coordinating with contractors, vendors, and internal stakeholders to ensure projects are executed on time, within budget, and according to specifications.
You have to keep yourself up-to-date on relevant laws, regulations, and industry standards related to facilities management, and ensuring client facilities remain compliant.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-real-estate-management-and-investment-postgraduate-fulltime:
The MSc Real Estate Management & Investment degree is a carefully considered programme which meets current industry demands and develops graduates who have the knowledge and skills required to enter the property industry as valuers, agents, property consultants, managers, and developers.
Working with industry practitioners, the MSc Real Estate Management & Investment course will allow you to gain knowledge of the wide range of principles that underpin property investment assets such as: Building Economics , Property Law , Real Estate Valuation , Property Asset Management , Property Investment Analysis , and the principles of Sustainable Urban Property Development and the skills to apply these effectively.
You will complete the course with a Masters Dissertation on a relevant topic.
More information about the individual modules can be found below and on the module catalogue .
Property plays a key role in business and investment and there is a need to maximize both the return from and productivity of real estate assets.
This requires professional expertise.
There is some £883 billion invested in UK commercial property stock and just over half of this is held as investment assets.
Within the residential sector, the private rented sector alone has a value of £1000 billion.
These real estate assets all require on-going strategic and active management including appraisal, acquisition and disposal Whatever your background, this Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) accredited course will equip you with the knowledge to become a competent and resourceful professional, ready to go straight into a career as a surveyor in the fast-paced property market.
The Masters degree is fully accredited by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) under the Commercial, Residential and Valuation pathways.
A career as a surveyor may suit you if you are interested in property and people, and want a professional role with plenty of variety and prospects.
Graduate prospects are good and recent graduates have gone on to work for the likes of: Ryden, Savills, Shepherd Surveyors, DM Hall, Cushman and Wakefield, Montagu Evans, Valuation Office Agency, Lothian Valuation Joint Board, and Taylor Wimpey Homes.
Full-time (available as Part-time | Distance-learning )
03:19
The course content is delivered through lectures and tutorials taught by professionally qualified academic staff and industrial specialists.
You'll develop abilities to analyse, assess and synthesize solutions to problems and gain an understanding of the business drivers and constraints that influence these solutions.
Your communication skills will also be developed, giving you the confidence you need to interact with clients and fellow industry professionals.
Real Estate Management & Investment is a global trend and as such there are opportunities to work across the world, particularly within the multinational practices.
Our accreditation means this qualification meets their academic requirements, putting you well on your way to Chartered status.
You can obtain full Chartered status following a period of work experience after graduation and on successful completion of the RICS Assessment of Professional Competence (APC).
Chartered Surveyors with a degree in Real Estate Surveying apply their specialist skills in the fields of: development appraisal; Investment appraisal; valuation; agency (buying and selling land and property); and property management.
Graduates can work in the private, public and voluntary sector, which might include: private practice real estate consultancies, commercial and residential surveying firms, property companies, financial institutions and local and central government.
Recent graduates have gone on to work for the likes of: JLL, Shepherds, Rydens, DM Hall, Cushman and Wakefield, Lambert Smith Hampton, Valuation Office Agency, Lothian Valuation Joint Board, Transport for London, Avant Homes and Knight Frank
Most of the staff teaching on the course are Chartered Surveyors, Lawyers and other property professionals.
They have extensive experience as practitioners.
The programme leader is Alison Andrews.
Alison Andrews Alison is a Chartered Surveyor.
Term dates are available through the website.
This course can also be studied Part-time and by Distance-learning.
Assessments are by a mixture of coursework, projects and exams.
Full details of the assessment strategy for each module can be found in the module catalogue .
Students benefit from a central city centre campus with computer facilities that are open 24 hours at the Merchiston campus of Edinburgh Napier University,
The module is designed to equip students with skills for the analysis of property investments and investment markets (of which property is a part) and the ability to apply rigorous analytical tools to inform investment decisions.
Students are introduced to investment appraisal techniques as they relate to real estate, which are then applied to direct, indirect, and derivative property investment markets.
Traditional appraisal models are critiqued to provide the rationale for the application of contemporary methods.
Performance measurements are applied not just to property asset levels, but also to portfolios of properties.
In real estate valuation, analysis, and market insights shape property decisions.
This module introduces you to the key concepts behind real estate valuation, helping you understand how valuations are carried out, the various methods used, and when to apply them.
You will explore the five main valuation methods (the comparative method, investment methods, residual, profits and contractors methods), gaining the skills to assess property value accurately.You will also learn about the professional standards set by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS), including ethical considerations and environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues in valuation.
We may consider applicants with a lower degree classification if they has sufficient relevant work experience in the property / real estate industry.
There may also be an additional essay requirement if applicants apply with less than a 2.2 Honours degree and this would be confirmed on submission of the application to the Admissions Team.
Can I get admission into Real Estate Management and Investment based on my working experience in this sector?
Completing an MSc in Real Estate Management & Investment can qualify you for a variety of roles in both Government and Private sectors, such as:
You will learn how to assess the value of different types of properties, including residential, commercial, and industrial real estate.
This involves understanding market trends, economic factors, and property-specific considerations.
Real estate is subject to numerous laws and regulations governing property ownership, leasing, development, and transactions.
You'll gain an understanding of relevant legal and regulatory frameworks.
You will also learn about the role of economics, including economic models of urban location and growth, models of property asset management and technology used.
You will assess commercial property investments and their markets, apply contemporary appraisal methods and broader investment market analytic techniques.
You will also learn about sustainable urban property development and appraisal.
As a Real Estate Manager, your daily activities can vary depending on your specific role and the properties you manage.
You will be conducting regular inspections of the properties under your management to ensure they are well-maintained and in compliance with safety and regulatory standards.
You might also be managing property finances, including budgeting, expense tracking, and financial reporting.
Real estate managers are responsible for ensuring that properties operate within budgetary constraints and generate positive cash flow.
You have to keep monitoring local real estate market trends and competitor properties to inform strategic decision-making.
Real estate managers may conduct market research to assess rental rates, occupancy trends, and demand-supply dynamics.
You will ensure compliance with relevant laws, regulations, and industry standards governing property management.
This includes staying updated on changes in legislation and implementing necessary measures to maintain compliance.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-real-estate-management-and-investment-postgraduate-parttime:
Part-time (available as Full-time | Distance-learning )
Full details of the assessment strategy for each module can be found in the module catalogue.
Students benefit from a central city centre campus with computer facilities that are open 24 hours at the Merchiston campus of Edinburgh Napier University
What are the entry requirements for Real Estate Management and Investment?

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-real-estate-management-and-investment-postgraduate-distance-learning:
Distance learning (available as Full-time | Part-time )
Real Estate Investment is a global trend and as such there are opportunities to work across the world, particularly within the multinational practices.
Recent graduates have gone on to work for the likes of: JLL, Shepherds, Rydens, GVA, DM Hall, Cushman and Wakefield, Lambert Smith Hampton, Valuation Office Agency, Lothian Valuation Joint Board, Transport for London, Avant Homes and Knight Frank.
Most of the staff developing and delivering (where appropriate) the course material are Chartered Surveyors, Lawyers and other property professionals.
The programme leader is A Andrews MRICS.
The core material is delivered through our virtual learning environment, Moodle, with core course material developed by professionally qualified academic staff and industrial specialists.
Students will undertake two 20 credit modules in each of Trimesters 1 and 2 of the first academic year and one 20 credit module in each of the Trimesters 1 and 2 of the second academic year.
Students can start the course in September or January.
The course is entirely distance learning, so no attendance is required, other than to attend exam centres, as appropriate for any exams.
This course can also be studied Full-time and by Part-time .
Work Placement – there is no credit bearing work placement and many distance learning students are already in the profession and undertaking the course to enhance their knowledge and to enable them to apply to for the Assessment of Professional Competence which is the next step to becoming a Chartered Surveyor after graduating from the course.
Those not employed in the sector are encourages to take up the opportunities offered by property industry to engage in insight weeks and then summer internships/placements.
Although this course is delivered online, you have access to the library and virtual desktop service provide by Edinburgh Napier University.
You also have numerous opportunities to engage with the University through feedback and contact with your personal development tutor.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/study-with-us/apprenticeships/bsc-hons-construction-and-the-built-environment-ga:
The RICS Accredited BSc (Hons) Construction and the Built Environment Graduate Apprenticeships aims to produce graduates with the skills, knowledge and behaviours to make a valuable contribution to their employing organisation.
Participants on this programme will join one of 4 specialist pathways, which aligns with their job role:
Block Release, Full-time
This Graduate Apprenticeship is fully accredited by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) for the surveying pathways, and the AT pathway is accredited by CIAT (Chartered Institute of Architectural Technologists).
You will graduate with both an Honours degree and the underlying knowledge and skills to progress and achieve the highly regarded professional qualification awarded by RICS and CIAT.
As a Graduate Apprentice you will study for your degree alongside your job, spending approximately 80% of your time in work and 20% in university.
This unique combination offers an integrated experience, where practical skills and knowledge gained during the university days can be embedded in your working practices.
Skills learned directly in the workplace are aligned with and can be applied to coursework and assessment.
This allows you to attain an honours degree in 4 years, the same time as traditional full-time students.
RICS and CIAT.
In accord with the Framework developed by the Technical Expert Groups (TEGs) advising Skills Development Scotland (SDS) on Construction & Built Environment, Subject Benchmarks set by the Quality Assurance Agency (QAA) for both Architectural Technology as well as Land, Construction, Real Estate and Surveying and in addition to the Chartered Institute of Architectural Technologists (CIAT) and the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) Competency Mappings, the programme’s curricula includes the following:
As a Graduate Apprentice, you benefit by being both an employee and a registered student at Napier.
You typically spend 20% of your work time studying through a mixture of university-based and work-based learning.
Studies are designed to complement your role in the workplace.
This Graduate Apprenticeship is taught over 4 years at our School of Computing, Engineering and Built Environment, based in our Merchiston Campus in Central Edinburgh.
This programme is delivered over a full calendar year on a block release basis.
Our block teaching takes place over 3 x 2-week periods in August, December and May.
You will be expected to attend university for the entirety of these teaching blocks, during which all teaching and assessment will take place.
The remainder of your time, outside of teaching blocks, will be spent working with your employer and developing your professional competencies.
Your work-based learning will be overseen by a workplace mentor and university coach.
You will be offered tripartite progress review meetings each trimester to support you in your work and studies.
A mixture of practical assessments, reports, academic essays and exams.
You are also assessed on your learning in the workplace, primarily in the summer trimesters.
As you progress through the course, more of your job role is used to gain credit towards their final award through Professional Practice and your final-year dissertation.
The assessments will allow you to demonstrate your application of the knowledge and skills you are gaining both though your studies and through your work experience.
You will be a full-time employee for the duration of the programme.
Graduate apprentices can enjoy the same full access to our campus facilities as a full-time student.
All learning takes place at our Merchiston campus, which is centrally located in the heart of Edinburgh.
Merchiston campus is home to our creative, computing and engineering students.
Facilities include modern classrooms and cutting-edge labs.
Our Merchiston Library is a bright attractive environment providing both silent and collaborative study spaces designed to suit a variety of learning styles.
In addition, Merchiston boasts a business incubator, two cafes and a 500-seat computing centre, with both Mac and PC hardware, that is open 24hrs a day in Trimesters 1 and 2.
For more information on each module click on the link below or visit  the module catalogue.
Full details on teaching and assessment are found at the bottom of each page
All Surveying pathways (common year 1):
Architectural Technology Pathway:
Building Surveying pathway:
This programme is available to new and existing employees who work and reside in Scotland.
Entry requirements cater to professionals and can account for both academic and work-based experience.
You must be employed in the same field as your chosen subject area.
All applicants must:
Advanced Entry
Advanced entry into Year 2 or 3 is possible for students with suitable qualifications.
If applying for advanced entry, you will need to provide sufficient evidence of qualifications and experience through our process of Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL).
Applications are considered on an individual basis.
Work Experience and Professional Qualifications
We encourage applications from individuals whose work experience or professional qualifications provide them with a comparable foundation for starting the course.
You will be asked to provide evidence of at least 1 year’s relevant work experience through a detailed CV or application form, including an employer reference.
Advanced entry may also be granted if you have sufficient industry-related experience and qualifications.
Foundation and Modern Apprenticeships
We offer enhanced recognition for Foundation and Modern Apprenticeships if you are applying to a Graduate Apprenticeship in a similar subject area.
Please refer to our typical entry requirements for more information on each course.
Already have a degree or similar qualification?
You could apply for funding for a Graduate Apprenticeship in a similar subject area if your existing qualification is at a lower level.
You may also be eligible for funding if you have completed a degree in a different subject area.
For example, if you recently completed a Biology Honours degree, you can still apply for a Civil Engineering Graduate Apprenticeship.
You are not eligible to apply for a Graduate Apprenticeship if you have completed a similar degree within the past 5 years.
To meet our Standard Entry Requirements you must have EITHER:
Our Minimum Offer Entry Requirement: CCCC plus National 5 grade C in English and Maths
To meet our year 2 entry requirements you must have EITHER:
To enter this programme at the start of Year 3 you must have 240 SCQF credits (or equivalent) of which a minimum of 120 credits are at SCQF 8 (or equivalent) and/or significant recognition of prior learning (RPL) through industry-related experience, qualifications, and informal learning.
SCQF Level 8 qualifications can include:
Graduate Apprenticeships are fully funded through Scottish Funding Council and Student Awards Agency Scotland (SAAS), and supported by Skills Development Scotland.
Once you have been offered a Graduate Apprenticeship place, you should apply to SAAS for funding, who will pay your tuition fees directly to the university.
There are no associated learning costs to the Graduate Apprenticeship employer.
All Graduate Apprenticeship applicants must meet SAAS eligibility and residence conditions to apply.
Visit the SAAS website for more information.
As a Graduate Apprentice you are fortunate to be studying for your honours degree alongside your work-based apprenticeship position and to have the support of both Edinburgh Napier staff and your workplace.
You are first and foremost an employee for your organisation, and therefore could develop your career through your entire apprenticeship journey.
Your employer will look for opportunities for you to apply your learning in work and develop as a professional, meaning you may be offered career progression opportunities at any time during your studies.
Whether you’re working on site or behind a drawing board, in construction you'll shape and build the world.
This Graduate Apprenticeship opens the way to a broad range of jobs in this exciting sector, such as:

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-quantity-surveying-undergraduate-fulltime:
The work placement module in third year allows you to apply the knowledge you have learned in the classroom to live projects under professional supervision.
The year-out is fully credit-bearing.
Furthermore, our BSc Quantity Surveying course offers part-time and full-time options of learning making the course flexible to suit your requirements.
Our course is fully accredited by the RICS and is based on construction economics.
K242
"I love that there's a legal side to it, there's a finance side to it, you're negotiating contracts, you're speaking to people every day, and you're out and about."
00:45
The third year is spent in the workplace, which is fully credit-bearing towards your final Honours degree.
Learning in the workplace provides invaluable experience and allows you to put into practice what you have learned in the first two years as well as preparing you for your final year modules.
No exams in year 1.
Assignments comprise mainly scenario-based activities emphasising the applied knowledge approach and employing an active learning ethos.
What are the entry requirements for Quantity Surveying?
BTEC (QCF) National Diploma (Level 3)
If you are at school and enjoy subjects such as Computing, Maths, Geography, Graphic Communication and English then you are already on the right path to becoming a surveyor.
You may also want to consider doing subjects such as Physics and Design Technology as these will teach you valuable skills that will help you during your studies.
Edinburgh Napier University has articulation agreements with many partner colleges so if you are already studying surveying at college you could gain advanced entry into second year and continue your studies towards your honours degree in Quantity Surveying.
A quantity surveying degree will offer you a rewarding professional career with opportunities to work with a wide range of people on many exciting projects, ranging from small buildings through to large multimillion pound construction sites.
Edinburgh Napier University's quantity surveying course is accredited by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) and upon graduating you can further develop your professional skills to gain Chartered status through RICS.
Choosing to become a surveyor will put you on an exciting career path that will enable you to make a difference to the world around you through the impact of your work.
Quantity Surveying gives you the chance to work on exciting projects, ranging from small buildings through to large multimillion pound construction sites.
Career prospects include:
The construction industry is growing, making quantity surveying a great career path that offers excellent opportunities and progression, where a job could take you anywhere in the world.
Quantity surveyors are the experts who bring together construction, engineering and economics.
The nature of this profession requires good analytical and financial management skills, along with the ability to mix creativity with problem solving.
If you have a knack for mathematics and are intrigued by large-scale construction efforts, then this is a great career path for you.
As a quantity surveyor, you are involved at every stage of construction projects by overseeing, analysing and reporting on progress to ensure quality and building standards are met.
These responsibilities can also include working with subcontractors, purchasing construction materials, monitoring all spend to avoid unnecessary costs and prevent overspend.
As a quantity surveyor, you are there at every step of the construction process; overseeing, analysing and reporting on its progress and quality while maintaining the building standards.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-quantity-surveying-undergraduate-parttime:
No exams for all level 7 modules in the first 18 months of the programme.
Quantity surveying is a well-paid and valuable professional career route.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bsc-real-estate-surveying-undergraduate-fulltime:
A career as a surveyor may suit you if you are interested in property and people, and want a professional role with plenty of variety and prospects
The Honours degree in Real Estate Surveying is fully accredited by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) and is accredited under the Commercial, Residential and Valuation pathways.
Graduate prospects are good and recent graduates have gone on to work for the likes of: JLL, Shepherd Surveyors, Ryden, Savills, Avison Young (GVA), DM Hall, Cushman and Wakefield, Montagu Evans, Valuation Office Agency, Lothian Valuation Joint Board, and Taylor Wimpey Homes.
N231
''I would say to anyone thinking of applying for the course or any course at Napier to just go for it.''
Professor Mark Deakin Mark is Head of the Building and Surveying group, the Programme Leader for this course, and a Chartered Surveyor as well as a leading academic.
Dr Cletus Moobela Dr Cletus Moobela is a Chartered Surveyor and an Associate Professor in Real Estate.
Surveying 1
Property Valuation 1
Planning & Development 1
Property Valuation 2
Planning & Development 2
Property Valuation 3
What are the entry requirements for Real Estate Surveying?
The BSc (Hons) Real Estate Surveying course has been designed specifically to meet the needs of employers and the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS).
It offers you the opportunity to develop a career as a Chartered Surveyor.
As a Real Estate Surveyor, you will use market intelligence to analyse property transactions, value what property is worth and price it should command when transacted.
This market intelligence will cover property transacted in the residential, commercial and industrial sectors and typically involve the valuation of houses, shops, offices, factories and warehouses.
Graduates of Real Estate Surveying can work in the private, public and voluntary sector.
Employers include -
Recent BSc (Hons) Real Estate Surveying graduates have gone on to work for organisations like: JLL, Shepherd Surveyors, Ryden, Savills, Avison Young (GVA), DM Hall, Cushman and Wakefield, Montagu Evans, Valuation Office Agency, Lothian Valuation Joint Board, and Taylor Wimpey Homes.
Your primary duty as a real estate surveyor is to value property.
This means you have to take accurate measurements of the site it occupies, floorspace this offers and calculate the value the property commands  as a market transaction.
Your day-to-day responsibilities will generally include:

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-real-estate-surveying-undergraduate-parttime:
In stages 3 and 4, you'll be provided with an in-depth knowledge of real estate appraisal: investment and development, as well as specialist and statutory valuation.
You'll also examine how urban planning regulates the development of property and value of real estate.
You will also gain 120 credits through work placement module over these stages.
In the final stage, you will focus on advanced valuation and planning & development, and how to work on a joint project with other disciplines.
You shall also undertake a dissertation.
Students will utilise their current employment related to their part-time surveying studies by undertaking the work placement module in Trimester 3 of years 4 and 5.
Construction Cost Studies 1
Facilities Management
You will also start on your work placement module in Trimester 3 of this stage and onto Trimester 1 of Stage 4

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/building-and-surveying/building-and-surveying-student-stories:
Shaun Millar Former student
A collection of mini video lectures from BSc Quantity Surveying and BSc Architectural Technology
Alexandra Bantock International Student
3:19

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/building-and-surveying/building-and-surveying-placements:
Choosing to enrol in a placement will offer you a fantastic opportunity to engage in challenging real-world situations, allowing you to apply various theories from the classroom and putting your developing skills to the test.
You will spend time in the workplace ranging from 1 week to 12 months, gaining real-life, hands-on work experience in a relevant field of study.
For example, if you are looking to become a surveyor, previous students have had the chance to work with leading surveying firms during their placement trimester, which have resulted in opportunities for graduate employment.
Placements offer you an opportunity to gain valuable work experience, related to your studies, prior to graduation.
They provide an opportunity to apply what you've learned through lecturers and tutorials to real life working environments.
We strongly encourage all students to do a placement as part of your degree.
We have found that not only will it help you decide what you want to do when you graduate and potentially lead to graduate job offers, but research suggests that those who have completed a placement achieve a higher degree classification overall.
Generally, more people who do a placement get higher final grades than non-placement students (C.
Jones, et al , 2017).
At Edinburgh Napier, we pride ourselves on our strong links with industry, and that’s why our current and past students have worked with some of the most influential businesses in Building & Surveying sector.
Here are a few thoughts from some of our students and alumni, who have completed placements as part of their course:
- Finlay, BSc (Hons) Quantity Surveying.
- Lisa, BSc (Hons) Architectural Technology.
- Calum, BSc Architectural Technology.
On the following courses, you will have the opportunity to take on a 12-month placement starting in Trimester 1 of your 3rd year.
Whilst on placement, you will undertake work-related assessments alongside gaining valuable work experience.
On the following courses, you will have the opportunity to take part in an insight week, starting in Trimester 3 of your 3rd or 4th year studies.
Placements are incredibly beneficial.
They provide you with work experience that is related to your field of study and allows you to apply the skills you develop through your studies to the workplace.
Several students who have undertaken placements in the past have received offers of graduate employment from the placement host company.
Placements also provide an opportunity to explore your preferences, including the environment, culture and size of organisation you prefer working in.
You will be encouraged to attend placement preparation sessions ahead of commencing your placement, which will be tailored to the course you are enrolled on.
Sessions include an opportunity to hear from and meet employers and support with all aspects of searching for a placement, from developing their CV and cover letters to interviewing and identifying suitable placement hosts.
The Placement Team works closely with employers across the UK and regularly promote the latest placement opportunities directly to you.
Proactive students are also free to source and secure their own placement before verifying it with the placement team.
If you have any queries or concerns before, during or after your placement, you can contact scebeplacements@napier.ac.uk to speak to a member of the team.
You can find detailed guides on building a CV and advice for cover letters on our Student Futures Career Hub .
There are even virtual events you can sign up to participate in.
You can find out more information on our Student Futures web-page .
We work with businesses, charities, and the public sector to advertise placement opportunities.
Our aim is to make it as easy as possible for you to work with our students and placements offer the following benefits to your organisation:
When you make the choice to work with our students, your business will benefit from their skills and ideas.
Through our research-based teaching, placements and extra-curricular activities, our students develop strengths in leadership, teamwork, and project management, which make them highly employable graduates.
The University has continued to climb the ranks, making us the highest placed of the Scottish post-1992 modern universities in the table.
If you would like to discuss a placement opportunity, contact us at: scebeplacements@napier.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/building-and-surveying/building-and-surveying-facilities:
5:27
The Trimble X7 3D Scanning System is a high-speed 3D scanning system with advanced technologies and an array of features which makes it extremely effective at scanning environments and creating 3D rendered models from the data it collects.
The models can be used for analysis and a whole range of surveying and geospatial applications.
The X7 comes with a range of high-tech innovations as standard, including the automatic calibration, Trimble registration assist, Georeferencing, and in-built software that can be paired with the Trimble app.
The Trimble Perspective mobile app provides the core functionality of the field software for controlling the scanner.
You can create new projects, set scan and imaging parameters, and view the scans and images in the field.
When you will use this equipment: You will use this equipment when studying surveying, analysis, construction management modules in courses related to Building & Surveying.
Where this can be found: The Trimble Technology Lab in Merchiston campus
Who to contact: Please contact Dr Suha Jaradat at S.Jaradat@napier.ac.uk for any enquiries
Edinburgh Napier University has partnered with Trimble Technology to deliver a suite of state-of-the-art equipment that will be used by teachers and students to enhance learning in Building & Surveying courses.
The Trimble Connect Augmented Reality (AR) is a wearable headset that allows the user to visualise and analyse their surrounding with additional components.
This technology allows the user to go onto a building site and visualise where all the pipework and structures will go in real time from a first-person perspective, and then move around the area to understand the configuration and make changes.
Trimble Connect AR enables you to improve your Quality Control workflows by viewing your digital models at a 1:1 scale onsite and in context.
Allowing the user to detect errors, observe omissions, and visually collaborate to resolve them.
The Trimble Multirotor Unmanned Aircraft Vehicle is an aerial imaging tool that captures and processes geo-referenced photo and video data for mapping and inspecting areas of land.
This drone UAV is able to follow a pre-programmed path where take off, flight, and landing require minimal human intervention.
The ZX5 holds a camera that captures aerial images of a defined area from a specified height.
Alternatively, the rover can be operated manually, allowing the operator to have full control over flight path and camera angle.
Typical applications of this piece of equipment include Orthophoto creation, Digital Elevation Model (DEM) or Digital Surface Model (DSM), and Photogrammetry.
These can be used in a whole range of ways like topographical surveying and infrastructure mapping, while the stills captured can be used for architectural and building inspection and more.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/impact-case-studies/tallest-timber-building:
Scotland’s tallest timber building will become a physical showcase for the benefits of cross laminated timber (CLT) construction.
And the imposing seven-storey structure, soon to become a prominent part of the skyline in Yoker, Glasgow, will also come packed with Edinburgh Napier expertise.
CLT first emerged on the market in 2003 and off-site construction specialists CCG hope their new project, overlooking the River Clyde, will illustrate its capabilities and bolster demand for the ultra-strong material, made of multiple layers of lumber at right angles to one another.
They also hope the flagship 42-flat development will encourage a revision of building standards regulations so they are more accommodating of future CLT projects as a sustainable alternative to steel and concrete.
Designed by Mast Architects and based on Ellerslie Road, the Yoker project will have a range of expert input from specialists at the University’s Institute for Sustainable Construction.
Glasgow-based CCG earlier worked with the University via its Centre for Offsite Construction + Innovative Structures to determine the technical viability and market feasibility of utilising CLT, commonly called ‘massive’ timber, within a Scottish context.
This work contributed to the university winning the 2015 Queen’s Anniversary Prize for its work in wood science and technology.
The research assistant David Crawford moved on to CCG following this research and is now project lead at Yoker.
The latest chapter in the story of the partnership between the company and the University, supported by the Construction Scotland Innovation Centre, will also call on Edinburgh Napier’s expertise in acoustics, energy performance and sustainability.
The Robin Mackenzie Partnership, the university’s acoustic consultancy division, which carries out more than 500 projects per year, will provide advice on architectural acoustic design, sound insulation testing and industrial noise reduction.
Meanwhile, the university’s Scottish Energy Centre will offer expertise in energy monitoring, thermal performance assessment, systems design and building performance evaluation.
Associate Professor Robert Hairstans , Head of the Centre for Offsite Construction + Innovative Structures, said: “Edinburgh Napier has an established relationship with CCG, underpinning their strategic innovation with academic rigour.
This project demonstrates how the challenges associated with specifying modern sustainable construction techniques such as CLT can be alleviated through this type of collaborative approach.
“Via the academic partnership, the thermal and acoustic performance of details are robustly informed and third party tested in-situ.
Closing this information loop ensures robustness in design.”
The University plans to bring together all of the information gathered during the life of the project, scheduled for completion in autumn 2017, to produce a CLT best practice guide.
The Yoker project - second only to nine-storey Murray Grove in London’s Hackney in 2009 terms of large-scale CLT developments in the UK - also offers potential for knowledge exchange between industry and academic partners, and the thermal and acoustic information which is gathered will feed into future MSc Architectural and Building Performance teaching programmes.
CLT panels are produced from kiln-dried spruce/fir planks which are laid into sheets before being stacked at right angles and glued under high-pressure bonding in perpendicular layers.
They can be used for all elements of a building’s superstructure; the walls, floors and roofs.
Efforts to establish demand in Scotland come amid international recognition that the material represents an exciting development in the field of timber engineering.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/our-schools/school-of-computing-engineering-and-the-built-environment/bex:
We bring together International Universities and construction industry partners, to develop dynamic talent and deliver experiential learning opportunities for undergraduate, early career postgraduate and doctorate students.
beX participants learn to harness the new skills required to positively impact future changes in construction delivery and construction technology.
We aim to attract and develop talented graduates who will lead the sustainable communities of tomorrow whilst decarbonising the economy.
2:15
3:43

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-business-analytics-postgraduate-full-time:
Are you ready to become a business-ready analytics professional?
Our MSc Business Analytics program equips you with the knowledge, skills, and hands-on experience you need.
This course focuses on the practical application of analytical techniques in business settings, making it ideal for those who want to excel in business intelligence, business insight, business analysis, management consultancy, or simply wish to make better use of data and make more accurate decisions in their current field.
Imagine gaining hands-on experience and the practical skills needed to stand out in the competitive business world.
Our curriculum aligns with the Certified Analytics Professional (CAP) qualification, potentially shortening your path to CAP certification.
Take the next step in your career and become an expert in transforming data into actionable insights.
In today's data-driven world, businesses are eagerly looking for individuals with the expertise to extract meaningful insights from the volumes of data now available to them.
Our MSc Business Analytics program equips you with the knowledge, skills, and hands-on experience you need to become a business-ready analytics professional.
You'll gain the knowledge and practical experience to effectively utilise descriptive, prescriptive, and predictive analytics to make sound business decisions and drive success within any organisation.
A key design thread linking the program's modules is the development of performative competency.
Together, the modules you study will develop your ability as a  'business-ready' analytics professional who can choose the best techniques to address different business problems, formulate models with software and programming tools, and interpret and then persuasively communicate findings to both a technical or lay audience.
Lead academics
Professor Maxwell Chipulu
Associate Professor Sujoy Bhattacharya
Compulsory Modules
Optional Module
Business Analytics and Change OR Digital Analytics Strategy
The course will utilise a range of teaching and learning methods to ensure that students achieve the learning outcomes.
Learning activities will include:
Class activities and problem-solving exercises will enable you to gain feedback about your knowledge and understanding, before any formal summative assessments.
A range of assessment methods are used in this program to enable you to demonstrate your achievement of the intended learning outcomes, including: - Individual computer modelling tasks where you submit a model;
To enable you to customise your program to your learning styles and interests, both the learning methods and assessments will allow you as much flexibility as is feasible.
For example, you may choose the topic, materials, databases, analytic techniques, group members, etc.
for an assignment.
Similarly, teaching and learning topics will be related to the latest business practices from diverse industries, allowing you the chance to learn from the examples most suit your interests.
We recognise that not all students may undertake learning and assessment as specified.
Therefore, to ensure that the course is inclusive of and considerate of diverse needs, we will make alternative, individualised, arrangements if you are not able to complete learning and teaching sessions or assessments in the specified manner.
The final project is the most important part of the MSc Business Analytics program.
It is a chance for you to independently conduct a large project on a business problem or issue of your choice or provided by a real organisation, with real datasets, using the analytics techniques covered in the program.The final project requires you to:- Choose a topic and get it approved by your supervisor.- Design and conduct a research plan.- Find and use relevant information sources.- Plan and manage your time effectively.- Communicate with your supervisor regularly.- Write a well-presented report.The final project is a test of your ability to use your analytics skills to solve a real-world problem.
You will be assigned a supervisor to advise you, but it is your responsibility to manage and complete the project.
It is a challenging but rewarding experience.
It is your chance to apply everything you have learned in the program and to demonstrate your readiness for a career in business analytics.To be successful in the final project, you need to be able to:- Think critically and creatively to select and develop the right analytical model for the problem.- Work independently and manage your time effectively.- Handle and analyze large datasets.- Be comfortable with the uncertainty and complexity of such projects.
In this module, you will develop in-depth understanding of the theory, practice and managerial implications of using analytics and AI as part of an organisation's marketing strategy.
The syllabus will introduce you to key principles and challenges, including the analysis and evaluation of data from websites and social media to improve marketing performance.
You will engage with a range of literature to reflect critically on contemporary issues and evaluate the role of data  and AI ethics in an organisational context.
In addition, you will get hands-on experience in analytics and AI tools used by marketing practitioners, resulting in strong strategic and applied knowledge in AI and analytics on successful completion of the module.
This module has a focus on change management and people analytics and importantly contributes towards a greater understanding of how to manage change and the key levers which support the successful implementation of change projects.
People analytics plays an important part in this and this module explores how to develop people measures to diagnose potential areas of concern and to measure and track progress of change projects to inform current and future organisational strategy.
The ability to manage change is a key HRM skill and often it is people professionals who lead and support both the diagnosis and implementation of organisational change projects.
This module is focussed upon helping you to understand the complex nature of change, the different strategies that can be employed to manage it, the issues that people management professionals involved in the implementation of organisational change can face, and the key levers and mechanisms that can be used to both implement change successfully and to maintain change over the longer term.
The module begins with consideration of the nature of the different types of organisational change which take place and the change models available to support both the diagnosis and management of change.
It then goes on to consider how to identify and manage resistance both before and during change, as well as an examination of the key levers and mechanisms that can be utilised to help overcome resistance and sustain change over the longer term.
Communication and participation are then studied in the context of leading change and overcoming resistance with a focus on how HRM professionals can involve people in the implementation of change and facilitate buy-in to different change outcomes.Reflecting on how culture change is altered over the longer term is a core aspect of sustainable change programmes and the theory is presented and discussed.
Finally, the latter half of the module has a focus on people analytics and how measures can be developed to diagnose strategic activity and manage change, it also looks at how the presentation of data through a scorecard approach can be utilised to inform and measure the pace of change over the short and long term as well as informing both current and future strategic direction.
The module aims at introducing you to the new possibilities opened up by the digital revolution and how these can be translated into the field of global logistics.
You will be exposed to several data analytic techniques, including data cleaning, data visualisation, and dashboard report development (in R) with a focus on application to global logistics and sustainability.
More specifically the module will cover aspects such as:(i) Introduction to Data Analytics: understanding the big data landscape; (ii) Data Processing; (iii) Data Visualisation: telling a story; (iv) Analytical Techniques: Introduction to Descriptive, Predictive, Prescriptive and Cognitive; (v) Simulation/Network Analysis; (vi) Practical Issues: Dashboard Development
This module aims at introducing you to the new possibilities opened up by the business analytics revolution and how these can be used in the field of decision-making in business and management.
You will be able to understand how different analytical techniques can be used to make the best business decisions.
You will be exposed to several decision-making fields with business analytics, including management decision-making, types of managerial decision-makers, analytics in management decision-making, organizational readiness for data-driven decision-making, and decision-making with different analytical techniques.
You will be able to identify the right analytical approaches for different business situations and make the best decisions.
You will obtain practical managerial and analytical skills using R to make business decisions for organizations in different sectors.
This module aims to provide you with a sound understanding of the approaches and techniques to structure, design and execute with rigour your final project of the program involving business issues informed by the experience of real organisations.
In the first trimester, the module introduces you to a range of key generic, qualitative and quantitative techniques that are relevant to addressing your final project.
In the second trimester, you will get the chance to take a deeper dive into the techniques that most suit your final project through workshops, computer labs and clinics.
Artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning, and ethics will be crucial to changing business models and decision-making in the future.
AI is changing businesses and the way they work.
Businesses are facing new technological solutions connected with big data and advanced analytics.
This module aims to introduce you to how we can use AI in different businesses connected with analytics.
You will be exposed to different areas of AI and analytics, like business intelligence, concepts, drivers, and major technologies of AI, including machine learning techniques, deep learning, robotics, the internet of things, etc.
You will learn about the different types and methods of machine learning and how businesses have applied machine learning successfully.
In addition, you will be able to understand the role of risk and ethics within AI, and how AI, machine learning and ethics have an impact on the performance of organizations.
You will understand the different types of models, what kind of business questions they help answer, or what kind of opportunities they can uncover.
By the end of this module, you will have a foundational understanding of AI in business and be able to apply these technological solutions to your business environment.
Have you ever wondered how streaming companies know what movies and TV shows you will like?
Or how do retailers know which products you will want to buy?
It's all thanks to Predictive Analytics.
Predictive Analytics is a way of using data to predict future events.
Businesses and organizations of all types use Predictive Analytics to make better decisions.
Here's a simple example:Imagine you're running a lemonade stand.
You want to know how much lemonade to make on a given day.
You could just guess, but wouldn't it be better to know with more confidence how many people will want lemonade?
You could use predictive modelling to figure this out.
You could use data like past sales numbers, the day of the week, and the weather forecast to predict how many people will want lemonade on a given day.Predictive Analytics can be used to predict all sorts of things, like:- How many people will attend a concert?- How many products a company will sell?- How much traffic there will be on a given road?- How likely a customer is to churn?- How likely a student is to succeed at university?
etc.In this module, you will learn about different predictive analytics techniques and how to use them to help your organisation make more accurate decisions about future events.
Decision-Making for OrganizationsOrganizations face many complex decisions every day.
They need to find the best solutions to these problems in order to run their operations and plan for the future efficiently and effectively.
This module will teach you how to use prescriptive analytics techniques to formulate and solve decision problems optimally.Part 1: OptimizationOptimization techniques use models to find the best solutions to problems with multiple variables and constraints.
These techniques can be used to solve a wide range of problems in business, such as resource planning, investment planning, machine scheduling, logistics, and supply chain management.Part 2: SimulationSimulation is a technique that uses computer models to represent and analyse real-world systems.
Simulation can be used to study a wide range of systems, including operational systems (such as hospitals, airports, and supermarkets) and strategic systems (such as the healthcare system and the supply chain).This module will give you the skills and knowledge you need to use prescriptive analytics to make better decisions in your organization.
What are the entry requirements for Business Analytics?
The entry requirement for this course is a Bachelor (Honours) Degree at 2:2 or above in a degree with significant quantitative component.
Suitable fields include: Statistics, Psychology, Maths, Physical and Biological Sciences, Business Management, Economics, Finance, Engineering, Computer Science.
Can I get admission into Business Analytics based on my working experience in this sector?
As the influence of data analysis methodology grows, and the volume of data collected increases rapidly, the number and variety of roles in data science are also growing significantly.
The purpose of our MSc Business Analytics degree is to develop industry-ready analytics professionals who have knowledge and skills in the techniques that are integral to developing and implementing the analytics function of organisations, making graduates attractive to employers.
In the Scottish Employer Skills Survey (Scottish Government, 2021) complex analytical skills accounted for 44% of skill-shortage vacancies.
Graduates will have gained useful and practical business skills and descriptive, prescriptive and predictive analytics knowledge.
This will enable them to significantly contribute to the performance of any organisation and to deliver important information for key business decisions and business development within the global business environment.
Additionally, the program will develop software and modelling skills for implementing analytics projects, including the use of tools that are widely used in the analytics industry such as Python, R, Excel-based modelling, and Simul8.
A Business Intelligence Analyst professional plays a vital role in supporting businesses to make date-driven decisions .
They collect, analyse and interpret large volumes of data to transform numbers into actionable insights that inform business decisions.
Working in this role will mean you have excellent problem-solving skills , digital abilities and great communication.
Data collection and integration
Data analysis
Identifying trends and opportunities
Business development and optimisation

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-business-management-postgraduate-fulltime:
Are you contemplating a career in business or looking to enhance your qualifications?
Our MSc Business Management program will equip you with the practical skills needed to advance your career.
Whether you're new to the field or currently working, we prepare you for the real world by helping you develop crucial skills such as presenting arguments and building cases underpinned by evidence and rigor.
Imagine developing a deep understanding of a broad range of business management disciplines, with the opportunity to broaden your skill base in a chosen specialism.
Our course is designed to enhance your personal and professional skills, making you stand out in the competitive business world.
Enquire now for more information and take the first step towards advancing your career with our MSc Business Management program.
Full-time (available as online-learning )
(available as online-learning )
Our practical course is based on real issues faced by businesses today, covering topics ranging from creativity in business to global economics, strategic management and organisational change management.
You’ll learn to creatively address issues such as competition and sustainability and acquire knowledge of the global economic and business environment.
You’ll develop leadership and team development skills and an understanding of management and organisational methods.
Guest speakers add value to this course, which is updated regularly to reflect current business issues.
You may also choose to introduce a specialism to your course to reflect your area of interest.
For example, Entrepreneurship.
Recent graduates, continuing students, management practitioners, business professionals, international applicants and aspiring entrepreneurs can all benefit from our MSc Business Management, which is intended to appeal to people of all ages and from a broad spectrum of backgrounds and experience.
Lead Academic
Dr Miles Weaver - Programme Leader for MSc Business Management and teaches modules in Purpose-driven Organisations, Sustainability Strategy & Supply Chain Management.
He also leads The Business Schools' efforts towards PRME (the United Nation's Principles for Responsible Business in Management) and at a university level.
Assessments for this course include:
This module will teach you the most essential analytical tools required for economic decision makingsuch as: the concepts of economic systems, profit and utility maximisation, demand elasticity, marketequilibrium, market structures, macroeconomic objectives, government policies (monetary, fiscal andtrade policies) tools and their impact on businesses.
You will also learn how to evaluate theadvantages and disadvantages to the business of a range of sources of finance, how managers reporton the financial affairs and financial position of the business, and how to analyse financial reports inorder to evaluate business performance.
This module looks into the workings of Strategic Management and offers a thorough insight into its significance and core elements.
During the module, you will investigate the business landscape by examining macro level influences, industry patterns, and competitor actions.
This overview forms the basis for assessing assets and capabilities that are crucial in crafting successful strategies.
The Role and Nature of Strategic Management explores these fundamentals, leading into a detailed analysis of the External Environment, covering macro-environment, industry and competitor analysis.
This connects directly to analysing internal resources, capabilities and core competencies, followed by examination of business level and corporate level strategy.
The module then moves to International business strategy, while dealing with routes to competitive advantage through Strategic development, including mergers and acquisitions, alliances and joint ventures.
It equips you with knowledge and abilities in overseeing corporate connections and expansions.
Finally, it addresses strategy implementation by examining structure, culture, and change, giving you insight into executing strategy by adjusting structures, nurturing a conducive environment culture, and handling strategic organisational change.
This module focuses on the interconnected nature of business and the importance of achieving and maintaining business excellence in a global environment.We will begin by examining internal business processes and asking what a business should excel at.
You'll learn tools and models to measure an organisation's success, like the Balanced Scorecard and EFQM.
These help you get a quick, comprehensive view of the business before covering lean thinking, operations/supply chain management, quality management, business improvement, and sustainability within the context of a circular economy.
Secondly, we focus on customer/stakeholder relationships and ask how customers view the business.
We focus on marketing, sales, stakeholder relationship management, market entry and development strategies, and digital communications.
Additionally, we will seek to understand consumer journeys and broader societal concerns like responsible consumption and diversity.Both themes will underpin theory and practical discussions on emerging issues in sustainability.
To include the latest thinking and trends in sustainability, decarbonisation and the circular economy.
Discussions will draw on taking a systems thinking approach to sustainability and framing within the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs) and how to engage multiple stakeholders meaningfully in creating sustainable value with impact.
Leadership, Strategy and Innovation covers a range of topics that address and explore contemporary approaches to leadership, innovation, and strategic decision-making processes, in business organisations.
You will have the opportunity to learn and explore the role of leaders in encouraging and inspiring creativity in organisations.
As corporations seek to increase and stimulate creativity and innovation across all their hierarchical levels, this module focuses on factors and processes that enable leadership and strategic thinking to generate transformational change.
You will learn how organisations can efficiently and effectively harness the resources and the variety of creative talents available within their structures and systems to attain their goals.
This module will also give you the opportunity to expand your knowledge and deepen your understanding of the role and importance of strategy, decision making and leadership processes in supporting creativity and innovation.
This module includes relevant theoretical models to examine more closely the role that leaders play in setting the strategic directions of their organisations.
You will explore leadership processes and critically analyse how leadership fosters creativity and innovation.
Both the ‘hard’ and ‘soft’ aspects of leadership are explored in this module, which also gives you the opportunity to critically consider how leaders interact with their followers and promote a culture of innovation in organisations.
One of the most significant issues a manager faces when attempting to create a successful organisation in today?s fast changing technologically driven business environment is the management of innovation.
This module is about the management of innovation and in this module you will learn how to manage it in a practical way.
You will do this by examining, discussing and critically evaluating, in detail, both the theory and practice of innovation management in some of the world?s most innovative organisations.
You will, during this learning process, in addition to honing your analytical skills, be encouraged to create an extensive ‘toolkit?
which you could use when managing innovation in your future career.
This module focuses on the behaviour of people at work by placing an emphasis on understanding the vital importance of managing change and culture.
It covers two broad areas, namely: 1.
Organisational Behaviour:  attitudes; perception; motivation; groups and teams; leadership; management of transformational change; power, politics and conflict; and 2.
Managerial Process and Skills:  activities designed to develop skills relating to the management of people, including corporate social responsibilityBy the end of the module you will have developed an appreciation of the dynamics of working organisations in a rapidly evolving business environment by planning and carrying forward system-wide change programmes.
What are the entry requirements for Business Management?
Can I get admission into Business Management based on my working experience in this sector?
By studying and MSc in Business Management at Edinburgh Napier University, you will have developed a professional attitude and business mindset, allowing you to develop the practical skills to plan and analyse business strategies and come up with solutions to business problems.
You will be able to communicate effectively and be a team player, with sound decision making skills.
If you are a good problem solver, and enjoy presenting and collaborating with others, then this might be the right course for you.
Careers you may pursue on completion of this degree will likely be in starting your own business or working in the commercial or public sector in financial services, sales and marketing, operations or human resources.
As an operations manager, you will be responsible for ensuring different departments of the organisation work collaboratively in order to achieve the successful daily operations and output of each business function.
You will have excellent communication and leadership skills and be a team player.
Daily tasks and responsibilities within this role will likely include:

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-business-management-postgraduate-online-learning:
Whether you’re contemplating a career in business or looking to enhance your qualifications, our online (part-time) MSc Business Management will equip you with the practical skills and knowledge you need.
It’s ideally suited to individuals who intend to balance their personal commitments with their studies.
This is a fully online course that will build on your existing experience and knowledge and enhance it with up to date business theory.
You may wish to combine your MSc Business Management with one of the following specialisms to reflect your area of interest:
Online learning (available as Full-time )
Our online (part-time) course has been developed for the dynamic global business environment.
It focuses on developing skills in the application of management theories to current practice and a thorough understanding of leadership, giving you the expertise you need to take on senior roles.
You’ll gain a sound theoretical grounding in business management and stimulate an enquiring, analytical approach.
For the award of MSc Business Management you must successfully pass all eight modules, giving a total of 180 credits.
Your learning experience will be enriched through online discussions that supplement the written materials, as well as opportunities to analyse case studies from diverse sectors and articles from leading academics and practising professionals.
Edinburgh Napier University welcomes applications from current and former Armed Forces personnel and offers entry based on training and education already received while in service.
To assess your eligibility please contact our UK Student Recruitment team providing digital copies of your qualifications and indicating which course you would like to apply for.
Edinburgh Napier University is a member of the MOD’s Enhanced learning Credit scheme (ELC)
See just a few of the ways that our researchers have made an impact on the economy, industry and society.
In recent years, students have come to our MSc courses with degrees from many different disciplines, and have gone on to build careers in a range of industries in the public, private and voluntary/not-for-profit sectors.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-business-and-enterprise-online-undergraduate-online-learning:
The BA Business and Enterprise online (part-time) course offers a top-up degree for those currently in work with relevant experience and vocational qualifications but no degree.
It provides an opportunity to progress directly into the third year of a degree course.
With flexible study options and practical content, the course develops your business, management and enterprise skills and enhances your career opportunities.
Norman loved the practical experience this course provided which gave him insight into his future career.
Find out how he secured a job after studying with us here at Edinburgh Napier.
This course is delivered completely online (part-time), giving you the opportunity to make a real difference in your career with a minimum of disruption to your work and personal life.
A BA Top-Up is the equivalent of the final year of a full-time Bachelors degree, delivered by us straight to your screen via our flexible online learning environment.
The course involves a combination of assessments and independent study.
Assessments are practical and applied, including work-place assignments and case studies.
With work-based learning as a core element, this course will benefit both you and your employer.
The practical nature of this course has resulted in many of our students gaining promotion on completion of the degree.
This course will increase your confidence in business and personal development as well as your earning potential.
Throughout the course, you’ll have access to experienced teaching staff, many of whom are practitioners in the industry, to assist you in your studies.
Practical and applied assessments, including work-place assignments and case studies.
For the award of BA Business & Enterprise you must successfully pass all four modules, giving a total of 120 credits.
What are the entry requirements for Business Enterprise (Top-Up)?
HND Business with grade C at SCQF Level 8
All applicants should ensure their personal statement evidences why they want to study the course.
Applicants who do not meet the standard entry requirements may be considered if they have a minimum of 5+ year's relevant business work experience.
The above personal statement requirements also apply.
Following graduation you'll be well placed to seek employment with a wide range of private, public and third sector employers in roles such as:

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/mba-business-leadership-and-practice-postgraduate-fulltime:
Are you a recently qualified ambitious graduate with experience in areas such as the voluntary sector, family businesses, or leadership roles in student unions, sports clubs, or societies?
Or have you recently started your career in a business-related job or completed a work placement?
If so, our innovative 24-month Edinburgh Napier MBA programme is tailored for you.
It recognizes the rise of young entrepreneurs and the demand for graduates to quickly acquire higher-order managerial skills to advance their careers.
Our programme is designed for the dynamic, contemporary, global business environment, focusing on developing skills in leadership and the application of conceptual management theories to current practice.
Imagine acquiring creative problem-solving, critical reasoning, and strategic thinking skills, and gaining the confidence to present your ideas and strategies to the business world.
You will also have the opportunity to enhance your learning experience with Masterclasses and Employability skills workshops.
Our MBA in Business Leadership and Practice boasts a 95% overall student satisfaction score (PTES, 2023).
Don't miss the chance to advance your career with our MBA programme.
The programme surpassed my expectations, providing me with a comprehensive, dynamic education that armed me with a position for guaranteed success in the ever-changing business industry.
Yash Sonawale, MBA Business Leadership & Practice
Designed for early career professionals, an MBA is different from other masters degrees in that it draws very much on your life and personal experiences.
You’ll have group work, real-life examples, and case studies to work through in addition to learning business strategy in a simulated environment.
Our MBA programme is designed to develop your skills as a manager and leader on an international stage.
We do this by supporting your study in analysing environments, formulating strategy, taking decisions and leading change programmes.
The course helps you develop practical experience and insight as well as build valuable links between theory and practice and enhances your overall employability.
The programme covers the full range of MBA skills as well as additional action learning and critical reflection skills – essential for the modern manager.
You'll acquire creative problem solving, critical reasoning and strategic thinking skills, and apply these to your learning about global economic and finance principles, strategic business issues, organisational management and the realities of the competitive marketplace.
You'll develop your written and verbal communication techniques, giving you the confidence to present your ideas and strategies to the business world.
On graduation you’ll join our MBA Alumni community, giving you access to future masterclasses and networking.
Programme Leader
Dr Mahinda Yapa Mudiyanselage
You’ll learn through a combination of lectures, tutorials, workshops, presentations and discussions, and other interactive learning experiences.
Classroom-based learning is enhanced by masterclasses with guest speakers from various business sectors, keeping you in touch with contemporary business solutions.
Reports, Case Studies, Reflection Logs, Presentations – they are all present in the assessment of the modules.
This module will teach you how to use critical economic analysis for business decision making and strategy development, within a social framework.
You will gain knowledge of relevant business and economic theory and how to apply that knowledge in a practical environment.
The skills and academic knowledge developed in this module will constitutes one of the pillars that underpin the Business Practice Project which is key to successfully completion of the programme.
You will be introduced economic decision making and how to apply business economic theories to analyse markets.
You will learn how to make optimal decisions using marginal analyse.
After study the module, you will be able to understand the macroeconomic environment of business and how the macroeconomic environment impacts on individual business decision making.
A business adds value through its operations, which today are typically highly dependent on the linking together organisations within the value network, connect with customers, improve delivery, personalise products and services, and match demand and supply.
It is vital that managers and leaders understand both how business operations are designed, managed, and improved, and the relationship between new product/service development and operations.
The module aims to: • develop knowledge and understanding of the key challenges of building and managing operations.
• build knowledge and understanding of the role played by people in operational delivery including Lean and Agile working • equip students to be able to analyse and recommend improvements to the operation of a business system, whether a start-up or a well-established enterprise.
Content:• Fundamentals of operations management and operations strategy • Supply chains, value chains and value networks alignment with operations  • Enterprise Resource Management and planning • Capacity planning, tools and techniques • Lean operations and alternatives • Quality management systems, tools and techniques?
• Knowledge management systems in business, current and future digital technologies  • Process mapping and new product and service innovation and development • Operations leadership, role of people and culture for continuous improvement
The module has been designed to enable you to learn and explore contemporary perspectives on business and leadership and provide fundamental of main business functions.
Each of the topics will be further examined in the modules to come enabling you to deepen your business knowledge and practice in the respective subject area.
Indicative content include: Business organizations: and purposes of business; core business functions of a firm.
Markets, industries and its?
players and their behaviour; competitive market environment and analysis.
Principles of HR management; Leadership and role of the leadership in business  Principles of Operation management; core business operations: sourcing, demand and production planning, and logistics.
Role of finance management in business and financial strategy Investment and investor decision making in the financial market and sources of financing  Marketing fundamentals: introducing the marketing mix; the role of marketing in strategy development.
Business growth and strategies.
On this module you will enhance your self-awareness regarding a number of key areas.
You will developing as a team member and leader, heightening your awareness of valuing difference.
You will learn about networking as a skill, about creating a brand, about career planning and also about reflecting on what works well for you in a business context.
In terms of your academic skills you will develop your digital literacy through learning where to source data, as well as in how to interpret and evaluate it and to use it.
You will also develop as a self-regulated learner through becoming more aware of key literacies and skills relating to referencing, assessment and feedback.With regard to the development of skills, these skills to be developed will include professional communication and persuasive writing in academic and business contexts, and also an ability for time management.
You will also give presentations using different media and work to develop your own inner feedback (using external sources of information to evaluate knowledge and understanding).In relation to whether these are separate within the module, they will often be delivered discretely, but in an order that allows for them to be iteratively and cumulatively drawn upon to complete the tasks and transfer the knowledge from these tasks to other MBA modules and content.
At other times, particularly towards the end of the module, you will draw on a range of the abilities and knowledge you have learned to complete tasks.
This module will help to equip you if you do not have accountancy and finance knowledge with the ability of financial decisions making in a corporate business environment.
You will learn the process of evaluating business performance as well as various techniques for valuing firms/businesses.
The module will also discuss the key managerial decisions.
You will be exposed to various approaches for investment appraisal and capital raising.
The module will offer a reflection on the contemporary issues business managers face in the current social and environmental conditions.
The module has been designed to enable you to develop your knowledge, and skills as an independent business consultant  and produce a business report for a chosen business problem.The module comprises of a seminar series that help students to gain necessary research skills to conduct an independent business research.
Typical topics include: Research Process and Planning Seminar; Research problem identification and developing a design; Business Research Proposal development ; How to do a Literature Review; Data, Data Collection and Sampling; Qualitative Research and Data analysis Methods; Quantitative Data analysis Methods; Writing, Communicating and Reporting Research."
This module provides a theoretical foundation in management and organisational behaviour, which then links with follow-on module on year 2.
The module emphasises the key knowledge for the successful completion of the programme.
Framed within the wider contexts of employee relations and managing change,  this module includes critical examination of the impact of people management and leadership practices on organisational, team and individual behaviour.
The module builds on the theories explored in previous modules  and sets the basis for understanding the fundamentals of people management and organisational behaviour in changing contexts.
Further to this, you will explore the way work is organised (rational and social theories) and how these feed into the contemporary business environments.
The module is also concerned with learner development of a business orientation, a concern with adding value through HR practice, and a range of skills pivotal to successful people management practice, effective leadership and the valuing of difference.
This includes critical reflection, problem solving and decision-making skills;  a range of team working and interpersonal skills and others associated with developing personal effectiveness and credibility at work.
The module introduces marketing strategy as fundamental to organisations?
strategic planning, formulation, implementation, measurement, and control.
Marketing involves value creation and the exchanges amongst customers and society.
The module critically examines strategic marketing planning processes, customer identification, customer needs, and how these can be satisfied in a challenging and competitive global marketing environment.
Contemporary marketing concepts and theories are introduced to examine the micro and macro marketing environment.
This is examined as part of organisations?
marketing processes, linking to digital marketing communications.
The module aims to develop your critical thinking and analysis skills so you can make effective and evidence-based strategic marketing decisions.
This will create an awareness for the role of marketing strategy in business.
Topics you will cover include: The marketing environment, marketing mix, segmentation, branding, and innovation issues of marketing sustainability including aspects of market research and analysis.
The module content will be delivered using practical examples and case studies that aim to develop critical, analytical, and problem-solving skills.
This module provides you exposure to strategic business environment.
It critically explores the analytical frameworks and techniques for the analysis of uncertain and dynamic business environments and effective strategy formulation, implementation and evaluation.
In addition, the module considers the strategic paradoxes and tensions – the key challenges of strategic management.
Furthermore, the module provides an opportunity for you to make strategic decisions in a simulated business context, aimed at achieving business targets..
What are the entry requirements for MBA Business Leadership and Practice?
Applications need to be supported with a personal statement detailing the reasons for choosing the particular specialism.
We may consider lesser qualifications if you have sufficient professional work experience within the industry.
As this is a conversion course, we will not consider applicants with Masters level qualifications in the same field i.e.
Business Management/Administration.
Can I get admission into MBA Business Leadership and Practice based on my working experience in this sector?
This MBA (Business Leadership and Practice) programme is designed to develop your skills as a manager and leader in an international environment.
The programme focuses on developing leadership skills, strategic thinking, and practical business knowledge that can be applied across a wide range of industries and organisations.
The course also looks to build valuable links between theories and practice.
We do this by supporting your study in analysing environments, formulating strategy, making decisions, and leading change.
With this MBA, you are equipped to take on leadership roles that require both a deep understanding of business operations and the ability to manage teams, influence stakeholders, and drive organisational change.
A Business Development Manager plays a key role in the growth and expansion of an organisation by identifying opportunities, building relationships, and driving strategies to acquire new clients, enter new markets or launch new products.
The main goal of a Business Development Manager is to increase revenue and profitability through strategic business initiatives.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/baba-hons-business-management-undergraduate-fulltime:
This course provides you with opportunities to discover how organisations are managed whilst developing your business mindset.
You'll explore the internal structures and strategies which businesses adopt in response to key external drivers for change that impact upon them.
With flexible study options and practical content, the aim of the BA (Hons) Business Management programme is to offer several major/minor combinations that take advantage of the flexibility of the modular structure and promote student choice.
The course provides modules that give you real-world experience and the option to undertake a work placement.
The practical knowledge and wide range of skills you will acquire through studying the programme will enable you to pursue a broad range of career opportunities upon graduation.
For those who wish to start their own business whilst studying or after graduating, The Bright Red Triangle – our start-up incubator with certified and experienced business advisors and a sleek co-working space in central Edinburgh – is available to make use of.
We are a top 5 UK Modern University for career and graduate prospects, ( Guardian Good University Guide 2024)
N200
I wanted to go to a university that is focused on preparing students for an ever changing job market.
Kristoffer Andersen
BA (Hons) Business Management student
In your first two years you'll build a foundation in the essentials of effective business management.
This foundation prepares you for the options to engage with applied learning within an industry placement, or to explore diverse cultures through studying abroad within our extensive partner network.
This course offers you excellent employability skills including professional presentation, team working, leadership, communication and problem solving.
Our mission statement : ' Empowering our communities to apply business knowledge for positive societal impact' .
There is an optional six month work placement in Year 3.
You can choose to study abroad, in English, at one of our partner universities for one trimester.
Standard Entry Requirement: BBBB
Minimum Offer Entry Requirement: BCCC
With a Business Management Degree from Edinburgh Napier University, you will have developed a professional attitude and business mindset, allowing you to develop the practical skills to plan and analyse business strategies and come up with solutions to business problems.
Careers you may pursue on completion of this degree will likely be in starting your own business or working in the commercial or public sector in financial services, sales and marketing or human resources.
A Business Analyst is responsible for improving business output by solving issues related to the organisation you work for and finding solutions.
You will most likely have to communicate effectively with cross functional teams including IT, Project Managers and Finance to ensure effective implementation of projects or solutions.
Typical daily tasks you may carry out include:
Planning and drafting a business case for your project.
E.g , why it is required .
Gathering documents and market and industry analysis on certain issues.
Developing feasibility studies.
Rewriting and developing business processes to make them better.
Presenting progress updates to stakeholders.
Carrying out User Acceptance Testing to monitor how your solution may work or benefit service or product users.
Tracking market trends and developing business strategies.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-business-management-ba-topup-undergraduate-online-learning:
Our Business Management top-up course provides you with a broad foundation in business and helps you develop skills across a number of business disciplines to complement your previous studies and prepare for a career in business.
You may wish to combine your Business Management with a specialist theme as listed below:
Jun Jan Sep
This is a vocationally relevant course designed to equip you for a career in business and management.
A BA top-Up is the equivalent of the final year of a full-time Bachelors degree, delivered by us straight to your screen via our online learning environment.
You'll also have a solid foundation on which to proceed to more specialist studies.
For the award of BA Business Management you must successfully pass all six modules, giving a total of 120 credits.
What are the entry requirements for Business Management (Top-Up) ?
A HND in Business with grade C at SCQF Level 8
On successful completion of the course you'll be well placed to enter employment in management related positions and management trainee posts in both public and private sectors.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-business-management-west-lothian-college-undergraduate-fulltime:
Our business management courses provide you with a broad foundation in business and help you develop skills across a number of business disciplines to prepare you for the dynamic global business environment.
Based at West Lothian College , this course offers you the opportunity to qualify for a BA degree.
It's also available part-time.
The course has been specially designed for you to progress easily from further to higher education and top up your qualification to Bachelor level at West Lothian College, with the option to continue to Honours at the Business School at Edinburgh Napier.
Full-time (available as full-time )
(available as full-time )
It’s about being open to new experiences, pushing yourself as much as possible and taking advantage of opportunities.
Sara Young
Graduate, Marketing Management
“It’s about being open to new experiences, pushing yourself as much as possible and taking advantage of opportunities.”
“I started university slightly older than most: I had worked, I had travelled, and I wanted to be sure that I was getting the most from a four-year investment.
I’m glad I chose Edinburgh Napier University - the teaching is fresh, energised and engaging, the facilities are top-of-the-line, and the tutors themselves are mostly practiced industry professionals.
I now live in New York working in marketing and branding for financial services company UBS AG, while completing a postgraduate degree in International Business.
It has been a great experience so far.
Edinburgh Napier taught me to challenge myself and motivated me to seize opportunities which is the reason I am where I am today.”
Sara Young , Graduate, Marketing Management
This is a one year full-time course based at West Lothian College.
Aimed at students who have an HND in a business or management related subject, this course offers you excellent employability skills including professional presentation, team working, leadership, communication and problem solving.
You'll enter directly into Year 3 of the degree.
Upon successful completion of Year 3, you'll be eligible for a Bachelors degree.
You may choose to transfer to the Business School to complete Year 4 where, upon successful completion, you will be eligible for an Honours degree.
You'll have the opportunity to choose the direction of your studies, through a range of options from business, finance, marketing and more.
Although you'll be studying at West Lothian College, you will officially be enrolled as a student of Edinburgh Napier University.
You'll learn by a variety of teaching methods including lectures, tutorials and through independent study.
Below is an indication of the modules you could study:
What are the entry requirements for Business Management (West Lothian College?
Pass HND in Business, Administration and IT, Human Resource Management or Marketing with grades CC at SCQF Level 8 in the graded unit(s).
CMI
ILM
The broad scope of this course means you are not restricted by an industry or sector.
Possible areas include:

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-business-management-west-lothian-college-undergraduate-parttime:
It has been specially designed for you to progress easily from further to higher education and top up your qualification to Bachelor level at West Lothian College, with the option to continue to Honours at the Business School at Edinburgh Napier.
This is a part-time course which can be tailored to suit your needs.
This is a part-time course based at West Lothian College.
With the support and guidance of our tutors you'll develop an individualised programme of study that best suits you.
Two modules are offered per trimester in each year of study.
You may choose to study one or two modules depending on your circumstances.
You'll enter directly into Level 3 of the degree.
Upon successful completion of Level 3, you'll be eligible for a Bachelors degree.
You'll have the opportunity to choose the direction of your studies, through a range of options from business, finance, marketing and more
What are the entry requirements for Business Management (West Lothian College)?

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-business-management-with-sustainability-undergraduate-online-learning:
Our BA Business Management with Sustainability (top-up) is a one-year programme that combines the study of business principles and practices with the knowledge and skills to address the social and environmental challenges of the 21st century.
It will t each you how to apply sustainability concepts and frameworks to various business functions and contexts, such as strategy, operations, and finance.
The degree also develops critical thinking, analytical and decision-making abilities, as well as ethical and responsible leadership skills.
Case studies and practical assessments will enhance your understanding of real-world sustainability issues and solutions and help prepare you for diverse and rewarding careers in the public, private or third sector, where you can contribute to the advancement of sustainability goals and values.
Online learning (available as Part-time)
12 -24 months
This is a one year online course aimed at students who want to obtain an Ordinary degree to enhance their career and supplement their existing skills and experience from within business; or for those who have an HND in a business or management related subject who wish to get a degree.
You'll have the opportunity to focus in sustainability issues as they relate to business, and study a range of optional modules from business, finance, and more.
The BA Business Management with Sustainability (top up) will combine the study of business principles and practices with the knowledge and skills to address the social and environmental challenges of the 21st century.
Students will learn how to apply sustainability concepts and frameworks to various business functions and contexts, such as strategy, operations, and finance.
Preparing students for diverse and rewarding careers in the public, private or third sector, where they can contribute to the advancement of sustainability goals and values.
The provision is delivered in part-time distance learning mode.
Students are typically already in employment and look to advance their career.
The proposed provision will empower them to do so, while positively contributing to wider sustainability goals by enabling graduates to implement sustainable business practices into their current and future workplaces.
Edinburgh Napier University’s extensive online learning resources.
You will be given a dedicated programme handbook that contains all the information you need to know about your programme and studying at the University more generally.
You will also be given a student email account and provided with access to our student-focussed online information service myNapier.
We will also introduce you to our virtual learning environment, known as Moodle, which enables you to engage and interact with a variety of learning support materials specific to the modules you will be studying.
You have access to a BABM (Online) dedicated programme page that provides information on wider programme and university issues.
What are the entry requirements for Business Management with Sustainability (Top-Up)?
An HND in Business with grade C at SCQF Level 8
Applicants who do not meet the standard entry requirements may be considered if they have a minimum of 5+ year's relevant business management work experience.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-business-management-with-entrepreneurship-undergraduate-fulltime:
Our Business Management with Entrepreneurship course combines a broad range of academic theory in the area of business management with the latest applied thinking in the field of entrepreneurship.
This course provides modules that give you real-world experience and the option to undertake a work placement.
This will prepare you for a range of projects and careers with small, medium and large employers, or for venturing out on your own.
We are the Top Scottish Modern University 2025 (THE World University Rankings).
N2N1
What are the entry requirements for Business Management with Entrepreneurship?
The broad course opens up more employment opportunities in commercial business and the public sector.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-business-management-with-hospitality-undergraduate-online-learning:
Our BA Business Management with Hospitality top-up course provides you with a broad foundation in business and helps you develop skills across a number of business disciplines to complement your previous studies and prepare for a career in business.
You will also have the opportunity to complement your studies with a deeper understanding of the nature and context of hospitality.
12 – 24 months
This Business Management with Hospitality course is offered as a BA top-up and is designed to equip you for a career in business and management.
Building on your previous experience and skills, you’ll develop your understanding of the theories and concepts of business and management and the ability to apply these in practical business situations.
This specialist route will critically examine current hospitality concepts and theory and their application within a global context, and it will develop your knowledge and understanding of modern hospitality business development and practices.
On completion of this course you will be able to effectively search and critique the literature and conduct research into hospitality related issues using relevant sources and methodologies.
For the award of BA Business Management with Hospitality you must successfully pass all six modules, giving a total of 120 credits.
What are the entry requirements for Business Management with Hospitality (Top-Up)?

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-business-management-with-human-resource-management-undergraduate-fulltime:
Our Business Management with Human Resource Management course combines broad ranging business knowledge with specific human resource management skills on this specialist route.
The course equips you with the key competencies to add value to organisations through the effective employment, engagement and development of people.
We are a top 5 UK Modern University for Career and Graduate Prospects (Guardian Good University Guide 2024).
N2NP
What are the entry requirements for Business Management with Human Resource Management?
A degree in Business Management with Human Resource Management (HRM) at Edinburgh Napier University opens up career opportunities to contribute positively within various functions such as business operations or human resources.
Our Business Management with Human Resource Management course combines broad business knowledge with specific human resource management skills on this specialist route.
This provides you with highly desirable and transferrable skills across industries.
This course equips you with the key competencies to add value to organisations through the effective employment, engagement and development of people.
These opportunities provide practical experience, insights and professional networks to enhance career readiness.
On successful completion of this course Edinburgh Napier graduates are well positioned to shape workplace culture and improve business functions.
Below are some roles that you could go into with a degree in Business Management with Human Resource Management.
A Human Resource (HR) Manager plays a key role in overseeing the human resources functions within an organization.
Their primary responsibility is to manage and support the workforce, ensuring that the company's HR policies, practices, and strategies align with its overall business goals.
Many alumni currently hold positions in human resource management in the private, public and third sector.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-business-management-with-hrm-undergraduate-online-fulltime:
Our BA Business Management with HRM top-up course provides you with a broad foundation in business and helps you develop skills across a number of business disciplines to complement your previous studies and prepare for a career in business.
Sep Jan Jun
This Business Management with HRM course is offered as a BA top-up and is designed to equip you for a career in business and management.
You'll also gain an understanding of employee resourcing and development reflecting diversity in international approaches to development.
For the award of BA Business Management with HRM you must successfully pass all six modules, giving a total of 120 credits.
What are the entry requirements for Business Management with HRM (Top-Up)?
HND in Human Resource Management (HRM) with grade C at SCQF Level 8
OR
HND Business with HRM elements included with grade C at SCQF Level 8
Applicants who do not meet the standard entry requirements may be considered if they have a minimum of 5+ year's relevant business management work experience that also includes elements of HRM work experience.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-business-management-with-marketing-undergraduate-fulltime:
Our Business Management with Marketing course combines broad ranging business knowledge with strategic marketing competencies.
The course will further advance your creative and innovative skills to successfully market and promote yourself across a variety of industries and sectors.
We are a top 5 UK modern university for Career and Graduate Prospects (Guardian Good University Guide 2024).
N2N5
Studying Marketing Management at Edinburgh Napier has been the best experience.
I would highly recommend this course!
Eilidh Muir
BA (Hons) Marketing Management student
What are the entry requirements for Business Management with Marketing?
The Business Management with Marketing course at Edinburgh Napier University combines broad business knowledge with focused strategic marketing competencies.
This course provides strong fundamentals to build your creative and innovative skills in various industries to drive business growth and influence marketing strategies.
You will develop a range of highly desirable transferable skills that are valuable across various business and marketing functions.
This course will equip you with the key competencies required to add value to organisations through the effective relationships, business operations and marketing strategies.
This course provides modules that give you real-world experience and the option to undertake work-based learning.
On successful completion of this course Edinburgh Napier graduates are well positioned to improve business and marketing functions.
A Marketing Executive plays a key role in supporting and executing a company’s marketing strategies to promote its products or services.
Their primary responsibility is to work closely with other departments to execute marketing plans, drive brand awareness, and support cross function relationships.
Overall ensuring the company meets their strategic goals.
Many alumni currently hold positions in various marketing functions across different industries.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-business-management-with-marketing-online-undergraduate-online-learning:
Our BA Business Management with Marketing top-up course provides you with a broad foundation in business and helps you develop skills across a number of business disciplines to complement your previous studies and prepare for a career in business.
This Business Management with Marketing course is offered as a BA top-up and is designed to equip you for a career in business and management.
You'll also gain an understanding of modern marketing practices, including international issues in direct and digital marketing.
For the award of BA Business Management with Marketing you must successfully pass all six modules, giving a total of 120 credits.
What are the entry requirements for Business Management with Marketing (Top-Up)?

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-human-resource-management-with-organisational-psychology-undergraduate-parttime:
This is a part-time top-up degree, lasting three trimesters, aimed at those who are currently working in the field of HR or Organisational Psychology and those who aspire to do so.
Students applying for September 2021 should have already completed two years of an undergraduate business degree (or equivalent).
Please note: the programme will run from September 2021 to May 2022 (two trimesters) and September to December 2022 (third and final trimester), with the summer trimester off.
You’ll gain the knowledge and skills of Human Resource Management, drawing on theoretical, practical and business focused perspectives.
This will be combined with the study of key areas of organisational psychology to enable you to more fully understand the social and psychological processes operating in organisations and to develop ways of improving them through the application of specialist Human Resource Management processes.
To enquire about this programme, please contact the Programme Leader, Dr Ciaran McFadden.
Part-time
16 months
This is a 16-month part-time top-up to Year 3 degree programme , which comprises 6 modules.
Your should also develop:
What are the entry requirements for Human Resource Management with Organisational Psychology?

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-international-business-management-undergraduate-fulltime:
Whilst studying, you'll gain a strong foundation in a wide range of business and management disciplines, together with skills and experience that will enable you to meet the challenges of a career in the fast changing international business environment.
You'll become competent in the analysis of the impact of cultural differences on a wide variety of business decisions and consumer behaviour.
Your study of the international business environment and its particular needs will be reinforced by a compulsory year abroad of study or a combination of study abroad and work-based learning abroad.
N1R2
At ENU, my course significantly broadened my horizons and provided incredible opportunities for professional and personal growth.
The international perspective gives you such a competitive edge too.
Talia Hodghton
BA (Hons) International Business Management Graduate
You'll study the theories and techniques of accounting, economics, marketing and business strategy, and learn to apply them in a global context, enabling you to develop employability skills specific to companies with international economic activities and immerse yourself in the culture of the country of your choice.
You'll learn a number of business-related skills, including professional presentation, team working, leadership, communication and problem solving and your study of the international business environment will be reinforced by a compulsory year abroad of study, or a combination of study abroad and work-based learning abroad.
Study abroad for a full academic year in Year 3 is compulsory for our International Business Management programme.
What are the entry requirements for International Business Management?
BTEC (QCF) National Diploma Level 3 plus A Level
By studying International Business Management at Edinburgh Napier University, you will become an expert in how consumer behaviour impacts businesses at a global level.
You will be able to put your learnings into practice and gain skills in communication, teamworking and leadership.
You will learn how to work cross-culturally as well as cross functionally within marketing, human resource management and economic functions and be able to understand a range of international business challenges and how these can be resolved.
You will develop excellent written skills and be able to present to a range of stakeholders and audiences.
On completion of your degree, you will likely go onto a role within strategic management, financial services, marketing, human resources, tourism or global exports and imports within the private, public or third sector.
If you are a keen problem solver who enjoys collaborating with others, then this might be the right course for you.
Based on the organisation’s goals, a business development manager will identify new business opportunities, increase the organisation's growth through strategy implementation, helping them to expand their reach on a global scale and introducing the business into new markets.
You will have excellent communication, negotiation, problem solving and leadership skills to be able to work collaboratively across many functions within the organisation whilst also managing external business relationships.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-intercultural-business-communication-and-marketing-management-undergraduate-fulltime:
Being able to communicate effectively and appropriately with people from diverse cultural backgrounds is a vital skill in an increasingly interconnected world, particularly in the area of Marketing.
Our innovative Intercultural Business Communication and Marketing Management degree is unique in the country and offers you the opportunity to develop a desirable skillset applied to a specific sector.
You will gain a deep understanding of culture and its role in business communications and interactions, from team meetings, to negotiations, to marketing campaigns.
Intercultural Business Communication combines the study of ‘cultures’ (national, regional, local, ethnic, religious, gender, organisational, vocational) and different forms of communication with the development of your own intercultural skills, including self-awareness, openness, curiosity, adaptability, and respect for others.
You will apply this understanding of culture and intercultural communication to different areas of Marketing Management, including social media marketing, digital analytics, consumer behaviour, branding and effective market research.
Our programmes are unique.
We offer the only undergraduate programmes in Intercultural Business Communication in Scotland, and the only joint honours IBC and Marketing Management programme in the UK.
As a diverse, multicultural city, attracting thousands of international students, business travellers, and tourists, Edinburgh is the perfect location to study Intercultural Business Communication.
We are the #1 modern university in Scotland (THE World University Rankings 2025) and w e are a top 5 UK modern university for Career and Graduate Prospects (Guardian Good University Guide 2024).
N801
The course has lots of real-world applications which will help me after university.
The staff couldn’t have been better and have been incredibly helpful through every step.
Roberto Mackenzie, Intercultural Business Communication & Marketing Management
In your first two years you will gain a solid understanding of core concepts and approaches in both Intercultural Business Communication and Marketing Management, and you will apply these to a wide range of ‘real world’ case studies and scenarios.
This will prepare you for year 3, when you will have the opportunity to study abroad or take up a work placement in the UK .
Both offer exciting opportunities to apply and enhance your grasp of intercultural business communication and marketing management .
You will also acquire intercultural skills by living and studying abroad or working with new colleagues and clients in a relevant sector .
These experiences, whether work-based or through study abroad, are highly valued by employers .
In your final year, you will specialise in areas of particular interest by undertaking your own research projects, including a dissertation .
Introduction to Intercultural Business Communication
Intercultural Organisational Management
World History: Inter national Contexts
Marketing 1
Consumer Behaviour
Academic Skills for Business Management
Intercultural Communication for the Global Workplace
Exploring Culture
European History & Politics for the 21 st Century
Market Research in Practice
Marketing Communication Tools
Social Media Marketing
Migration, Mobilities and Intercultural Competence
International Marketing
Brand Management
Work Placement OR Study Abroad OR Live Project + Option
Communication in International Management
Cultural Studies: Working Lives
Digital Marketing Analytics
Marketing Management in Practice
Dissertation
BBBC
BCCC
CCC
H2, H3, H3, H3
Minimum grades DMM (Distinction, Merit, Merit).
Minimum grades D*D* (Distinction*, Distinction*)
Minimum grades DM (Distinction, Merit).
A Level grade C
Pass, with grade C or above in the core component.
Award of Diploma with 27 points overall with three HL subjects at grades 6, 5, 4
Other HNC subjects may be considered for year 1 entry where a C in the graded unit is achieved.
Pass HNC in Marketing, Marketing Communication or Business with grade B at SCQF Level 7 in the graded unit.
BBC
BBB
As all learning, teaching and assessment activities are conducted in English, if your first language is not English you must have a minimum IELTS score of 6.5 with all four elements having a score of at least 6.0
By studying Intercultural Business Communication and Marketing Management at Edinburgh Napier University, you will become an expert in culture and how this relates to and impacts on business communication in international, national and local contexts.
As well as understanding the role of ‘national’ cultures and cultural differences in business interactions, you will learn how, for example, religion and gender shape communication, which is useful for working within a range of sectors, including Marketing.
You will develop your own intercultural awareness and competence, becoming an effective team player with strong communication and problem solving skills.
You will likely go on to work in the public, private and international business sectors, within roles such as marketing management, market research, digital and social media marketing, communications, intercultural training and education, international relations , human resource management, and travel and tourism.
As a communications officer, you will create, tailor and deliver messages on behalf of an organisation, managing internal or external communication to maintain brand reputation.
You may deal with the media, draft press releases and also manage social media and digital accounts, such as the website.
You will keep information flowing smoothly inside and outside of the business, dealing with strategy and tactics, as well as carrying out hands-on activities.
Working in this role will mean you have excellent communication, leadership and problem-solving skills, with strong digital and writing abilities.
Daily tasks and responsibilities within this role include:

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-intercultural-business-communication-and-tourism-management-undergraduate-fulltime:
Being able to communicate effectively and appropriately with people from diverse cultural backgrounds is a vital skill in an increasingly interconnected world, particularly in the area of Tourism.
Our innovative Intercultural Business Communication and Tourism Management degree is unique in the country and offers you the opportunity to develop a desirable skillset applied to a specific sector.
You will gain a deep understanding of culture and its role in business communications and interactions, from team meetings, to negotiations, to welcoming visitors, to marketing campaigns.
Intercultural Business Communication combines the study of ‘cultures’ (national, regional, local, ethnic, religious, gender, organisational, vocational) and different forms of communication with the development of your own intercultural skills, including self-awareness, openness, curiosity, adaptability, and respect for others.
You will apply this understanding of culture and intercultural communication to different areas of Tourism Management, including visitor attraction management, tourism impacts and sustainable development, and international tourism policy and planning.
N802
I was looking for a course that connected international studies, tourism, and culture.
ENU supports its students especially when it comes to internship advice and students’ personal growth.
Natalia Meller, BA (Hons) Intercultural Business Communication and Tourism Management Student
Choose a joint degree in Intercultural Business Communication and Tourism Management, and immerse yourself in a balanced curriculum, dedicating equal time to both subjects while learning under the guidance of academic and industry experts.
In your first two years you will gain a solid understanding of core concepts and approaches in both Intercultural Business Communication and Tourism Management, and you will apply these to a wide range of ‘real world’ case studies and scenarios.
This will prepare you for year 3, when you will have the opportunity to study abroad or take up a work placement in the UK.
Both offer exciting opportunities to apply and enhance your grasp of intercultural business communication and tourism management.
You will also acquire intercultural skills by living and studying abroad or working with new colleagues and clients in a relevant sector.
These experiences, whether work-based or through study abroad, are highly valued by employers.
In your final year, you will specialise in areas of particular interest by undertaking your own research projects, including a dissertation.
World History: International Contexts
Introduction to International Hospitality, Tourism & Events
Global Tourism Distribution
Tourism Impacts and Sustainable Development
Facilities Planning for Hospitality, Tourism and Events
Visitor Attraction Management
International Tourism Policy and Planning
Global Service Management
Leadership Innovation and Technology for Tourism, Hospitality and Events
International Destination Marketing and Management
H2, H3, H3, H3 at Higher Level
Pass HNC in Activity Tourism, Travel & Tourism or Business with grade B at SCQF Level 7 in the graded unit.
As all learning, teaching and assessment activities are conducted in English, if your first language is not English you must have a minimum IELTS score of 6.5 with all four elements having a score of at least 6.0.
By studying Intercultural Business Communication and Tourism Management at Edinburgh Napier University, you will become an expert in culture and how this relates to and impacts on business communication in international, national, and local contexts.
As well as understanding the role of ‘national’ cultures and cultural differences in business interactions, you will learn how, for example, religion and gender shape communication, which is useful for working within a range of sectors, including Tourism.
You will likely go on to work in the public, private and international business sectors, within roles such as destination development, visitor attraction management, cultural services management, hospitality management, marketing and sales, international relations, intercultural training and education, and human resource management.
As an International Hospitality Manager, you will be responsible for overseeing global hospitality operations on an international scale.
You may work for hotels, resorts or restaurants.
You will ensure daily operations run smoothly, ensuring guest satisfaction and financial performance.
You will likely coordinate with different departments, manage budgets, and make strategic decisions to enhance guest experience.
Within this role, you will work with people and services with various backgrounds and cultures.
Daily tasks and responsibilities you may carry out within this role include:

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/mba-m-b-a-postgraduate-online-learning:
It’s a flexible course delivered online (part-time) that will build on your work experience and enhance it with contemporary business theory.
You may wish to combine your MBA with one of the following specialisms to reflect your area of interest:
Studying an MBA online has been wonderful.
The support and ease of transitioning into online learning was very positive.
The workload was reasonable, and the assistance provided was invaluable.
Elissa Thomas
MBA Graduate
Ramgopaul Roop explains how this course changed his way of looking at things and gave him the ability to apply learning to his day-to-day life.
Our online (part-time) MBA is designed to deliver accessible, creative and flexible postgraduate business and management education and offers choice in how, when and where you study, as well as the option to pursue a specialism.
The curriculum is tailored for the dynamic contemporary global business environment, focusing on developing skills in leadership, and the application of conceptual management theories to current practice.
For the award of MBA you must successfully pass all eight modules, giving a total of 180 credits.
What are the entry requirements for MBA?
Can I get admission into MBA based on my working experience in this sector?
The Online MBA will provide you with the opportunity to realise your full career potential.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/mba-marketing-postgraduate-online-learning:
It's a flexible course delivered online (part-time) that will build on your work experience and allow you to combine your MBA with a specialism in marketing to reflect your area of interest.
Our online (part-time) MBA with a specialism in marketing is designed to deliver accessible, creative and flexible postgraduate business and management education and offers choice in how, when and where you study.
We have tailored the content of the course for dynamic global businesses, teaching you to focus on developing skills in leadership, and applying management theories to issues faced by business.
You’ll also learn how to address issues with critical thinking, strategic reasoning and using creative problem solving techniques that help you to innovate.
For the award of MBA (Marketing) you must successfully pass all eight modules, giving a total of 180 credits.
What are the entry requirements for Marketing?
Can I get admission into Marketing based on my working experience in this sector?
Students use the MBA Programme to consolidate their knowledge and progress in their organisational/industry career ladder or as an opportunity to change career direction.
In recent years, our MBA graduates have gone on to build careers in a range of industries in the public, private and voluntary/not-for-profit sectors.
Alternatively, you will be eligible to progress to doctoral- level study at the University or to seek entry to doctoral-level study at another higher education institution.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/mba-strategic-project-management---postgraduate-fulltime:
Looking to enhance your qualifications in strategic project management?
The Edinburgh Napier MBA (Strategic Project Management) appeals to individuals from a wide range of backgrounds and experiences.
Whether you're a recent graduate, a business professional with many years of experience, or a specialist manager seeking to formalize your experiential knowledge, this program is for you.
It holds equal relevance for professionals in the public, private, and third sectors.
Imagine consolidating your experiential knowledge with a formal qualification, and gaining advanced skills in strategic project management.
Our MBA program is designed to meet the needs of today's dynamic business environment, equipping you with the expertise to excel in your career.
Don't miss out on this opportunity.
Enquire now for more information and take the next step in your professional journey.
The university's support system has been superb; from the consistently approachable lecturers to the helpful support staff, coping has been incredibly easy, making the experience worthwhile.
Dayo Adeniyi
MBA (Strategic Project Management) Graduate
This programme will develop students’ personal and professional skills of independent thinking, critical analysis and reflective learning, proving you are able to operate in today’s rapidly changing global landscape and have the ability to solve problems at a strategic level.
In recent years, Edinburgh Napier MBA students have come from all sectors including professionals from health, social care, engineering, police, business consultants and those who have decided to take a career break or who wish to change career direction.
In The MBA (Strategic Project Management) you will study organisations, focusing in particular on the role of leaders and managers in determining the organisation’s mission, vision and strategic direction.
You will develop critical reflection and engagement skills to understand, apply and challenge the relevance of academic theories in a rapidly changing business  context.
You will to widen your perspective beyond the limitations imposed by your own experience and develop insights, critical thinking and the management skills necessary to function effectively in a management role.
You will enhance your interpersonal, cross-cultural, and complex problem-solving skills, enabling you to work more effectively with key stakeholders.
You will develop your knowledge and skills across specialist routes congruent with your career and professional development plans and goals.
You will apply subject specific knowledge to a range of practical problems in line with organisations overall strategic objectives.
Dr Melina Doargajudhur - Since joining Edinburgh Napier University, Melina has been appointed the Programme Lead for the MBA Strategic Project Management and Engineering Management programmes in the Business School; and is currently supervising a number of dissertations including live projects.
You will study eight compulsory taught modules, including Management & Organisational Change, Leading Strategic Decision Making, and Project Risk Management to qualify for this award.
Each module is equivalent to 200 hours of learning.
You will also undertake personal research and complete a final project in the field of engineering management.
This module explores advanced concepts and frameworks in strategic management, focusing on the analysis, formulation, and implementation of business strategies.
Through case studies, discussions, and practical exercises, students will learn to craft strategies that enhance competitive advantage and organisational sustainability.
The large majority of businesses today operate in a variety of economic environments and their leaders must make economic decisions taking into account market specific information.
This module covers the most essential analytical tools required for economic decision making such as: the concepts of economic systems, profit and utility maximisation, demand elasticity, market equilibrium, market structures, macroeconomic objectives, government policies?
(monetary, fiscal and trade policies) tools and their impact on businesses.Businesses also require funding from shareholders and lenders at the outset and subsequently need to profits and positive cash flows for investment.
They are in competition with other businesses for funding, just as much as they are competition for labour and market share.
On this course, you will learn to evaluate the advantages and disadvantages to the business of a range of sources of finance.
You will also learn how managers report on the financial affairs and financial position of the business and how financial reports can be analysed to evaluate business performance.
This module applies key concepts of logistics and supply chain management to provide you with an understanding of the strategic and operational roles of logistics in the global business environment.Emphasis is placed on global and pan-European systems for materials sourcing and product distribution, to enable you to learn how businesses configure their supply chains to compete in today?s major trading blocs.
Early topics identify key issues in global logistics and contrast international and domestic logistics systems.
Subsequent topics explore the main components of global supply chains and thelogistics activities involved in their management.The module begins with an introduction to the characteristics of global logistics and a discussion of the role of logistics in international business.
The module then covers the development of international trade, regional trading blocs and the logistics implications.
The rise of global marketing and global logistics is then addressed in the context of the international business environment, requiring the management and operation of inbound supplies and sourcing, manufacturing, global distribution channels, internationaltransport and international order management.
Contemporary issues arising out of the former that will be explored in the latter part of the module include the rise of e-logistics and new developments and organisational issues in developing European and global logistics systems.
The Capstone Project provides you with the opportunity to apply the understanding, knowledge, analytical and conceptual tools and personal skills gained from the taught courses to an in-depth study of a selected company.
It consolidates the learning, knowledge and skills that you have already taken place as well as developing your capability to undertake inductive or deductive case study analyses.
It can thus be seen as the culmination of the entire MBA programme.In groups, you will select a company and deploy the knowledge background acquired during your studies in a specialist area of business and management to conduct your research.
Common specialisms are: Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)/sustainability, entrepreneurship, HRM, innovation, leadership, marketing, operations management/supply chains and strategy.
The Capstone Project enables you to put into practice theories and concepts learned on the MBA programme and provides an opportunity to study a particular company and management specialism in detail.
This is a shell module for timetabling purposes
N/A
This module runs in both Trimester 1 and Trimester 2 and is worth 20 credits.
During this module you will have the opportunity to learn about different research philosophies and methoologies.
The various approaches to critically reviewing existing literature will be presented.
You will analyse either a quantitative or qualitative database utilising appropriate data interrogation methods.
You will critique a published case study.
This will involve developing and critiquing the relevant academic literature.
Based on the literature review and critique of the case study you will draw and design relevant and feasible recommendations on how the performance of the case study organisation can be improved.
This module will improve your problem-solving and team-work capabilities.
This module will not only be useful as a preparation for future MBA modules, but also when you embark on your career.
The material covered in the module relates to two broad areas of study:  the examination of organisational behaviour, including attitudes, perception, motivation, groups, teams and leadership; and understanding managerial processes, and the development of skills important in the management of people and processes - such as corporate social responsibility.
Change management is increasingly important and therefore you will examine the topic by looking at both incremental and transformational change, and the importance of power, politics and conflict.Focusing on the behaviour of people in a work environment the module places an emphasis on understanding the vital role and importance of people in the change management process.
You will develop an understanding of the dynamics of working organisations in a rapidly evolving business environment, specifically the significance of organisational culture.
This in turn develops your ability to plan and carry forward sustainable system-wide change programmes.
The module is essential to anyone wanting to work in business and / or marketing.
Throughout the module we will analyse the principles and practices of marketing with a focus on their practical application.
The module covers the marketing environment by evaluating marketing strategy and objective setting.
The importance and understanding of the marketing mix focusing on products, marketing communications, pricing strategies, logistics and distribution are dealt with in relation to the key role in marketing.
An understanding of planning and control is addressed.
By studying Principles and Practices of Marketing you will learn how  to make marketing decisions across an organisation, and how to devise and implement a marketing plan for a product / service of your choice.
The module involves the application of the core knowledge of project management to ensure the successful delivery of projects outcomes.
The aim of the module is to equip you with the essential skills, processes and tools to plan, monitor, track and manage schedules, resources, costs and quality.
It orchestrates the environment in which you can analyse and execute successful projects in the most professional manner, while benefitting from a repertoire of competencies such as critical thinking, teamwork, communication, problem-solving, conflict-resolution, negotiation, leadership and strategic thinking.
In this module, you will have the opportunity to scope and manage real-life projects within an assigned time and budget through a particular project life cycle.
You will further develop your collaborative skills by being part of a project team and build your Project Management skills needed to deliver and manage projects effectively in the modern world.
The focus is on project planning; scope; time and cost management; stakeholder and communication management; human resource management; risk management; quality and procurement management; integration and project closure.
The module also entails the use of a contemporary project management software package, and aids students demonstrate the concepts, skills, tools and techniques involved in Project Management.
The module covers the area of risk management in the project context and is designed to develop your managerial skills and necessary expertise in project risk management principles and practice.
The focus is on the importance of project risk management and the need for project managers to plan ahead with respect to this, at the strategic decision level.
The module also assists in developing your knowledge on essential risk management theory and concepts such as project risk identification, assessment, monitoring and control, to enhance your managerial, practical, critical and analytical skills as applicable to project environments.
You will learn to apply theory and practice, and how to critically evaluate project success and failure using strategic tools designed for project risk management, including qualitative and quantitative risk analysis techniques.
This includes case studies analysis used alongside the practical application to analyse and evaluate the steps to reduce risks at the strategic decision level.
Crucially, you will also be able to ensure your organisation complies with quality, corporate social responsibility and corporate governance, sustainability, and ethical standards.
What are the entry requirements for MBA (Strategic Project Management)?
In addition, applicants must have two years' professional work experience.
Can I get admission into MBA (Strategic Project Management) based on my working experience in this sector?
On successful completion of this programme you will have the necessary knowledge, understanding and skills to gain postgraduate-level employment in a senior management/leadership role within strategic project management, in the global business environment.
Alternatively, you will be eligible to progress to doctoral-level study at the University or to seek entry to doctoral-level study at another higher education institution.
Students on the Programme have used it to either consolidate their knowledge and progress in their organisational/industry career ladder, or have used it as an opportunity to change career.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-business-management-hrm-postgraduate-online-learning:
Our online (part-time) MSc Business Management (HRM) will equip you with the practical skills and expertise to help further your career in human resources.
During the course you’ll learn about business and human resource management (HRM) theory, including developing skills needed to successfully manage and motivate staff, real issues faced by contemporary human resource managers, and international HRM.
Sep Sep Jun
Whether you’re contemplating a career in business, or currently working and looking to upgrade your qualifications, our MSc Business Management  Human Resource Management will equip you with the practical skills and expertise to advance your career.
Sharing much of its content with the online (part-time) MSc Business Management, this course offers you the opportunity to pursue a specialism in HRM, opening doors to increased career opportunities at postgraduate level.
The course puts HRM in an international context and will inform you about contemporary HRM and how to apply this to real life scenarios.
You’ll gain a sound theoretical grounding in business and management theory with a focus on HRM and stimulate an enquiring, analytical approach to widen the application of your business management skills to support a range of career routes in human resource management.
For the award of MSc Business Management (HRM) you must successfully pass all eight modules, giving a total of 180 credits.
You’ll learn through a combination of self-directed independent online learning materials, online discussion topics and independent study.
What are the entry requirements for Business Management (Human Resource Management)?
Can I get admission into Business Management (Human Resource Management) based on my working experience in this sector?

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-business-management-logistics-and-supply-chains-postgraduate-online-learning:
Whether you’re contemplating a career in business or looking to enhance your qualifications, our online (part-time) course will equip you with the practical skills and knowledge you need to succeed.
Sharing much of its content with the online MSc Business Management, this course offers you the opportunity to study modules including global logistics and supply chains and project management.
This course is designed to deliver accessible, creative and flexible postgraduate business education and offer a choice in how, when and where you study - as well as the option to pursue a specialism.
This is a fully online course that will build on your existing experience and knowledge.
Our online (part-time) course has been developed to focus on the dynamic business environment.
It focuses on developing skills in logistics and supply chains and the application of conceptual management theories to current practice, giving you the expertise you need to take on senior roles.
We have tailored the content of the course for dynamic global businesses.
You’ll also learn how to address issues with innovative and creative problem solving techniques, with critical thinking and strategic reasoning.
For the award of MSc Business Management (Logistics and Supply Chains) you must successfully pass all eight modules, giving a total of 180 credits.
What are the entry requirements for Business Management (Logistics and Supply Chain)?
Can I get admission into Business Management (Logistics and Supply Chain) based on my working experience in this sector?
Jacqueline is the programme leader for our online business management programmes.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-business-management-marketing-postgraduate-online-learning:
Our online (part-time) MSc Business Management (Marketing) will equip you with the practical skills and expertise to help further your career in marketing.
This dynamic blend of business and marketing will provide you with a business education tailored towards employment opportunities in this sector.
Our online course has been developed for the dynamic global business environment.
It focuses on developing skills in marketing and the application of conceptual management theories to current practice, giving you the expertise you need to take on senior roles.
What are the entry requirements for Business Management Marketing?
Can I get admission into Business Management Marketing based on my working experience in this sector?
In recent years, students have come to our MSc courses with degrees from many different disciplines, and have gone on to build careers in a range of industries in the public, private and voluntary/not-for-profit sectors, specifically roles such as:

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-business-management-project-management-postgraduate-online-learning:
Whether you’re contemplating a career in business or looking to enhance your qualifications, our online (part-time) MSc Business Management (Project Management) will equip you with the practical skills and knowledge you need.
Sharing much of its content with the online MSc Business Management, this course offers you the opportunity to pursue a specialism in project management.
Funding available
Full postgraduate funding available for eligible British and EU students studying full-time, part-time or via distance learning, interested in leading innovation within construction and the built environment.
View our funding page for more information on eligibility and how to apply, or email Kirsty Connell-Skinner, Development Manager, k.connell-skinner@napier.ac.uk
Jun Sep
It focuses on developing skills in project management and the application of conceptual management theories to current practice, giving you the expertise you need to take on senior roles.
For the award of MSc Business Management (Project Management) you must successfully pass all eight modules, giving a total of 180 credits.
What are the entry requirements for Business Management (Project Management)?
Can I get admission into Business Management (Project Management) based on my working experience in this sector?

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-business-management-tourism-and-hospitality-postgraduate-online-learning:
Our online (part-time) MSc Business Management (Tourism and Hospitality) will equip you with the practical skills and expertise to help further your career in the tourism and hospitality industry.
You will have the opportunity to develop skills from the management of international business events to contemporary issues in hospitality management, this course provides you with a business education tailored towards employment opportunities in this sector.
It focuses on developing management skills for tourism and hospitality and the application of conceptual management theories to current practice, giving you the expertise you need to take on senior roles.
For the award of MSc Business Management (Tourism and Hospitality) you must successfully pass all eight modules, giving a total of 180 credits.
What are the entry requirements for Business Management (Tourism and Hospitality)?
Can I get admission into Business Management (Tourism and Hospitality) based on my working experience in this sector?

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-digital-transformation-management-postgraduate-full-time:
Our MSc in Digital Transformation Management offers a comprehensive curriculum that provides you with the knowledge, skills, and competencies needed to manage and lead digital transformations across diverse sectors.
Extensive market research highlights a significant growing demand for professionals skilled in digital transformation management.
This programme helps you develop the leadership, problem-solving, and decision-making skills needed to guide businesses through digital change.
You will explore real-world challenges and learn how to apply innovative solutions to different industry settings.
Typical entry points to this course are in September and January.
This programme is designed to meet the rising demands for digital transformation expertise across varying industries.
You will work on real business challenges through interactive classes, workshops, and industry projects.
Alongside your studies, you will have the chance to attend industry events, network with professionals, and explore future career paths in roles such as Digital Transformation Manager, Technology Project Manager, or Innovation Consultant.
The MSc Digital Transformation Management consists of eight carefully designed modules that blend strategic insight with real-world application:
Introduction to Digital Transformation (20 credits) This module outlines the core themes and developments that influence digital transformation across organisations.
It provides a starting point for further study and discussion throughout the programme.
Project Management for Digital Transformation (20 credits) You will explore how to plan, manage, and deliver digital projects.
The module introduces standard tools and frameworks while encouraging a reflective approach to leadership and teamwork.
Orchestrating Innovation Ecosystems (20 credits) Discover how organisations collaborate within complex innovation ecosystems to drive change and create value.
This module explores the roles of different actors—including businesses, governments, and communities—and the strategies used to coordinate innovation across sectors such as technology, health, education, and the creative industries.
Leading Digital Transformation (20 credits) Focusing on strategic decision-making, this module examines how leadership practices influence digital change.
It considers both organisational goals and the human factors involved in change processes.
Data Governance and Ethics (20 credits) Understand data-driven innovation, ethical technology use, and governance frameworks.
Learn how to apply responsible practices in complex digital environments.
Policies and Regulations of Digital Transformation (20 credits) You will examine how laws, institutions, and public policy relate to digital transformation.
The module covers national and international examples, and includes discussion of future policy challenges.
Final Project Development (20 credits) This module supports the preparation of your final project.
You will define your research question or business focus, consider relevant methods, and develop a structured plan for implementation.
Digital Transformation Management – Final Project (40 credits) Undertake a major project aligned to your interests or career goals, applying your learning to a real-world digital transformation challenge.
The module includes supervision and feedback from staff.
Academic team
The programme is led by Dr Paul Oliver , a Lecturer in Digital Innovation and Entrepreneurship with over 15 years of experience in research and teaching, focusing on innovation ecosystems, responsible AI, creative entrepreneurship, entrepreneurial learning, and intellectual property management.
Dr Paolo Gerli is an Associate Professor of Digital Innovation and Entrepreneurship whose research examines digital transformation, technology adoption, and regional development, with a focus on smart places and grassroots innovation.
Dr Fabio Da Rocha Neves , a Lecturer in Digital Transformation, brings over 25 years of industry experience in IT leadership roles and now researches digital platforms, entrepreneurship, and business transformation.
Dr Huong Nguyen is a Lecturer in Urban Innovation, researching governance in innovation systems, citizen engagement, and the transition from Triple- to Quadruple-Helix models in urban development.
Dr Neculai Cristian Surubaru is a Lecturer in Public Administration, specialising in public policy, governance, and sustainability transitions, with experience in consultancy projects for the EU and national governments.
Dr Clare McTigue , a Lecturer in Public Sector Innovation, focuses on transport policy, urban mobility, and sustainable innovation, having worked on projects including hydrogen-powered regional transport.
Assessments on this programme are designed to reflect real-world tasks.
Instead of traditional exams, you will showcase your learning through presentations, written reports, interactive discussions, and creative projects.
You will also have opportunities to receive feedback throughout the programme to help you develop your skills and confidence.
Guest lectures, masterclasses, and panel discussions may be offered as valuable supplements to the core curriculum.
While not mandatory, these activities provide real-world insights and enhance the learning experience.
What are the entry requirements for MSc Digital Transformation Management?
The entry requirement for this course is a Bachelor (Honours) Degree at 2:2 or above in a Business and Management or Computing related discipline.
Can I get admission into MSc Digital Transformation Management based on my working experience in this sector?
On completion, this programme provides graduates with the skills and knowledge, not only to manage either a digital transformation project or their own career, but also to be more employable across a wider range of sectors within the scope of digital transformation.
The programme will facilitate students in engaging with industry professionals, entrepreneurs, and alumni through engagement with networking events, guest lectures, and mentorship – both internally and externally.
This allows students to build a strong professional network, gain insights into industry trends and challenges, and explore potential employment or entrepreneurial opportunities.
A Digital Transformation Manager's main goal is to help businesses adopt new technologies and modernise processes to improve organisational efficiency, customer experience, and competitiveness.
They act as the bridge between technology and business.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-msc-digital-transformation-management-postgraduate-part-time:
This programme combines strategic, managerial, and technical perspectives, equipping you with the leadership skills, analytical capabilities, and managerial knowledge required to drive innovation and change in the digital domain.
The curriculum balances theoretical understanding with practical application, enabling you to engage with real-world challenges through lectures, tutorials, workshops and industry projects.
You will be encouraged to engage in relevant industry events, which will help you expand your professional network and gain valuable insights into your chosen field.
These experiences will enhance your preparation for careers in roles such as Digital Transformation Manager, Technology Project Manager or Innovation Consultant.
Lead academics: Dr Paul Oliver is a Lecturer in Digital Innovation and Entrepreneurship with over 15 years of experience in higher education.
He holds degrees in Contemporary Popular Music and Business & Management, as well as a PhD in Creative Entrepreneurship.
His research focuses on digital transformation within the music and creative industries, with specific interests in platformisation, responsible AI, algorithmic bias, data governance, start-up entrepreneurship, entrepreneurial learning, and intellectual property management.
This course is delivered on-campus and supported by lectures, tutorials, workshops, and industry projects.
A range of assessment methods are used in this program to enable you to demonstrate your achievement of the intended learning outcomes, such as:
- Formative assessments (Oral presentations, written summaries, and interactive quizzes)
- Summative assessments (Written reports, posters, presentations, practical artefacts)
- Guest lectures, masterclasses, and panel discussions may be offered as valuable supplements to the core curriculum.
A Digital Transformation Manager's main goal is to help businesses adopt new technology and modernise processes to improve organisational efficiency, customer experience, and competitiveness.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-global-logistics-and-supply-chain-analytics-postgraduate-fulltime:
Ready for a career in a dynamic and future-focused field with global impact?
Logistics and supply chain management have never been more critical, drawing intense public, organizational, and academic debate in recent years.
The global pandemic, port congestion, and Brexit have highlighted the importance of these activities, bringing them from the background to the forefront.
This program addresses the evolving debates around globalization, onshoring, supply chain configuration, sustainability, and industry/supply chain 4.0, making it a vital area across various industries and sectors.
Imagine becoming an expert in logistics and supply chain management, essential for shaping the strategies of global organizations.
Our program supports the achievement of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), particularly Goal 12 - Responsible Consumption and Production, and Goal 13 - Climate Action.
Engage with live business challenges and gain the knowledge to make a significant impact in this crucial field.
Take the lead in a dynamic industry.
Enquire now for more information and start your journey toward mastering logistics and supply chain management.
Full-time (available as Part-time)
This programme was life-changing.
The state-of-the-art facilities and supportive faculty provided not just top-tier education, but a true sense of community - a second home.
Highly recommended!
Renoy Samuel
MSc Global Logistics and Supply Chain Analytics
Focussed on sustainability and digital innovation, it prepares students for the challenges of the modern industry with international exposure, career growth, and a well-rounded learning experience.
Prachi Parate
The dynamic blend of lectures, guest lectures (industry experts), factory tours, workshops, simulations and independent study allowed me to explore cutting-edge research and practice in the field.
Richard Oladoyin
From data-driven decision-making to optimizing logistics operations, every module has deepened my understanding of the industry’s best practices.
Vivian Ayako Lyatema
The idea of understanding how products move from raw materials to our doorsteps, and refining that process, truly intrigued me.
Ogugua Joseph Umeadi
Gain knowledge and skills necessary for successful strategic supply chain management and logistical thinking, within the context of dynamic local and global challenges.
Source, analyse, and critically appraise various types of business data and practice.
Integrate cutting-edge strategic research and practice to achieve business transformation.
Graduates from the programme will receive an exemption from the academic requirements for membership (Chartered Member or Full Member) of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport.
Click here to find out more about CILT accreditation and membership.
Popular modules:
Sustainable Supply Chain Management Global Logistics Systems Data Analytics Developing Business and Operational Excellence
Lead academics:
Dr Eoin Plant-O’Toole is an Associate Professor in Logistics and Supply Chain Management at Edinburgh Napier University Business School.
Eoin also sits on the Governing Council of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport (CILT) Ireland and currently chairs CILT Ireland’s Policy Committee.
Eoin is a Chartered Member of the Chartered Institute for Logistics and Transport.
Eoin has been on national expert advisory panels (Ireland) for logistics and supply chains.
He has also published in a variety of international journals.
His research is not only focused on the policy level, but also the practical elements for industry.
Miles Weaver , Associate Professor in Sustainability & Supply Chain Management.
Dr Weaver has research interests in Sustainability, Strategy and Supply Chain Management.
Particularly, the use of systems-based approaches for cross-sector collaboration to accelerating progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals.
Dr Mahinda Bandara is an Associate professor at Napier Business School.
He graduated from the University of Peradeniya Sri Lanka specializing in Economics and obtained PhD from National Center for Ports and Shipping, Australian Maritime College, University of Tasmania.
His main research interests include transport pricing and econometric application in maritime and port and transport economics, and SDGs in logistics industry.
Dr Bandara is a Chartered Member of the Chartered Institute for Logistics and Transport.
Dr Matthew Smith is a Lecturer in Strategy at Edinburgh Napier University Business School.
Dr Smith's main research interests focus on the application of advanced social network models to economic, business networks, and data analytics.
He has applied network analysis to international trade data to explain the organisation of production in the modern global economy.
He is also interested in examining networks of interlocking directorates and the impact these have on firm outcomes and behaviour.
Prior to joining Edinburgh Napier University Dr Smith has worked as a lecturer in International Business at the University of Greenwich, and as a Postdoctoral Researcher at the University of Oxford.
This full-time course will take up to a year (18 months if you are a January start) to complete and will be structured to support the student through their journey.
You’ll learn by a variety of teaching methods including lectures, guest lectures, workshops and independent study.
The programme utilises a student centred problem-solving approach.
You are supported and encouraged in workshops to work collaboratively on analysing scenarios and cases.
There is also a live business challenge.
Operations management is about how organisations manage their available resources to produce goods and services and deliver them to their customers.
Operations management is an essential role for all types of organisations.
Manufacturing and service operations produce products or services and deliver them to the customers through processes.
To effectively manage resources and ensure a quality product or service for the customers, a business needs to achieve operational excellence through continuously evaluating and improving its operational processes.
This module will engage you in topics such as new product and service development, sales and operations planning, process technology, soft systems methodology, circular operations and reverse logistics, and risk and resilience.
Logistics is a key component in the successful operations of organisations.
In modern times its use to gain competitive advantage has increased in prominence due to a number of factors, including the development of e-commerce and omni-channel, the Covid pandemic, and the focus on sustainability and technology.
This module will engage you in a variety of content, such as:Global logistics; inventory management; warehousing; transportation; logistics relationships and third party logistics; network design and facility location; technologies to support logistics optimisations; logistics regulation and compliance; future strategies for logistics management in addressing the decarbonisation challenge, industry 4.0, and the physical internet.
This module aims to prepare you in delivering strategic change and transformation through the management of projects in organisations working in the Global Logistics Sector (GLS).
It will develop your understanding of the stages, tools and techniques required for project initiation, planning, execution, control and termination.
Using a variety of teaching methods, you will understand how to effectively plan and execute a project, whilst considering the wider context of the GLS in which the project operates.
The module will enable you to evaluate Project Management methodologies and their implementation in organisational settings of GLS.
You will have a greater understanding of how to manage change and the key levers which support the successful implementation of change projects.
It is increasingly important for professionals to lead and support both the diagnosis and implementation of organisational change projects in the complex and dynamic supply chain environment.
This module is also focused upon helping you to understand the complex nature of change, the different strategies that can be employed to manage it, the issues involved in the implementation of organisational change can face, and the key levers and mechanisms that can be used to both implement change successfully and to maintain change over the longer term.
Supply chains and sustainability have become a key focus for many organisations and broader society, as many countries and organisations around the globe push for decarbonisation and the implementation of the United Nations Sustainability Goals.
Organisations have developed an understanding that they do not act alone but are part of complex networks that need to act together in order to effectively address these issues.
This module focuses on key aspects of sustainability and supply chain management, such as:Introduction to supply chains/networks and their global influencers;Demand amplification and the Bullwhip Effect;Relationships, integration, and social network analysis of supply chains;Sustainable procurement and corporate social responsibility in supply chains;Supply chain design and performance measurement;Customer centric supply chains;Evaluation of supply chains to assess weaknesses and strengths on a wide range of issues, such as communication and relationships to living wage.
The Programme Leader talks about this brand new course and the skills gap within the industry it addresses
What are the entry requirements for Global Logistics and Supply Chain Analytics?
We will also consider CILT (UK) Level 6 Advanced Diploma in Logistics and Transport or CIPS Level 6 Professional Diploma in Procurement and Supply with 3 years relevant work experience.
Can I get admission into Global Logistics and Supply Chain Analytics based on my working experience in this sector?
Our MSc programme in Global Logistics and Supply Chain Analytics aims to provide the knowledge and skills required for effective logistics and supply chain management in the context of changing local and global environments.
The programme provides graduates the skills and abilities to leverage data, manage logistics and make key decisions on a business’s supply chain.
This programme will help you become an expert in critical analysis of logistics and supply chain performance.
It covers how to source, analyse, and critically appraise various types of business data and provide insights for decision making.
This programme will also provide you the tools necessary to integrate strategic research and practice to achieve business transformation.
Graduates will also receive an exemption from the academic requirements for membership (Chartered Member or Full Member) of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport.
This means you will be well positioned to advance in your career in global logistics and supply chain management.
A Logistics and Supply Chain Manager is responsible for overseeing and managing the logistics and supply chain operations that span across the world.
Their primary focus is to ensure efficient flow of goods, information and cash in a manner that is cost effective and speedy.
Often, they will be responsible for everything from lower-tier suppliers to the end consumer.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-human-resource-management-postgraduate-fulltime:
Effective human resource management (HRM) is recognised as vital to organisational performance.
Our programme will enable you to make a significant contribution to people management practice and develop a deep understanding of the changing role of HRM in the development and implementation of employment policies and procedures.
It is designed for those who desire a comprehensive knowledge and development of professional competencies in this field.
The focus on reflective practice enables you to make a sustainable contribution to HRM practice within your own or your client organisation.
Edinburgh Napier University is a CIPD Accredited Programme Provider and o ur programme has received a number of commendations of good practice from the CIPD, including our responsive and innovative approach to programme delivery and our research-informed approach to teaching
Reflecting the strategic role of HRM within organisations, the programme focuses on how the function can develop high quality leaders and practitioners who make a positive and enduring difference to the wellbeing of organisations and society.
It emphasises HRM as an integral part of corporate strategy and demonstrates its links with other managerial activities.
You will learn the specialist skills and expertise you need to be effective and influential in an HR role at both strategic and operational levels and acquire an in-depth understanding of key HRM policy areas such as organisational development, recruitment and selection, sustainable working practices, employee relations, diversity management, business analytics and change along with pivotal employment law regulations.
At Edinburgh Napier University we aim to be recognised as a University that is professional, ambitious, innovative and inclusive.
In our dealings with you we will act with respect and integrity.
We will create an environment to enable you to feel proud to be a student of the University, to feel confident, challenged and supported.
Our MSc in Human Resource Management has a 100% overall student satisfaction score (PTES 2024), up from 91% in 2023.
The knowledge, skills and experience I acquired during this course have set me up for my future HR career.
The course is extremely interesting and engaging.
I loved my time at ENU.
Lucy Laidlaw
MSc Human Resource Management Graduate
Our overarching philosophy is to follow the principles of practice-based learning and active learning.
We encourage you to adopt an evidence-based approach to learning and practice, drawing on research and theory to challenge the assumptions, processes and mindsets which drive actions.
This provides you with an opportunity to apply academic learning to practice and to develop a deeper understanding of what happens in practice and why this may happen, while being aware of the benefits to your ongoing sustainable personal and professional development.
This helps facilitate the transfer of learning and encourages you to make closer connections between the acquisition of new knowledge and the application of this to your current and future practice.
The programme is structured to provide you with a strong sense of programme identity, building your professional and scholarly skills, knowledge, and confidence throughout your student journey.
Aimed at both newly qualified graduates and managers already working in the field of people management, as well as those who see their careers developing in this direction.
The face-to-face taught learning strategy of the programme ensures you develop as a confident individual with advanced, high-quality knowledge, skills and behaviours that are recognised and valued by you, your employer(s) and the wider community in all areas of HRM.
This full-time course is based within the Business School.
We work closely with industries and draw from an extensive network of academics and practitioners who provide a unique blend of expertise in HRM, wellbeing and leadership practice.
When you graduate (and achieve all CIPD requirements), you can become a CIPD Associate Member and use the designation Assoc CIPD.
You may also be eligible to become a CIPD Chartered Member or CIPD Chartered Fellow, depending on your experience.
Our programme has been accredited by the CIPD for over 25 years, offering a strong focus on theory to practice and developing students’ knowledge and behaviours as HR professionals.
We have received several commendations of good practice from internal and external stakeholders including the CIPD, recognising aspects such as our responsive and innovative approach to programme delivery, our engagement with the CIPD professional standards and our research-informed approach to teaching.
The CIPD has been championing better work and working lives for over 100 years.
It helps organisations thrive by focusing on their people, supporting our economies and societies.
It’s the professional body for HR, L&D, OD and all people professionals – experts in people, work and change.
With almost 160,000 members globally – and a growing community using its research, insights and learning – it gives trusted advice and offers independent thought leadership.
It’s a leading voice in the call for good work that creates value for everyone.
Who is the Programme Leader?
Dr Laura Gerard is the programme leader for the MSc HRM programme.
Laura is an Academic Associate Member of the CIPD and fellow member of the Higher Education Academy.
Working in partnership with colleagues, Laura has a strong track record of prioritising student experiences to deliver modules and programmes.
Within the MSc HRM, we explore the SDGs and specifically sustainable working practices as we consider the role of contemporary organisations and their role within communities.
Exploring ethical and sustainable mindsets is vital to us and we approach this from a variety of viewpoints and topics throughout the programme.
Specifically, we will look at topics such sustainable leadership, green HRM, sustainable working practices, ethical practice in the workplace, emotional labour to name a few.
As you develop as HR professionals, it will be vital to consider and evaluate your own sustainable practices whilst also analysing and critiquing the role of HR and organisations in facilitating sustainable development of individuals, organisations and communities.
This is a one-year full-time course starting in September.
The academic year is split up into three trimesters.
The programme timetable compliments the part-time programme, specifically they run on a Monday 10am – 5pm and on a Tuesday 10am – 5pm during trimesters 1 and 2.
This enables and facilitates your engagement with the work placement opportunity to supplement your academic learning.
You’ll learn by a variety of teaching methods including lectures, external professional speakers, role-play, workshops, seminars and independent study.
A key feature of the Learning, Teaching and Assessment (LTA) strategy is ensuring an appropriate balance of theory and research alongside a practical application of the subject area with relevant work-based examples, thus encouraging you to examine the subject area and your practice from a more critical stance as is appropriate at Masters Level.
This approach is encouraged in class activities, through appropriate lecture/seminar style and format and high-quality specialist workshops.
We also draw on elements of active learning where we will encourage you to be actively engaged in and think about the learning process and how it affects you, personally and professionally, and how it might influence or enhance your learning and understanding of other modules and disciplinary areas.
Knowledge and understanding are assessed by a range of assessments strategies including report-style work based or case study assignments, portfolios, oral presentations, group-based assessments, online examinations and a dissertation.
Behaviour and competencies encapsulated are further assessed through development discussions, individual and group reflections, role play activities, debates and group work.
Formative assessment takes several forms, being either oral or written and includes tutor and peer feedback.
The strong focus on theory to practice and reflective practice are integrated the programme by acquiring professional accreditation this aligns with the employability agenda of developing professional highly skilled students.
You'll learn techniques and strategies that will enable you to critically reflect on your workplace experiences and create your own on-going programme of professional development.
Formative and summative assessment plus, a practice-based research project develops and measures your knowledge and skill-based development on a continuous basis.
We offer a voluntary placement, in the Human Resource department (or equivalent) of an organisation, undertaken alongside and integrated within the programme of study.
This is a highly beneficial opportunity for a variety of reasons and is especially useful for those who do not have any relevant HR employment experience.
This opportunity facilitates the development of employability skills, and reflective practice whilst providing access to organisational practice along with a primary data research source.
For the research element (dissertation) of the MSc HRM programme a 'problem-based learning' approach will be utilised and will help to ensure projects have the potential to add real and immediate value in your current workplace or placement organisation, thus enhancing employability and transfer of learning.
Integrating reflective practice within this research process will facilitate your learning and development.
We encourage you to engage with your employer, host organisations or contact(s) when formulating your research topic and potential future implementation of appropriate research-based recommendations for practice.
Moreover, you are encouraged to reflect on your own CV when deciding upon a research focus, in terms of your future career direction and employment prospects.
During this module, you will acquire knowledge and understanding of key aspects of Employment Law as they relate to Human Resource Management.
These will include statutory and common law rights, as well as the continuing influence of European Law.
In addition to the core legal provisions, you will also be introduced to the practical elements of Employment Law in the form of Employment courts and procedure; the institutions of employment law and Human Rights.
Other legal provisions that are essential for HRM will additionally be covered, such as Intellectual Property; Data Protection; confidential information and 'whistle-blowing'.
Health and Safety law.
The Masters Research Project module provides you with the opportunity to undertake an independent research project and develop advanced skills in planning and conducting the research, analysing the data, reporting on the results and writing evidence-based conclusions.
You will also develop skills in writing practice-based recommendations and writing a concise extended abstract outlining key learning and findings/conclusions and practice-based recommendations.
The module is undertaken in Trimester 3 (from early May to August).
It builds upon the learning and academic work previously completed as part of the Research Methods in HRM module, but work previously completed, will be marked only on the basis of enhancements and improvements made.
You will complete a practice-based research project, collect primary research data, and analyse and complete your project ‘write-up’ within a predetermined timeframe, which from start to finish lasts approximately 4 months (May through August).
Undertaking the project requires you to develop a deep level of analysis and understanding of a clearly defined issue within the field of HRM.
It allows you to develop your experience and expertise in planning, designing, executing and reporting a significant piece of individual applied HRM research.
The module also provides you with experience of the practical, analytical and academic processes involved in research, such as obtaining primary data/information from respondents, securing their cooperation, and analysing and evaluating that data using a method appropriate to the research design, drawing conclusions and framing practice-based and theoretical recommendations.
You will learn how to communicate complex ideas to an academic and practitioner audience and build information and arguments in a coherent, succinct and structured manner.
The module establishes a theoretical framework for the critical analysis of the employment relationship.
Whilst critically assessing the ways in which the rules that govern work and employment relationships are made and remade, the module also examines workers’ experiences of and responses to such relationships.
Viewing workers as an active agent within the employment relationship the module considers both individual and collective challenges to workplace arrangements and a range of management responses.
In doing so the module moves beyond explicitly managerialist understandings of the employment relationship in order to deepen understanding of the broader environment in which labour relations is practiced.
The module adopts a thematic approach to labour relations and begins by considering the nature of the employment relationship and labour relations as a field of study.
The module then covers a range of contemporary labour relations issues such as casualization, the platform economy and migrant labour.
In the next part of the module conceptual frameworks for better understanding these contemporary issues are presented.
Considering the roles of unions, management and the State in shaping such outcomes, the module assesses the causes, consequences and means of remedying critical workplace and societal labour relations problems.
Given the explicit focus on the employment relationship being a contested one the module finishes by examining conflict and ways of resolving it.
Key skills and competences are identified in developing policies and procedures and handling conflict (employee voice, negotiation).
Framed within the wider context of strategic HRM, this module includes critical examination of the impact of people management practices on organisational and individual behaviour.
The module begins with an exploration of the managerial and business environments within with HR professionals work and evaluates how HR strategy is shaped by and developed in response to internal and external environmental factors.
The focus then narrows to examine the changing role of the HR function, its influence on achieving competitive advantage, and the broader context in which it operates.
Further to this, you will explore the application of key contemporary people practices relating to fields of Organisational behaviour (motivation, engagement, employee wellbeing etc...) and Organisational Development, and their impact on both individuals and teams.
The module is also concerned with your development as a learner, of a business orientation, a concern with adding value through HR practice, and a range of skills pivotal to successful people management practice and effective leadership.
This includes critical reflection, problem solving and decision-making skills; enhanced IT proficiency; a range of team working and interpersonal skills and others associated with developing personal effectiveness and credibility at work.
The Research Methods in HRM module is delivered across 2 trimesters (Trimester 1 and Trimester 2) to the MSc HRM students (full-time and part-time) as a long-thin module, and is designed to provide a thorough introduction to research philosophy, methodology and design and how this can be applied in researching HR and people management issues.
The assessment comprises a research proposal (2500 words) where you plan and justify your topic area and evaluate the best methodological approach and design, considering both qualitative and quantitative approaches.
This is followed by a scoping Study (7,000 words) which forms the first 3 chapters of your subsequent masters research project (the introduction, the literature review and the research design/methodology chapters).
The module is divided into 3 parts.
The first part of the module examines the research process, deciding on your dissertation topic area and writing your aim and objectives and the research ethics and research integrity requirements and processes, to enable you to apply these principles at every stage of the research process; The second part of the module covers how to prepare for and write a literature review and critically analyse relevant literature.
In the third part, the module explores research design, philosophy and methodology.
You will examine both quantitative design, collection and analysis of data (using SPSS) and qualitative design, collection and data analysis (coding qualitative data, thematic analysis and other approaches).The module will prepare you to complete an independent practice-based research project in Trimester 3, and develop your knowledge and skills in critical reading, writing and evaluating research and other relevant materials, within your chosen field of study.
In this module you will focus on the theory and practice of contemporary organisational people management.
You will examine the underpinning theory and core concepts and considers people management skill development trends, processes and practices.
The module provides advanced content exploring academic/theoretical understandings of self awareness, self management, individual and organisational relationship management and social and environmental awareness to enable you to reflect on generic and vocational skill enhancement.
What are the entry requirements for Human Resource Management?
Can I get admission into Human Resource Management based on my working experience in this sector?
Effective development and implementation of human resource management (HRM) strategy is seen as increasingly important in achieving business success and positively influencing the performance and well-being of employees.
Studying an MSc Human Resource Management at Edinburgh Napier University will enable you to make a significant contribution to people management practice and develop a deep understanding of the changing role of HRM in the development and implementation of employment policies and procedures.
You will learn the specialist skills and expertise you need to be effective and influential in an HR role at both strategic and operational levels and acquire an in-depth understanding of key HRM policy areas such as talent management, recruitment and selection, employment law, organisational behaviour, and employee relations.
This will prepare you for roles that involve handling various aspects of the employee lifecycle.
It offers a versatile skill set that is applicable across industries, allowing professionals to pursue diverse career opportunities.
On successful completion of this programme, you will have the knowledge, understanding, and skills to gain postgraduate-level employment in Human Resource Management and related professions.
Your CIPD membership and accreditation demonstrates your professionalism and dedication to managing people within organisations.
You will gain a range of highly desirable transferable skills, including problem-solving, leadership, conflict resolution and mediation, ethics, and communication, which are valued by employers within multiple areas of the organisation.
Additionally, you will be eligible to apply or seek entry to doctoral-level study at Edinburgh Napier University or another higher education institution.
People professionals act as a bridge between employees and the organization, ensuring that the workforce is supported, motivated, and aligned with the company's objectives.
They focus on creating a positive work environment and managing various aspects of the employee lifecycle to maximize productivity and employee satisfaction.
These roles also put change management and people management skills to the test.
Responsibilities may include;

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-human-resource-management-postgraduate-parttime:
Edinburgh Napier University is a CIPD Accredited Programme Provider and our programme has received a number of commendations of good practice from the CIPD, including our responsive and innovative approach to programme delivery and our research-informed approach to teaching
Part-time (available as Part-time)
This is a two-year part-time course starting in September.
The programme timetable echoes a day release set up to enable you to study whilst work full-time.
The classes run on a Monday 10am – 5pm (in year 1/stage 1) and on a Tuesday 10am – 5pm (in year 2/stage 2) during trimesters 1 and 2 of both years of the programme.
This will prepare you for roles that involve handling various aspects of the employee lifecycle.
You will gain a range of highly desirable transferable skills, including problem-solving, leadership, conflict resolution and mediation, ethics, and communication, which are valued by employers within multiple areas of the organisation.
Responsibilities may include;

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-human-resource-management-online-postgraduate-online-learning:
Effective Human Resource Management (HRM) is now recognised as being a vital area of business and key to organisational performance.
Exploring areas of employee engagement and motivation, organisational development, learning and development, labour relations and the strategic environment organisations compete within allows you to gain an understanding of the complex world of HRM.
This online (part-time) programme is designed to enable you to gain a comprehensive knowledge and understanding of HRM theory and practice that will enhance your development of professional competencies in this evolving field.
Together with a strong focus on reflective practice, this will enable you to make a significant contribution to management practice within your organisational role.
Please note this programme is not accredited by the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD).
The support team are always quick to answer any queries on the course material and very courteous and helpful.
Laura Gerard, programme leader for the course has been brilliant.
Karen, former student
You’ll have access to specialist knowledge in core areas of HRM and business, grounded in the latest research.
You’ll learn from, reflect upon and apply this knowledge and understanding to your own professional practice in order to increase your credibility and add value to your organisation.
You’ll acquire the skills and expertise to confront complex issues in HRM, make informed judgements in the absence of complete data and communicate effectively with peers and senior managers.
You’ll develop skills of self-direction and originality in tackling and solving problems and act autonomously in planning and implementing tasks in the professional management of yourself and the people you work with.
The relevance of our online MSc HRM programme content, focus to HR professionals, and the high level of academic rigour, is demonstrated in our successful alignment with The Society for Human Resource Management’s (SHRM) HR Curriculum Guidebook and Templates.
SHRM is an international HR membership organisation devoted to human resource management.
Students can also elect to join the Society as student members for a nominal fee in order to enjoy access to the many resources and benefits offered through membership.
The HR Curriculum Guidebook and Templates were developed by SHRM to define the minimum HR content areas that should be studied by HR students at graduate levels.
The guidelines - created in 2006 and revalidated in 2010, 2013 and 2017 -  are part of SHRM’s Academic Initiative to define HR education standards taught in university business schools.
Due to the global cohort we have studying our programme, we have opted for this alignment therefore the online iteration of the programme is NOT accredited by the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development.
For the award of MSc Human Resource Management you must successfully pass all eight modules, giving a total of 180 credits.
You can pay for this programme flexibly on a module-by-module basis.
This means that you don't have to pay the full programme cost upfront.
This programme is delivered fully online.
Our virtual learning environment provides you with access to an extensive range of online resources, including interactive learning opportunities throughout each module, combining academic rigour with real-life examples and practical elements.
This will be enriched through online discussions with your tutors and peers.
We believe that learning is a partnership between teaching staff and you as and Edinburgh Napier University student.
Each has specific responsibilities.
As subject experts the module leader has prepared up to date and relevant online materials for you to work through and will provide you with direct tutor support throughout the trimester.
It is also essential for you to recognise your role as a student in an online environment as an independent and autonomous learner.
It is your responsibility to ensure that you plan and manage your studies whilst taking responsibility for your learning through reflecting on your progress and responding to advice and feedback from module lecturers.
• Human resource advisor • Human resource manager • HR Business partner • People and organisation development manager • Training and development manager or consultant
You can engage with SHRM to undertake membership and receive SHRM Certification if you meet their criteria, particularly useful if you are seeking employment in countries where the SHRM is the preferred qualification.
Lecturer in HRM and is currently the programme leader for the MSc HRM Global Online Programme.
Laura is an Academic Associate Member of the CIPD and fellow of the Higher Education Academy.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-human-resource-management-topup-blended-postgraduate-parttime:
The MSc in HRM (Blended) Top-up is a nine-month programme which aims to develop knowledge, competencies and professional skills that help learners address the challenges facing modern organisations.
It is solely focused on the completion of a Masters dissertation, allowing you time to develop in-depth knowledge and expertise around research methods and your dissertation topic.
We’re delighted to have teamed up with Acacia Learning, DPG and ICS Learn to deliver this programme.
The programme underlines the importance of practice-based learning and research by enabling you to investigate an HR issue that is located in a real work situation.
Edinburgh Napier University has been supporting students to undertake the MSc in Human Resource Management (HRM) for over 25 years.
During that time the University has received commendations of good practice from the UK professional body, the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD) , for their innovative and rigorous approach to design and delivery of the dissertation.
We have a 93% satisfaction rate for Human Resource Management (National Student Survey, 2022).
If you have a query or would like to apply for this programme please contact Dr Lesley McLean (Programme Leader) via email, in the first instance.
9-12 months
An indicative schedule can be downloaded here.
The programme aims to develop a comprehensive range of skills including information retrieval, critical reading and writing, effective research strategies, analytical and evaluative techniques and communication in a research context.
All of these skills serve to enhance credibility, confidence, professional competence, employability skills and help enhance career progress within the area of HRM.
It also aims to develop knowledge, competencies and professional skills that will help you address the challenges facing modern organisations.
By the end of the programme you should be able to:
The programme structure is blended online delivery, ie: live online workshops.
Its delivery is driven by a student-focused learning and teaching strategy that offers a unique blend of methods and includes features such as online workshops, up-to-date and engaging teaching materials, a virtual learning environment that provides content and opportunities for online interaction, supervisory support and online sessions with experts on research methods.
Through the dissertation, you will develop theoretically informed and practical recommendations that aim to provide solutions and improve professional practice in your chosen research context.
The dissertation will build your professional and academic knowledge and expertise around a particular area of HR practice.
It will enable you to build credibility and confidence within that area, thereby aiding your professional development.
What are the entry requirements for Human Resource Management Top-Up (Blended)?
The entry requirement for this course is a Postgraduate Diploma in Human Resource Management or CIPD Level 7 Diploma in Human Resource Management or Human Resource Development.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-intercultural-business-communication-postgraduate-fulltime:
If you are interested in mastering the complexities of intercultural business communication?
This course offers a solid understanding of intercultural business communication and addresses a range of issues related to cross-cultural business.
By studying communication in intercultural and cross-cultural business contexts, you’ll be well prepared for a career in international tourism, commerce, or marketing.
Imagine playing a key role in the global economy and world commerce, effectively navigating cultural differences between international business partners and clients.
With this expertise, you can enhance your career prospects and excel in diverse international environments.
Embark on a career in international tourism, commerce, or marketing.
Enquire now for more information and take the first step towards becoming an expert in intercultural business communication.
My experience has been great.
The diverse range of students made for a rich intercultural learning.
The faculty were always supportive, choosing this school was one of my best choices.
Irene Mosota
MSc Intercultural Business Communication Student
Programme Leader for the MSc Intercultural Business Communication
You’ll critically examine issues related to cross-cultural business behaviour, cultural dimensions, the key role of language, critical cultural awareness, and training for intercultural competence.
You’ll discuss the works of major intercultural researchers and the critiques they have received in order to contribute to a more widening debate of intercultural theory and research.
This course gives you grounding in the global economic environment and the opportunity to specialise in an area of business.
You’ll also study an in-depth introduction to research methodology, appropriate to undertaking research at this level.
With an international outlook, MSc Intercultural Business Communication attracts students from a wide range of cultural backgrounds.
By the end of the course, you’ll have a systematic understanding of intercultural business communication and competing theories of culture and communication.
You’ll also have the ability to critically and flexibly apply theoretical models to cross-cultural business contexts, including those of international marketing, commerce, advertising and tourism.
Learn more about how Intercultural Business Communication can enhance your business skills from our lead academics on the programme.
There is also a January start option for this course, but please note that if you choose this option the course, although not involving any more work than for the September starts, will last longer due to timings of delivery of the modules.
Duration: September starts: 12 months; January starts: 18 months with a three-month break over the summer (after the first taught trimester).
This module considers advertising as a form of cultural discourse reflecting perceptions of society and otherness.
It allows you to develop critical awareness of linguistic, rhetorical, content and semiotic approaches to the analysis of text, sound and image of different forms of advertising and to apply these to a variety of geographical, temporal and media contexts.
Throughout the course the emphasis is placed on cross-cultural comparisons.
It involves the following: Discussion of theoretical and methodological approaches to the analysis of advertising text and image in large diachronic studies and small samples; selection of advertising material in different historical and cultural contexts; intertextuality; representation of nationhood; construction of the 'tourist gaze' in destination advertising; use of stereotypes; language fetish in advertising discourse; impact of regulations on advertising creativity and production.
The module covers the various issues involved in the planning, development and management of those events specifically designed for the tourism industry.
Specifically, the module considers the sources of funding, budgetary and other financial issues associated with planning and managing an event for tourism; it examines the people skills, quality issues, employment contracts and other human resource development concerns that need to be taken into account by events managers and organisers within the tourism industry; it addresses logistical issues such as crowd control, venue selection, staging and lighting which must be addressed in event management for tourism; it considers the various aspects of risk management for events designed for tourism, specifically the financial, legal and ethical safeguards required.
• International Cultural comparison• Case Study method and comparative research methodologies• Tourism and Development• Tourism planning and policy• Competitiveness and responsible tourism development; • Ethical issues in international tourism• Cross-cultural behaviour in tourism• Global issues and value analysis.
This module begins with a discussion of the cultural diversity phenomenon, a day-to-day reality that brings both challenges and opportunites to today?s workplace.
Approaches adopted by practitioners to managing cultural diversity will be critically examined and compared, with a particular emphasis on intercultural team-building.
The module content then focuses on intercultural competence, an element that is central to the intercultural team-building agenda.
Perspectives and insights will be drawn from relevant disciplines, such as intercultural communication, cross-cultural management and education.
Participants will consider ways of cultivating their own intercultural competence as well as facilitating others?
intercultural competence development especially in work-based contexts.
Participants are encouraged to collaboratively create a peer-supported learning environment and reflect upon their own intercultural learning in this environment.
In this module, you will develop an in-depth understanding of Global/International Marketing theories and concepts and how these theories can be applied to analyse international markets and inform international marketers' decision-making process in the internationalisation of a firm.
Each week's lecture will introduce you to key theories in global/international marketing and how these can be applied in real international marketing cases.
In tutorials, you will apply theories covered in the lecture to analyse real business cases and come up with solutions to different problems.
You will engage with a range of international and Global marketing literature to learn important concepts in global marketing and develop academic reading skills such as evaluation and appraisal of global marketing literature.
Upon successful completion of the module, you will understand the global marketing process and be able to provide solutions to challenges that global/international organizations face under the current global business climate from a global marketing perspective.
This module will provide you with a thorough understanding of specific theories of culture and communication, cultural systems and dimensions offered by majorintercultural researchers and the critiques they have received in order to contribute to a more widening debate of intercultural theory and research.
Taught sessions willaddress the notions of culture and intercultural business communication, and theoretical frameworks about cultural systems, cultural complexity and acculturation.
There is also one session devoted to an intercultural workshop that helps you rehearse, through practical activities, the input from the previous taught sessions.
Communications theory, stakeholders, decision making process, integrated marketing communications, marketing communications planning, budgeting & evaluation, advertising, sales promotion, public relations, sponsorship, direct marketing, personal selling, exhibitions, packaging, online communications, b2b communication, internal communications
The module content will provide you with an understanding of a number of theories of language.
We will consider how language can affect thought; how language can be represented (for instance how it plays the role of a game); how we create meaning in dialogues and conversations; and how different ‘formal levels' of language are used in different media and text types, or genres.
The module content also considers the role of language in culture, different cultures (or ethnographies) of communication, and theories of globalisation and multilingualism.
We will discuss these aspects and how they apply to written and spoken texts taken from professional contexts in three hour seminars.
Examples will draw from professional communications, LinkedIn posts, professional interviews etc.
We will reflect on and critically evaluate how language is used, focusing on the impact and influence language has.
You will learn how to analyse a professional text, and create a professional poster to represent your findings.
You will have a session with the careers and employability team who will support you in creating a LinkedIn profile and writing impactful posts.
This will give you an insight into how language is currently used in professional networking.
You will then analyse your own posts as you apply different theories of language.Both the theory and practice will help you to be aware of the effect of language usage choices you hear and read, and also the language usage choices you make when you speak and write yourself.
This will help you to be more effective in your professional career.
What are the entry requirements for Intercultural Business Communication?
Can I get admission into Intercultural Business Communication based on my working experience in this sector?
The ability to communicate effectively and appropriately with people from diverse cultural backgrounds is a vital skill , especially in an increasingly interconnected environment .
This course provides a strong understanding of intercultural business communication .
The course also addresses a range of issues impacting cross-cultural business operations .
By studying Intercultural Business C ommunication, you’ll be well prepared for a career in international tourism, commerce, or marketing .
Our innovative Intercultural Business Communication postgraduate degree is unique in Scotland.
It offers you the opportunity to enhance your skillset within communications .
This course provides the specialism to play a key role in the global marketplace and provides the skills to effectively navigate cultural differences in an international business context.
An International Customer Relations Manager is a professional respo nsible for managing relationships between a company and their international clients .
Their primary responsibility is to ensure a high level of customer satisfaction, improve customer loyalty and develop the overall customer experience across different regions.
The role typically involves a deep understanding of intercultural communication styles to ensure effective interactions.
Managing i nternational a ccounts
Coordinating international teams
Global market research
Developing cross-border relationships

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/mba-business-analytics-postgraduate-online-learning:
In today’s data-driven world, businesses are eagerly seeking individuals with the expertise to extract meaningful insights from the vast amounts of data available to them.
Our MBA (Business Analytics) equips you with the knowledge, skills, and practical experience needed to become a business-ready analytics professional.
You’ll gain the knowledge and practical experience to effectively utilise descriptive, prescriptive, and predictive analytics to make sound business decisions and drive success within any organisation.
Our MBA Business Analytics program offers an innovative curriculum designed for those aiming for leadership and managerial roles in the domain of business and equips you with the data analytics knowledge, skills, and hands-on experience you need to succeed.
This programme aims to develop your interest, knowledge, and understanding of Business Administration and Analytics to:
The MBA (Business Analytics) offers an intuitive, engaging, and interactive learning environment.
Our high-quality, flexible online materials allow you to study at your own pace and place.
By engaging with the materials and participating in discussions, you'll exchange knowledge with fellow MBA students and develop valuable networking skills.
You'll receive guidance on effectively using the online materials and the importance of reflection to meet programme learning outcomes.
Our learning approaches encourage critical reflection and application of knowledge, ensuring you develop high-quality skills and attributes valued by peers, employers, and the wider community.
You will receive a dedicated programme handbook containing all the information you need about your programme and studying at the University.
You will also be given a student email account and access to our student-focused online information service, myNapier.
We will introduce you to our online learning environment, Moodle, which allows you to engage with various learning support materials specific to your programme and modules.
In addition to support from the programme teaching team, you will be assigned a Global Online Student Advisor who you can contact to access personalised support.
The programme includes formative and summative assessments, active engagement with other students and tutors, and the use of relevant learning technologies.
Teaching and assessment methods facilitate deep reflective learning through discussions, guided reading, independent research, project-based assignments, videoed guest speakers, case studies, and self-reflective exercises.
Modules are summatively assessed through various methods, including progress tests, essays, case studies, practical projects, recorded presentations, reports, and a final MBA project.
The online modules provides a clear roadmap, with materials such as video introductions, podcasts, case studies, self-assessment questions, and reflective exercises.
Formative feedback is provided throughout the modules to help you assess your progress and understanding.
You can take one to two modules per trimester and have the flexibility to suspend study for up to one year.
What are the entry requirements for MBA (Business Analytics)?
Can I get admission into MBA (Business Analytics) based on my working experience in this sector?
What can you do with an MBA Business Analytics?
The programme is ideal if you aspire to a new career in business intelligence, business insight, business analysis, management consultancy, or if you simply wish to make better use of data and make more accurate decisions in your current field.
The MBA programme develops your skills as a manager and leader.
It equips you with the knowledge and practical experience to effectively utilise descriptive and prescriptive analytics, equipping you to make sound business decisions and drive success within any organisation.
With this MBA, you are therefore equipped to take on leadership roles that require both a deep understanding of business data as well as the ability to manage teams, influence stakeholders, and drive organisational change.
According to the World Economic Forum, data analysts and scientists are among the top emerging job roles globally, and demand was expected to grow by 31% between 2020 and 2025 (World Economic Forum, 2020).

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-international-business-management-postgraduate-fulltime:
Our MSc in International Business Management provides the essential tools you need to succeed in the international business management arena.
Covering key issues such as intercultural business communication, strategy, innovation, global economics, and global marketing, this course equips you with a comprehensive understanding of modern international business.
Open doors to increased employment opportunities at the postgraduate level.
With a 94% overall student satisfaction score (PTES, 2023), our program ensures you gain the skills and knowledge to excel in the global business landscape.
Don't miss the opportunity to advance your career in international business.
Enquire now for more information and take the first step towards a successful career in international business management.
We expect this course to attract students from various countries and cultures.
This provides an excellent opportunity for discussion with your peers, allowing you to acquire and deepen your understanding of the diversity of international approaches to global business challenges.
You’ll be encouraged to reflect on the approach to international business in your own culture and contribute relevant examples in class discussions.
You’ll learn to creatively address the issues of global competition and sustainability while acquiring knowledge of international business and its economic environment.
You’ll graduate with an advanced understanding of the complexities of global economics and international business.
The Principles of Responsible Management Education (PRME) – established under the UN Global Compact – placs a clear onus on Higher Education to ‘transform management education and develop the responsible decision-makers of tomorrow to advance sustainable development ’.
Modules
After a brief introduction to models of national culture, the focus of the module is the HR issues and practices of organisations operating across national boundaries with a multi cultural workforce.
It covers a range of key HRM areas: (1) global manpower planning, recruitment & selection (3) international performance management, training and development; (3) comparative employment regulation, employee voice and the management of conflict (4) the ethical considerations specific to international operations.
These are explored through the use of examples and cases drawn from a range of international contexts and MNC practice.
Students are encouraged to reflect on the approach to HRM in their own culture/country and contribute to the consideration of similarity and difference.
Can I get admission into International Business Management based on my working experience in this sector?
By studying and MSc in International Business Management at Edinburgh Napier University, you will have developed a professional attitude and business mindset, allowing you to develop the practical skills to plan and analyse business strategies and come up with solutions to international business problems.
You will have strong cross-cultural communication skills and be a team player, along with sound decision making skills.
Careers you may pursue on completion of this degree will likely be working in the commercial or public sector in financial services, sales and marketing, operations or human resources.
As an International operations manager, you will be responsible for ensuring different departments of the organisation work collaboratively in order to achieve the global activities of the business and monitor the performance and output of different functions.
You will be able to adapt to the challenges of an international business environment and have excellent communication and leadership skills within this role.
Daily tasks and responsibilities will likely include:

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-international-human-resource-management-postgraduate-fulltime:
Our MSc in International Human Resource Management has a 100% overall student satisfaction score (PTES, 2023).
If you're interested in a career involving responsibility for the management and leadership of employees in a global environment then this course is for you.
Human Resource Management (HRM) is a vital area of business.
Successful people management, effective recruitment and a knowledge of employment law are keystones to the running and development of any company, whatever its size.
This course will develop your personal and professional skills to enable you to succeed in dynamic and complex international business environments.
It will equip you with knowledge and understanding of global perspectives in HRM and prepare you to work in organisations to develop and sustain competitive advantage.
You’ll learn the specialist skills and expertise you need to be effective in realising human potential and wellbeing in employment and gain an understanding of recruitment and selection, training and development, employee relations and performance management.
You’ll develop an in-depth knowledge of international HRM processes and practices and gain an understanding of international and multicultural business environments and the skills required to manage people in global organisations.
You’ll also develop skills which will enhance your personal effectiveness as a critical thinker and encourage creative and effective approaches to complex management issues.
This course attracts students from all over the world and provides you with an excellent opportunity to expand your understanding of the diversity in international approaches to people management through discussion with your peers.
You’ll be encouraged to reflect on the approach to HRM in your own culture/country and contribute relevant examples in class discussions.
Lead academic - Dr Vaughan Ellis
Our mission statement : 'Empowering our communities to apply business knowledge for positive societal impact'
The module begins with an overview of the various internal and external environmental contexts which shape organisational action (PEST forces) and consideration of organisational objectives.
The module then moves onto review competing conceptions of the role and function of management and their implications for practice.
Next, an introduction to the links between strategic HRM and organisational strategy is followed by a concise overview of strategic management models.
The module then examines the concept of strategic HRM, the variety of ways strategic HR decisions are made within different organisations, the implications for the HR function and critically evaluates the different approaches to aligning organisational strategy with people management practices.
In doing so, the module provides a critical understanding of strategic HR.
Distinctions are drawn between the different levels of HR strategy and the diverse directions of growth and international strategic choice in a globally competitive environment.
The potential ethical issues arising from strategic choices to internationalise the organisation are also considered.
The impact of the increasing use of technology within HR as the function attempts to strategically reposition itself within the organisation is critically evaluated.
Mindful of emergent strategies adopted by organisations to quantify the contribution of the HR function to organisational profitability the module also offers an introduction to Human Capital Management.
To support this end and in recognition of the centrality of financial planning to organisational success this module provides instruction on the preparation and interpretation of financial statements and data, including profit & loss accounts, balance sheets, cash budgets, capital investment appraisal and break-even analysis.
What are the entry requirements for International Human Resource Management?
Can I get admission into International Human Resource Management based on my working experience in this sector?
Studying International Human Resource Management at Edinburgh Napier University will enable you to make a significant contribution to people management practice and develop a deep understanding of the changing role of HRM in the development and implementation of employment policies and procedures.
In response to the increasing internationalisation of business, and the appreciation of the importance of effective people management, expertise in international HRM is increasingly valued by employers.
This course has been developed to enable our graduates to compete in this expanding labour market.
An International Human Resources (HR) Manager is responsible for overseeing and managing human resources functions within global or multinational organisations.
They must possess strong interpersonal skills, cultural sensitivity, adaptability, and a thorough understanding of international labor laws and business practices.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/study-with-us/apprenticeships/ba-business-management-ga:
The BA (Hons) Business Management Graduate Apprenticeship allows you to enhance your skills and improve career prospects while developing your business mindset.
A Business Management Graduate Apprenticeship will help you become a professional manager or leader – taking responsibility for projects, people, and services to deliver long-term success for your employing organisation.
You will develop your effective business and management skills by balancing theory with your day-to-day work in your organisation.
In this degree you will put learning into practice and will solve problems on real projects in your workplace, applying your learning to the world of work.
The practical knowledge and wide range of skills you will acquire through studying the programme will enable you to improve your productivity within your employer and pursue a broad range of career opportunities upon graduation.
Our Business Management Graduate Apprenticeship is mapped to provide dual accreditation with
Chartered Management Institute (CMI) .
This means graduates can also receive a professional
Level 5 Diploma in Management & Leadership, with no additional work needed.
CMI accreditation is internationally recognised and carries many benefits, including additional management training resources, a competitive edge in the job market, more applied skills, and a pathway to becoming a Chartered Manager.
Hospitality and Tourism Track .
We are the only university in Scotland to offer a specialist Hospitality & Tourism track on this programme, which directly addresses significant skills and labour shortages in the industry.
Apprentices who work in these sectors will complement their studies with industry-specific tutorials in relevant modules.
These tutorials are delivered by our acclaimed hospitality and tourism department, ranked as a top 10 Modern UK University for Hospitality, Leisure, Recreation and Tourism (The WUR, 2023).
Edinburgh Napier University’s Business School is accredited by AACSB International, the longest-serving global accrediting body for business schools.
This places us in the top 6% of global institutions that offer business degrees and recognises The Business School for its excellence in teaching, research, curriculum development, and student learning.
Day Release, Full-time
This foundation allows you to engage with applied learning within your job role, while also developing broader employability skills including professional presentation, team working, leadership, communication and problem solving.
In years 3-4, you will build on this knowledge and understanding and develop critical, analytical, creative, and reflective approaches to business and its environment, further enhancing your employability and leadership skills.
This Graduate Apprenticeship is taught over 4 years at our esteemed Business School, based in our Craiglockhart Campus in Edinburgh.
It is delivered across three trimesters over a full calendar year on a day release basis.
In trimesters 1-2 (Sep-May) you attend classes in person one day per week, studying 2 modules per day.
Professional Practice modules are work based and delivered during Trimester 3.
There is no in-person learning required for work-based learning modules , offering greater flexibility to work at your own pace during the summer trimesters .
As a Graduate Apprentice, you will be a full-time employee as well as a student for the duration of the programme so there are no separate placements.
All learning takes place at our Craiglockhart Campus.
It's also home to our innovation and enterprise centre.
The iconic Lindsay Stewart lecture theatre sits comfortably alongside the original building with Wester Craiglockhart Hill as a backdrop.
Other facilities include an extensive library with silent and collaborative study spaces, access to more than 100 computers, and a light and airy double height atrium with coffee shop.
For example, if you recently completed a Biology Honours degree, you can still apply for an Engineering Graduate Apprenticeship.
Our Minimum Offer Entry Requirement: BCCC.
National 5 grade C in Maths/Lifeskills Maths/Applications of Maths and English.
With a Business Management Graduate Apprenticeship from Edinburgh Napier University, you will have developed a professional attitude and business mindset, allowing you to develop the practical skills to plan and analyse business strategies and come up with solutions to business problems.
The combination of having your Business Management degree and Management & Leadership diploma from CMI will equip you with an excellent platform to progress your career in a variety of business areas including:

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/business-and-management/business-management/get-on-board:
The true success in the programme to date is the sheer social capital nurtured by our students externally, opportunities to build unique skills that cannot be gained in the classroom and the impact they make as ambassadors for Young Professionals (champions of board diversity – age, gender etc.,), their charities and the University.
The programme is a partnership of the Governance Forum and Young Professionals as Trustees.
"We are the first University to offer a Get on Board programme and we aim to forge relationships with our Third sector friends and partners across Scotland to extend the number of opportunities for young professionals."

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/sport-and-exercise-sciences/centre-for-developing-athletes/dual-careers:
2.56
Entirely online
Only open to elite athletes and support staff
4.
Applied and includes work-based learning
5.
Flexible; choose how many modules you take per trimester
Find out more about what it's like to study for your degree while you compete at the top level of your sport.
Yes, it's possible.
We don't think you should have to choose between following your passion and providing yourself with options for the future.
We believe that you can compete to the very top level of your sport and invest in your future at the same time.
Our current on course students range from Olympic Silver medallists to international rugby and football players, and all of them are successfully completing their modules while competing at the very top level of their sport.
It is challenging to study for a degree alongside your training.
The students on our course tell us that time management is the most important skill they have learned in order to study and train effectively.
Completing your degree while training will demonstrate to your future employers or investors that you are organised, efficient and effective, and can manage multiple projects at once.
These are skills seen on almost every person specification for jobs in the business world and beyond, and will be a necessity for success in your career after competing.
The BA Business and Enterprise in Sport degree is entirely online.
You will never need to come to campus, Edinburgh or even the UK throughout the whole of your degree.
We’ve done this because we know that professional sport is a global business, and we want you to be free to pursue your career wherever in the world it takes you while you are achieving your degree.
We’ve currently got students on the course everywhere from Australia to Sweden.
You can.
But careers as an elite athlete can be unpredictable and sometimes short.
We also think that competing as an elite athlete you are acquiring highly valuable and unique skills that are valuable in the business world once you have retired, and we want to give you the guidance to help you identify and maximise those skills, so you’re making the most of your development as an elite athlete at the time, and you don’t have to sit down and try and look back on them once you’ve finished.
You can choose how many modules you take per trimester.
If you know you have a big competition coming up you can drop down to one module or no modules for a trimester, and build back up to two when you know you will have less competition pressure.
Our programme leader Tom will pay close attention to your progress while you’re studying with us.
If you feel you are struggling or aren’t managing, he will be available to talk to you via email, phone or skype and can provide extra support.
You will also have all the support our on campus students get, including access to a named articulation advisor, who is a specialist consultant that’s experienced in helping people transition into higher education.
You will also have access to our student counselling and advice services.
On a financial level, you pay for the degree module by module, so you don’t need to commit to the whole degree before starting.
When they came to campus we pitted some of our on-course athletes against each other.
We put Olympic Curling Silver Medallist Greg Drummond against Edinburgh Rugby players Ben Toolis, Will Helu and Simon Berghan, and support staff John Spencer.
Greg taught the rugby players some key brushing techniques, while Greg got used to the high-life in a line-out.
Getting to know athletes from different sports on our online chat forums and building a network of motivated and like-minded athletes is a big benefit of studying while you are still competing.
These networks could help you launch your own business or get you the job you want once you've retired.
Find out about entry requirements, fees and how to start the next step in your career.
When the time comes and I am no longer an athlete, I have ambitions to continue working in the sports industry and the completion of this degree will help me along the way.
Greg Drummond
Olympic Silver Medallist, Sochi 2014

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-artificial-intelligence-and-data-science-postgraduate-full-time:
The MSc in Artificial Intelligence and Data Science at Edinburgh Napier University is distinctively practical, setting it apart from the more theory-driven programmes offered by other institutions.
This course equips professionals with hands-on, industry-relevant skills in data engineering and AI, ensuring graduates can immediately apply their knowledge to real-world challenges.
Instead of focusing solely on theory, the programme emphasises practical applications, such as big data systems, machine learning solutions and cutting-edge tasks, which are crucial for implementing AI effectively in any organisation.
Through Edinburgh Napier’s strong research and knowledge-transfer partnerships with industry, students tackle real AI problems directly related to their work environments, enhancing productivity and innovation from day one.
This applied approach, combined with a commitment to ethical AI, ensures that graduates don’t just understand AI concepts—they can use them to drive impactful, responsible solutions within diverse sectors, making this programme uniquely career-focused and practically valuable.
Students choosing Edinburgh Napier's MSc Artificial Intelligence and Data Science gain critical skills to excel in data-driven careers across diverse industries.
The programme offers hands-on training in data analytics, machine learning, and visualisation, preparing graduates to tackle complex data challenges with confidence.
For those aiming to transition into data science roles or advance in their current careers, the course provides a strong foundation in both theoretical and practical aspects.
Industry partnerships, real-world projects, and flexible study options (full-time, part-time, and distance learning) equip students with adaptable, job-ready expertise that aligns with current and future career demands in a data-centric world.
Edinburgh Napier’s MSc Data Science equips graduates with the skills to analyse complex datasets, build predictive models, and derive actionable insights to support decision-making in various sectors like healthcare, finance, business, and technology.
Graduates learn to manage large data systems, use advanced machine learning algorithms, and develop data visualisation tools that communicate insights effectively.
The course also emphasises data ethics and security, essential for navigating today’s regulatory landscape.
With a focus on practical, hands-on experience through industry-aligned projects, graduates are prepared for roles such as data scientist, data analyst, machine learning engineer, and data consultant.
This programme provides a well-rounded learning experience through a combination of lectures, practical labs, group discussions, supervision, and workshops.
Lectures cover foundational and advanced topics in data science, delivering essential theoretical knowledge.
Practical labs offer students the opportunity to apply this knowledge in real-world scenarios, using industry-standard tools and technologies to build their practical skills.
Group discussions encourage collaborative learning, allowing students to exchange ideas and perspectives on complex data science challenges.
Students receive personalised support through supervision, guiding them in both academic and research tasks.
Additionally, interactive workshops delve into specialised areas like data analytics, machine learning, and data visualisation, providing hands-on skill development.
This diverse teaching approach equips students with both the theoretical understanding and practical experience needed for successful careers in data science.
Assignments in the MSc Artificial Intelligence and Data Science programme are designed to reflect the types of challenges data scientists face in the industry, combining technical and analytical skills.
Examples include:
These assignments help students build a portfolio of work that demonstrates their expertise to potential employers.
The programme incorporates several practical elements designed to build students' hands-on skills and prepare them for real-world data science roles.
Practical labs are a core component, where students work with industry-standard tools (e.g.
OpenRefine, Weka and SPSS) and programming languages (like Python) to analyse data, develop machine learning models, and create visualisations.
These labs allow students to directly apply theoretical concepts from lectures in a controlled, supportive environment.
Students in the MSc Artificial Intelligence and Data Science programme benefit from a variety of specialised facilities that enhance their learning experience.
C omputer labs offer modern software and hardware resources essential for tasks in data processing, statistical analysis, machine learning, and data visualization.
Students might also work in the Robot Lab , where they can explore data science applications within robotics.
The library resources provide a comprehensive collection of relevant journals, books, and databases, supporting their studies with up-to-date academic and industry information.
These facilities provide students with both theoretical knowledge and practical experience, ensuring they’re well-prepared for data-driven careers.
The module is partly based on the first three sections of “Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach” (3rd edition) by Russell and Norvig.
The indicative content from the book is as follows: Introduction: What is AI?
History of AI and the state of the art.
Agents : An introduction to agents, their behaviors and structure Searching: Problem solving by searching, heuristics, local search and optimisation and adversarial search Constraint satisfaction problems: defining and solving CSPs Logic: Propositional logic, first-order logic, knowledge representation In addition to this the module will feature introductions to other AI techniques including neural networks, machine learning and nature inspired methods.
The module aims to present a balanced approach to the subject area by addressing both the theory and practice of Business Intelligence and reporting in enterprise systems.
The aim of this module is to develop a deep understanding of enterprise information systems and their role in business processes alongside practical skills in business intelligence reporting and dashboard design.
It includes:- Evaluation of the impact that Enterprise Information Systems can have within organisation business processes.
- As an assessment of the impact that they have on the efficiency and effectiveness of organisations and supply chains.
- Fundamentals of business intelligence, such as data warehousing and data mining.
- The role of performance dashboards in performance management and measurement in organisations.
- The sourcing and extraction of data and the analysis and development of intelligence.
- Understanding of current legislation on data privacy and ethical issues relevant to business intelligence in organisations.The module will use a range of tools to give students an appreciation of the nature of large scale integrated information systems and to practice data analytical techniques.
In this module you will:- develop an awareness of the use of modern computational intelligence techniques;- develop an understanding of a number of techniques such as evolutionary algorithms, neural networks, co-evolution, classifier systems and fuzzy logic;- gain practical experience of implementing and evaluating computational intelligence algorithms.
The aim of this module is to enable you to develop a deep understanding of the fundamentals of data analytics, and to give you opportunities to practise a set of popular data analytical tools.
Topics covered include:*Data Pre-processing – data quality, data cleaning, data preparation*Data Analytics – techniques of analysing data, such as classification, association, clustering and visualisation, including a variety of machine learning methods that are widely used in data mining* Post processing – data visualisation, interpretation, evaluationThis module will use tools such as OpenRefine, Weka and Tableau for standard and structured data The Benchmark Statement for Computing  specifies the range of skills and knowledge that should be incorporated in computing courses.
This module encompasses cognitive skills in Computational Thinking, Modelling and Methods and Tools and practical skills in deployment and use of tools and critical evaluation in addition to providing useful generic skills for employment.
This module will explore and develop data management and processing solutions that will work on dirty, complex, real-world data.
This module will examine the key concepts of data warehousing, data cleaning, and data processing in the context of business requirements and focus on how to combine these steps into a coherent data processing pipeline.First, modern tools and techniques in data management will be examined, with the emphasis on good practice and professional approaches of storing and handling data.
Next, the module will examine ways of cleaning noisy real-world data in order to make it suitable for data processing.
Finally, data processing and collation techniques such as Machine or Deep Learning will be applied to the data to extract structure and elicit comprehension of the data.
Throughout the module, advantages and disadvantages of using local and cloud approaches will be explored, alongside discussing common parallel approaches to facilitate faster solutions.In short, the goal of this module is to allow students to understand a data processing pipeline from raw data to final delivery.
It will cover:• Data warehousing and storage techniques• Data cleaning techniques• A discussion of cloud approaches• Data processing and collation techniques• An introduction to parallel data pipeline approaches
The work for this module comprises the completion of an individual research project.
Each student is assigned a personal Supervisor, and an Internal Examiner who monitors progress and feedback, inputs advice, examines the dissertation and takes the lead at the viva.
There are two preliminary deliverables prior to the submission of the final dissertation: (1) Project proposal (2) Initial Report including time plan and dissertation outline
Conversational AI has attracted increasing attention in academia and industry in the past five years.
There have been over 100 companies working on voice-AI or Conversational AI-based products, including the world’s most valuable brands (e.g.
Apple, Google, Amazon, Huawei, etc.) and start-ups (e.g.
Emotech, Alana).
On the other hand, there are global competitions organised by Amazon, which focus on state-of-the-art technologies in diverse conversational AI tasks, e.g.
social conversation and task-oriented conversation.
This module can help students learn about conversational AI, related NLP and ML/DL methodologies, and state-of-the-art research topics.
It also can provide students with the experience of team-level project work on realistic human daily problems, which offers a good insight into academic and industrial perspectives.
The module covers the following topics: • Data types and formats: numerical and time series, graph, textual, unstructured, • Data sources and interfaces: open data, APIs, social media, web-based • NoSQL databases such as document (MongoDB), graph and key-value pair • Techniques for dealing with large data sets, including Map Reduce • Developing Data-Driven Applications in Python The Benchmark Statement for Computing specifies the range of skills and knowledge that should be incorporated in computing courses.
This module encompasses cognitive skills in Computational Thinking, Modelling and Methods and Tools, Requirements Analysis and practical skills in specification, development and testing and the deployment and use of tools and critical evaluation, and providing useful generic skills for employment.
The entry requirement for this course is a Bachelor (Honours) Degree at a 2:2 or above in any discipline.
However, 30% of the modules studied in the degree must be Computing related.
If you do not have 30% computing modules studied in the degree but have a minimum of 2 years programming/computing related work experience, you may still be considered.
Alternatively, other qualifications or experience demonstrating through our recognition of prior learning processes that you have appropriate knowledge and skills at SCQF level 10 may be considered.
We may also consider lesser qualifications if you have sufficient professional work experience within a relevant industry.
There will also be an interview for this course if necessary, undertaken by the programme leader, to assess suitability of applicants from a non-standard background.
Recognised Prior Learning
Your application will be considered on an individual basis, taking into consideration your previous study and experience.
If you can demonstrate that you have appropriate knowledge and skills at SCQF level 10 you may be able to enter this programme.
You will be asked to reflect on your previous experience and demonstrate skills, knowledge and understanding equivalent to that achieved on successful completion of a bachelor’s degree with honours.
We will provide you with support in your reflective process through interviews and guidance on presenting your evidence.
The programme equips graduates with versatile skills, opening doors to diverse career paths across various industries.
Graduates may pursue roles such as Data Scientist, analysing data to uncover insights; Machine Learning Engineer, building predictive models; or Data Analyst, creating reports to support business decisions.
Other options include Data Engineer, maintaining data pipelines; Business Intelligence Analyst, providing strategic insights; and Quantitative Analyst, applying statistical techniques in finance.
Additional roles include AI Researcher, Big Data Engineer, and Data Consultant, offering specialized expertise to drive data-driven decisions.
With applications in technology, healthcare, finance, and beyond, these roles position graduates for impactful careers in a data-driven world.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-animation-for-games-undergraduate-fulltime:
Do you have a passion for games?
The Games Industry is the largest global entertainment industry, set to reach 256 billion dollars by the year 2025.
More than 2.5 billion people currently play games worldwide, and with continuing technological developments in hardware and software, gaming as a recreational, educational, or therapeutic pursuit, continues to grow.
The BSc Animation for Games degree is designed to provide opportunities for students interested in gaining the knowledge and skills required for a career in industry.
Studying Animation for Games will allow you to develop a portfolio of work, either in a specialist discipline in preparation for a role in a team-based larger organisation, or as an independent freelancer with a wider and more generalised skill set.
G444
Our BSc (Hons) Animation for Games graduate James shares his experience of studying the course
What are the entry requirements for Animation for Games?
T Levels
HNC - Pass with a B in the graded unit: Computer Arts and Design, Audio Visual Technologies, Art Design & Visual Communication, Computer Art and Design and Interactive Design, Digital Design and Web Development, Animation/ 3D Animation.
Advanced Higher
BTEC Extended Diploma
This course will equip you for both specialist roles and provide you with a general skillset for more general independent work.
Careers that you could pursue include:
The course provides specialized skills in animation specifically tailored for the gaming industry.
This can make graduates highly desirable to game development studios, which often seek individuals with expertise in creating animations for characters, environments, and special effects.
The gaming industry is booming, and there's a constant demand for skilled professionals who can contribute to game development.
The course typically involves practical projects and assignments that allow students to build a strong portfolio of work.
A robust portfolio showcasing animation skills is crucial for securing employment in the competitive gaming industry.
The gaming industry is not limited by geographical boundaries.
Graduates of this course may find opportunities to work for game development studios around the world, providing an exciting chance to experience different cultures and environments.
Also, while the focus is on animation for games, the skills learned in this course are transferable to other sectors such as film, television, advertising, and interactive media.
This versatility can broaden career opportunities beyond just game development.
As a Games Designer, you may find yourself brainstorming and generating ideas for new game concepts or features.
This might involve sketching out game mechanics, creating story outlines, or developing character concepts.
You will be also creating rough prototypes or mock-ups to test out gameplay ideas and mechanics.
This could involve using game development tools, paper prototypes, or digital mock-ups to quickly iterate and refine game concept.
You might be also writing and updating design documents that outline the game's mechanics, rules, story, level designs, and other aspects of the game.
These documents serve as a guide for the development team and help ensure that everyone is working towards the same vision.
Your role will also include collaborating with other members of the development team, including artists, programmers, writers, and producers.
This might involve discussing ideas, giving feedback on prototypes, or coordinating tasks to ensure that the game is progressing smoothly.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-computer-science-artificial-intelligence---undergraduate-fulltime:
Our Computer Science (Artificial Intelligence) course at Edinburgh Napier will help you gain a full understanding of computing tools, techniques, and practices across a wide range of application, and provide you with a thorough understanding of the theoretical and practical aspects of Artificial Intelligence and its applications.
The BSc Computer Science (Artificial Intelligence) degree is designed to provide opportunities for students to develop core skills in Computer Science and specialist skills in areas such as Natural Language Processing and Deep Learning, among others.
The modules will be taught by world leading scientists in specialist facilities, which contain high-speed computers with all essential software.
Our course will teach you the fundamentals of artificial intelligence that will propel you into employment after university.
Want to get more from your studies?
You can opt for a placement year to gain valuable hands-on experience working with a company of your choice.
I105
Read stories from students of Edinburgh Napier's Computing study area
During this course, you will develop a critical understanding of Computer Science and computational thinking, with a focus in your final year on the use of Artificial Intelligence.
In your first year, you will develop software design and engineering skills which will later be used to allow you to develop software algorithms and make use of Artificial Intelligence based tools and concepts.
In addition, you will develop a critical understanding of problem solving using a range of analysis techniques to design computations solutions to a wide range of complex problems.
In your final year, you will have the opportunity to study a range of Artificial Intelligence specialised modules, which are delivered by staff who are internationally recognised experts.
A year long Work Based Learning module is available for this programme which can be undertaken in 3rd year which consists of 60 credits.
In 2nd year, students attend timetabled Placement Preparation sessions which provides comprehensive information about sourcing a placement, tips for enhancing CVs, cover letters and interview preparation.
A Student Futures Placement Coordinator is available to support students with their placement applications and approving placements as part of the course.
Whilst on placement, students undertake work-related assessments alongside gaining valuable work experience.
If this option is chosen, the course duration will be extended by one trimester.
If students are not undertaking the yearlong placement, then there is a Group Project or the Professional Internship Module in Year 3 (one trimester) which gives students the opportunity to complete a project for an external client.
Find out more about Computing Placements here .
What are the entry requirements for Computer Science (Artificial Intelligence)?
If you want to get more information on the admission process, please get in touch with the Undergraduate Admissions team by submitting an enquiry form above.
Standard Entry Requirement: BBBB to include Maths or Science/Technical subject* at grade B.
National 5 grade C in Maths OR Applications of Maths .
Minimum Offer Entry Requirement: BBCC to include Maths or Science/Technical subject* at grade C.
*Science/Technical subjects - Physics, Engineering Science, Design & Manufacture, Chemistry, Environmental Science, Graphic Communication or Computing Science
BTEC (QCF) National Diploma Level 3 plus A-Level
Other HNC qualifications may be considered, please contact Undergraduate Admissions for advice.
Artificial Intelligence is one of the fastest-growing fields in the world of computing and technology.
Enrolling in this course equips individuals with the knowledge and expertise sought after by a wide range of industries, including technology, healthcare, finance, transportation, and more.
The course provides a strong foundation in computer science principles and AI techniques, making graduates versatile and in-demand in the job market.
Graduates of this program are well-positioned to pursue various roles such as:
For students interested in pursuing further studies or research in AI, this course provides a solid academic foundation and opportunities for independent research projects.
Engaging in research can enhance critical thinking skills, deepen understanding of AI concepts, and open doors to academic or industry research positions.
The demand for AI expertise is not limited by geographical boundaries.
Graduates of this course may find job opportunities not only in their home country but also in international markets where AI adoption is rapidly growing.
As AI continues to evolve and become increasingly integrated into various aspects of society, individuals with expertise in AI are likely to enjoy long-term career prospects and job security.
As an AI Engineer, you will spend good amount of time to gather and preprocess data from various sources, ensuring data quality, consistency, and relevance for training machine learning models.
This may involve data cleaning, transformation, and feature engineering to prepare the data for analysis.
You will also train machine learning models using collected data, adjusting parameters and hyperparameters to optimize performance and accuracy.
You will evaluate model performance using appropriate metrics, validate results, and iterate on model designs as needed.
You may deploy trained models into production environments, integrating AI solutions with existing systems or platforms.
You will ensure scalability, reliability, and efficiency of deployed AI systems, and monitor performance in real-world settings.
You might also develop and maintain software applications, frameworks, or systems that incorporate AI components.
This may involve writing code, debugging, testing, and integrating AI modules into existing software infrastructure.
Overall, an AI engineer's daily tasks revolve around designing, developing, and deploying AI solutions to solve real-world problems, leveraging their expertise in machine learning, data analysis, and software engineering.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/beng-hons-computer-systems-and-networks-undergraduate-fulltime:
Computer networks form the backbone of the information world, from personal mobile devices to social media and large scale corporate data services.
With this growing trend there is a high demand for accomplished engineers who can design, develop and maintain networked hardware and software.
This course focuses on key aspects of networks, computer systems and application development which will extend to database systems and human-computer interaction.
You will gain academic knowledge in areas of computer systems with the possibility to broaden your skills through a year long work placement.
H602
This course will allow you to develop an understanding of the design and evaluation of network systems hardware and software.
During your studies you will develop an understanding of the concepts and principles of network operation, including the storage, retrieval and analysis of data.
The current programme includes various security-related modules, such as: Scripting for Cybersecurity and Networks, Digital Forensics, Network Security & Cryptography, Scripting for Cybersecurity and Networks, Security Systems for IoT, Security Testing and Advanced Network Forensics.
The programme also provides students with a comprehensive education that encompasses both the principles of network engineering and the practical skills needed to secure networks against cyber threats.
In year three you will develop the ability to specify the hardware and software required for networked services in a structured and systematic manner.
Finally, you will learn to apply the concepts and principles of networks and network services to the development and delivery of networked applications
in year four.
Lectures and tutorials.
Mixture of practical assignments, essays and exams.
International study is available, and is intended to develop overall graduate attributes and global citizenship.
2:38
What are the entry requirements for Computer Systems and Networks?
Standard Entry Requirement: BBBC.
National 5 grade C in Math OR Applications of Maths .
Minimum Offer Entry Requirement: BCCC.
In this cutting-edge programme at Edinburgh Napier University, you will delve deep into the heart of computer systems and networks, mastering the complex architecture that powers our digital world.
From understanding the fundamentals of hardware and software to exploring advanced networking protocols, you will gain the skills needed to thrive in various technology-driven roles.
Such as:
By enrolling in our programme, you will not only study the latest advancements in computer systems but also acquire invaluable hands-on experience through practical labs and real-world projects.
As you delve into topics such as internet of things, cyber security, and distributed systems, you'll develop the expertise sought after by top employers in the industry.
Upon completion, you will emerge as a highly skilled professional ready to tackle the challenges of tomorrow's tech industry.
Whether you aspire to become a network engineer, systems analyst, or cybersecurity specialist, our program will equip you with the knowledge and skills to succeed in any career path you choose.
In your role as a Network Systems Administrator, you'll serve as the digital architect for businesses, ensuring the smooth operation of their communication networks.
Your responsibilities will encompass configuring, maintaining, and optimizing network infrastructure to facilitate seamless data transmission.
From troubleshooting connectivity issues to implementing robust security measures, your expertise will be crucial in safeguarding sensitive information and detecting potential cyber threats.
You will be a problem solver behind the scenes and tackling technical challenges.
You'll play a pivotal role in driving technological advancements and ensuring the smooth operation of businesses in the digital age.
Your role will be instrumental in enabling businesses to operate efficiently and securely in the fast-paced digital landscape.
As a Network Systems Administrator, you'll play a pivotal role in driving technological advancements, ensuring that organizations stay ahead of the curve in embracing emerging networking technologies.
Your ability to innovate and adapt will be key in shaping the future of connectivity and information exchange in the digital age.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bengbeng-hons-computing-undergraduate-fulltime:
Our computing course at Edinburgh Napier will help you gain a full understanding of computing tools, techniques and practices across a wide range of application areas.
Unlike computing courses elsewhere, at Edinburgh Napier you will be taught by world leading scientists in specialist facilities which contain high-speed computers with all essential software.
Our course will teach you computer programming fundamentals that will propel you into employment after university.
G401
This course will allow you to develop a critical understanding of the analysis, design, development, testing, evaluation and modification of reliable, maintainable and quality software including mobile and large scale enterprise systems.
This is the most general of our computing courses, and will allow you to explore a range of application areas from web programming and mobile apps development to artificial intelligence.
In addition, you will develop a critical understanding of the gathering, storage, retrieval and analysis of information in a variety of contexts and develop a broad knowledge of a range of theoretical and methodological approaches to the design of effective interactive systems.
You will develop a critical understanding of the human, social, organisational, economic, legal and technological factors which affect, and are affected by computer-based systems.
The School has several agreements with overseas partner institutions, both in the EU and further afield, providing varied and exciting opportunities tailored around your individual study and cultural interests.
Currently, links are established with universities in the USA, Canada, Spain, Denmark, Singapore, and Germany, where programmes are delivered in English, whilst additional links are planned with other European countries and Australia, New Zealand, and South Africa.
What are the entry requirements for Computing?
Advanced entry into Year 2 of Year 3 of this course is possible for students with suitable qualifications.
Minimum Offer Entry Requirement: CCCC.
In this dynamic BEng/BEng (Hons) Computing programme, you will explore the endless possibilities of computer science, from algorithm design to artificial intelligence.
You will get an amazing opportunity to dive into the realms of coding, software development, database systems etc as you unlock the secrets of this ever-evolving field.
This course may lead you into the following career paths:
You will gain a comprehensive understanding of computer science theory and hone your practical skills through hands-on projects and internships.
From building innovative software applications to optimizing complex algorithms, you'll develop the expertise needed to thrive in today's digital landscape.
Upon graduation, you will emerge as a versatile and adaptable professional, ready to make your mark in a variety of industries.
Whether you dream of developing cutting-edge software, creating groundbreaking AI solutions, or leading technological innovation, this course will empower you to turn your aspirations into reality.
As a software developer, you will be at the forefront of innovation, designing and developing software applications that power various aspects of our lives.
Whether it's crafting intuitive user interfaces, optimizing algorithms for efficiency, or building scalable backend systems, your contributions will have a profound impact on how people interact with technology.
You will be collaborating with diverse teams of fellow developers, designers, and stakeholders to bring ideas from concept to reality.
Your days will be filled with coding, testing, and refining software solutions to address real-world challenges across industries.
From mobile apps that streamline daily tasks to enterprise software that drives business operations, your work will enhance efficiency, improve user experiences, and propel organizations toward success.
As a Software Developer, you will constantly push the boundaries of what's possible, staying abreast of the latest technologies and methodologies to stay ahead in this dynamic field.
Your passion for innovation and problem-solving will drive you to create software that not only meets but exceeds expectations, leaving a lasting impact on the digital world.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bsc-bsc-computing-global-online-topup-ft-undergraduate-online-learning:
You will gain an understanding of computing tools, techniques and practices across a range of application areas.
Delivered fully online (part-time) means you can study at a pace and place that suits you.
12 - 24 months
Jun Sep Jan
The modules you will study are:
You can choose between three start dates (September, January, May) and typically takes between 12 and 24 months to complete, subject to your pace of study and module availability.
A range of topic appropriate assessment methods will be used across the modules including the following: group project, development tasks, reports, & quizzes.
What are the entry requirements for Computing Top-Up?
A HND in Computing, Computing Science, Information Technology, Information Technology Support Specialist, Computer Studies and Computer Networking (or any cognate Computing/Technical IT subject) with grade C at SCQF Level 8.
In this dynamic Computing programme, you will explore the endless possibilities of computer science, from algorithm design to artificial intelligence.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bscbsc-(hons)-computer-science-undergraduate-fulltime:
Our computer science course at Edinburgh Napier will help you gain a full understanding of computing tools, techniques and practices across a wide range of application areas.
Unlike computer science courses elsewhere, at Edinburgh Napier you will be taught by world leading scientists in specialist facilities which contain high-speed computers with all essential software.
I101
This course will allow you to develop a critical understanding of Computer Science, in particular the use of Artificial Intelligence to solve problems and software engineering skills to build software solutions.
During your first year, you will develop software design and engineering skills which will later be used to allow you to develop software algorithms ad make use of artificial intelligence based tools and concepts.
In addition, you will develop a critical understanding of problem solving using a range of analysis techniques to design and implement software that will solve a wide range of complex problems.
In your final year, you will have the opportunity to study a range of modules based on specialised topics within artificial intelligence, which are delivered by staff who are internationally recognised experts.
(Some options are not available to those who take a work-based placement)
What are the entry requirements for Computer Science?
In this dynamic Computer Science programme, you will explore the endless possibilities of computer science, from algorithm design to artificial intelligence.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-cyber-security-graduate-apprenticeship-postgraduate-fulltime:
With a Graduate Apprenticeship you can earn while you learn.
You develop vital industry skills in a paid job whilst studying for a university degree up to Masters level.
There is no maximum age limit and no course fees to pay for apprentices or employers.
This MSc Cyber Security Graduate Apprenticeship focuses on the fast-developing areas of networking and cybersecurity.
The work-based learning modules award significant credit for the application of course-derived knowledge to your employer’s systems or procedures.
The course blends hands-on technical knowledge with theoretical understanding, utilising a range of remotely-accessible resources to allow access to specialised computer configurations.
Additionally, you study modules designed to enhance your current skills using flexible learning material and practical activities which can be completed online or remotely.
Finally, a dissertation project is undertaken which further strengthens your cybersecurity skillset.
Full-time Blended Learning
18 months
You will spend 20% of your working time studying at university, and the remaining 80% applying your learning and developing your skills in the workplace.
The MSc Cyber Security Graduate Apprenticeship focuses on extending your knowledge as a working professional into leading-edge issues related to network and computer security technologies and processes, both generally and with a particular focus on the growing threats from cybercrime.
Remote systems allow you to engage with the practical activities of the course from home or work.
We also have well-equipped labs, which you can use if you wish to attend the campus.
Some credits are derived from your employment activities, so you must be already employed in a company which allows you to demonstrate your developing course knowledge.
Please discuss your current employment with the course leader before applying to ensure your role is suitable for the course.
Your final dissertation project will allow you to use the tools and approaches you’ve developed on the course.
This course is designed for professionals already employed in the area of computing who wish to develop their skills in cybersecurity and networking.
This course is delivered over 18 months via blended and distance learning.
In the first year, you study one module per trimester alongside a yearlong Advanced Professional Practice project, spending one day per month on campus.
In the second year, you complete a work-based MSc Dissertation in 6 months over two trimesters.
What are the entry requirements for Cyber Security?
In order to apply, you must be resident in Scotland before you start your Graduate Apprenticeship.
The premises you work in must also be located in Scotland.
As part of your application, you'll have to show that you have the right to live and work in Scotland.
The entry requirement for this course is a Bachelor (Honours) Degree at 2:2 or above in a Computing discipline such as Computing; Computer Science; Computer Networking; Software Engineering or Cyber Security.
Other IT disciplines may be considered, provided a minimum of 50% of the modules undertaken in the last two years of study were Computing related.
We may also consider lesser qualifications, or even none at all, if applicants have sufficient relevant work experience from industry .
Please note that to be considered for this programme, the candidate must already be employed in an area relating to the aforementioned disciplines AND have the support of the employer as significant credits in the course are based on employment-based activities.
Candidates must be resident in Scotland throughout the Graduate Apprenticeship .
In addition to this, their employer’s working premises must also be located in Scotland.
When applying to become a Graduate Apprentice the individual must have the right to live and work in the UK.
Can I get admission into Cyber Security based on my working experience in this sector?
On completion apprentices can build their career in jobs such as:

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-cyber-security-postgraduate-full-time:
Computer security is one of the key challenges in contemporary computing.
You will gain critical knowledge within the cyber security and digital forensic domains, combining academic principles and industrial practice.
The course is informed by current research in security and digital forensics and is underpinned by our experience with external partners in law enforcement, the cyber security industry, financial institutions and other knowledge transfer activities.
Course specialisms include network security, penetration testing, incident response, malware analysis, cryptography, audit and compliance, and host and mobile digital forensics.
The specialisation you gain in the taught modules is further developed through an extensive research-based MSc dissertation project, leading towards a mastery of a subject area and enhancing your particular specialism.
“I wanted to continue down the path of cyber security and secure a role I was passionate about having a career in.”
This MSc is one of a very small number of courses certified by NCSC, recognising UK universities which are excellent in Cyber Security and accredited by the British Computing Society, the Chartered Institute for IT.
2:21
Computer security is a growth industry and is vital in modern computing environments.
You will gain foundation knowledge in all the key areas of cyber security, both defensive and offensive, as well as post-incident response and malware analysis.
The digital forensic aspects of the course include network and computer forensics, allowing you to develop the knowledge required to conduct computer-related investigations across networks, systems, and other digital devices.
The School of Computing has developed close ties with industry, law enforcement, and the public sector, through partnerships with organisations such as Cisco Systems, Guidance Software, Symantec, NCC Group, NCA, Police Scotland, and many others.
This helps inform the course, and provides guest lecturers by industry experts.
Innovative research is also carried out in key domains by academics and PhD students in our dedicated cyber security and forensic research group.
Rich Macfarlane
Module Leaders
Rich Macfarlane Prof Bill Buchanan OBE Dr Thomas Tan Robert Ludwiniak Peter Cruickshank Dr Gordon Russell
The focus of this module is to provide a core understanding of the fundamental areas of cryptography, identity, and trust.
A key feature is to cover both the theoretical areas, while often demonstrating practical applications including key protocols.
The module key areas are: •	Privacy, and Cryptography Fundamentals (Confidentiality, Sec Models, Cipher types) •	Asymmetric Key Encryption.
Including RSA and Elliptic Curve Cryptography (ECC).
•	Symmetric Key Encryption.
Including AES and associated modes.
•	Hashing and MAC Methods.
Including MD5, SHA-1, SHA-256, SHA-3 and PBKDF2.
•	Security Protocols: HTTPS, SSL/TLS, DNSSec, IPSec, WPA •	Key Exchange.
Diffie-Hellman Method, ECDH.
•	Trust Infrastructures.
Digital Certificates, Signatures, Key Distribution Centres (Kerberos), OAuth •	Identity and Authentication (Passwords, Authentication tokens, Key pair identity, Multi-factor, Biometric Authentication).
•	Distributed Systems: Blockchain, Distributed Ledgers and Cryptocurrency.
Smart Contracts, Data Tokenization, and Transactions.
•	Future Cryptography: Zero Knowledge Proof, Homomorphic Encryption, Light-weight cryptography, and Quantum robust methods.
• Host and Domains: Trust systems.
Authentication with Active Directory Authorisation: Log integration and rights.
This module will cover a range of elements concerned with digital penetration testing and security testing.
Initial lectures consider important soft skills such as documentation techniques, reporting, the law, and risk assessment and management.
The practical skills and their related theoretical knowledge include operating system weaknesses, information gathering (both passive and active), and various ethical hacking techniques and processes.
Considerable practical focus is made on available tools to assist in auditing and penetration testing.
Aspects targeted include operating systems, common network services, and network-based applications.
This module will cover elements of operating system disk-level architectures, such as Windows and Linux.
This will allow students to study how operating systems store system and user data, and thus students will gain an understanding as to what information could technically be held on such systems.
This data could include user files, as well as user activities such as login session data, browsing histories, operating system manipulation, and general user interactions with a variety of operating system tools.
This understanding will be expanded through theoretical knowledge and practical exercises in extracting information from systems, using a variety of open source and commercial forensic analysis tools, and documenting the results of such a process using consistent and thorough evidential procedures.
This includes the production of event timelines, as well as the analysis of system logs, operating system state, file systems, and application data.
The module will also consider the ethical and professional issues related to digital forensics.
The aim of the module is to develop a deep understanding of advanced areas related to security and live/network forensics, with a strong focus on virtualised environments that will allow graduates to act professionally within incident response and in malware/threat analysis.
An outline of the main areas includes: •	Threat Timelining This involves networks and host traces around key threats, such as  DDoS, malware infection and data loss.
•	Host Investigation Evidence Gathering: Windows, Linux, Android and Mac OS.
•	System Architectures, Services and Devices.
Networked infrastructures (Servers/Firewall/IDS/ Syslog).
•	Network Protocol Analysis.
Advanced Network Protocol Analysis, Advanced Trace Analysis, IDS Signature Detection, and Security Threat Network Traces.
•	Log Capture/Analysis, and Time-lining.
Creating large-scale data infrastructure and analysis methods such as Big Data, SIEM and cross-log analysis .
•	Malware Forensics.
Code Analysis, Host/Network Analysis, Reverse Engineering.
Mobile/x86 architecture, Machine Code Analysis, Vulnerability Analysis and Sandboxed Analysis.
•	Malware Analysis.
Encoding methods.
Static/Dynamic Analysis.
Disassembly.
Obfuscation.
Behaviour Analysis.
•	Advanced Malware Analysis.
Anti-disassembly, anti-debugging, packers and unpackers, malware launching, malware signatures, and shell code analysis.
•	Data Hiding Data hiding methods, tunnelling, and disk encryption.
•	Current Related Research.
The aim of the module is to develop a deep understanding of advanced areas related to security and digital forensics that will allow graduates to act professionally in the design, analysis, implementation, and reporting of network security strategies.
An outline of the main areas includes:• Introduction.
Networking Concepts; Network Security Concepts; Network Threats and Attacks; Network Defense - Perimeter, Defence in Depth• Firewalls.
Concepts; Types - Host, Network; Technologies - Static packet filtering; Stateful packet filtering; Multilayer firewall; Architectures; Polices; and Implementation and Deployment.
• Intrusion Detection and Prevention Systems (IDPS).
Concepts; Types; Alert Monitoring and Sensor Tuning; behavioural analysis, in-line/out-of-line.• Access Control and Authentication.
Concepts: Trust and Identity; Attacks; Models - Access Control Models; Network Device Access Control; AAA, Layer 2; Device Hardening.• Remote Access and VPNs.
Concepts; Cryptography; Types - L2, L3 and L4/5; Technologies; IPSec and SSL.• Wireless Security.
Wireless Overview; Attacks; Encryption; Authentication.• CCNA Certification - Concepts.
CIA; Attacks on CIA; Data Classification; Law and Ethics; Network policies; Risk Management and Secure Network Design; Security in the SDLC; Cisco self-defending network; Secure Administration.• CCNA Certification - Secure Infrastructure and Extending Security.
Cisco Layer 2 Security; Cisco IOS Firewalls.
Cisco IOS IPS; Cisco VPN and Cryptographic Solutions; Digital Signatures and PKI.
The aim of the module is to let you develop a deep understanding of the framework that information security operates in, and to give you an opportunity to express this in the form of professional written reports.
Topics covered include: • The relation between governance models and frameworks including: ISACA’s COBIT and ISO Standards (ISO27000 in particular) • Overview of relevant laws and regulations: national and international, covering privacy, computer misuse and other legal issues.
• The role of organisation and human factors in ensuring a secure environment• The role of the professions; difference between audit, forensics and security management.
Professional ethics and codes of practice• Information security risk management and controls including, contingency and continuity planning
The entry requirement for this course is a Bachelor (Honours) Degree at a 2:2 or above in a Computing discipline e.g.
Computing, Computer Science, Computer Networking, Software Engineering, or Cyber Security.
Other similar disciplines may be considered provided 50% of the modules in the final 2 years of your degree are computing related and passed.
The continued growth in the current requirement for cyber security professionals means there are a wide range of careers which can be followed after graduating from the course, such as:
The programme develops a range of key skills currently needed in industry, covering areas such as network security, penetration testing, security monitoring, incident response, malware analysis, operating systems, network and computer forensics, virtualisation and malware analysis.
Materials from many professional courses are integrated into the curriculum, towards helping students prepare for sought after professional certification such as:
This course will help you to emerge as a highly skilled cyber security professional, ready to tackle the challenges of securing digital systems and networks.
Whether you aspire to work in government, finance, or technology, our MSc in Cyber Security will provide you with the knowledge and skills to succeed in a rapidly evolving threat landscape.
As a Cyber Security Consultant, your expertise in cyber security will be very crucial in safeguarding organizations against cyber threats and attacks.
In this role, you will serve as a trusted advisor to clients, helping them assess their cyber security posture, identify vulnerabilities, and develop robust strategies to mitigate risks and protect sensitive information.
Your responsibilities will encompass a wide range of activities, from conducting security assessments and penetration testing to implementing security controls and incident response plans.
You will often collaborating with clients to understand their unique security challenges and develop tailored solutions that align with their business objectives and regulatory requirements.
As a Cyber Security Consultant, you will stay abreast of the latest threats and trends in cyber security, leveraging your knowledge of industry best practices and emerging technologies to stay one step ahead of cybercriminals.
Whether its securing cloud environments, defending against ransomware attacks, or implementing multi-factor authentication, your expertise will be instrumental in helping clients navigate the complex landscape of cybersecurity.
Your dedication to protecting client assets and your ability to communicate complex technical concepts in a clear and concise manner will set you apart as a trusted advisor and partner.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-cyber-security-postgraduate-part-time:
The course is flexible and the option to spread the course modules out over a number of years, making the course ideal for students who are in employment.
2.5 - 4 years
“I chose to study at Edinburgh Napier University because, in my opinion, the course content was most relevant, well-structured and well-presented to prospective students.”
Our industry-informed course combines thorough coverage of academic theory aligned with extensive hands-on practical activities, supported by online and blended materials with virtualised lab environments that complement our on-campus specialist cyber security and forensic labs and facilities.
You can study in one or two half-day blocks per week over 15 week trimesters.
Students normally take 2.5 years to complete this course but you can take up to 4 years depending on your commitments and availability.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-cyber-security-postgraduate-distance-learning:
The course is informed by current research in security and digital forensics, and is underpinned by our experience with external partners in law enforcement, the cyber security industry financial institutions, and other knowledge transfer activities.
The course is a fully online version of the MSc Cyber Security on-campus programme.
All teaching and learning resources are online, with all assessments also carried out remotely.
There is also the option to spread the course modules out over a number of years, making the course ideal for students who cannot attend on-campus classes or those in employment.
“Edinburgh Napier is without doubt the premier institution in the fields of computer security and digital forensics."
Extensive innovative research is also carried out in key domains by academics and PhD students in our dedicated cyber security and forensic research group.
Our industry-informed course combines thorough coverage of academic theory aligned with extensive hands-on practical activities, supported by fully online web-based materials with virtualised lab environments that provide an equivalent experience to our on-campus specialist facilities.
This is a distance-learning course which you can start in September or January with flexibility in the number of taught modules taken in each trimester.
The distance learning course runs in parallel with our on-campus course and is aligned to the same three 15-week academic trimesters, including the assessments, which are taken in the same weeks as on-campus students.
As the teaching runs to the same weekly schedule, distance students who wish to attend some of the taught classes here in Edinburgh are more than welcome, but there is no requirement to attend.
The course content and assessments are fully online and are supported by the same staff as the on-campus teaching, leading to an academically equivalent MSc degree.
Assessments are all fully online including virtualised practical environments for hands on assessments.
The aim of the module is to develop a deep understanding of advanced areas related to security and live/network forensics, with a strong focus on virtualised and Cloud-based environments that will allow graduates to act professionally within incident response and in malware/threat analysis.
An outline of the main areas includes:• Threat Analysis.
This involves an in-depth analysis of a range of current threats, such as DDoS, Botnets, trojans, and so on.• System Architectures, Services and Devices.
• Network Forensics.
Advanced Network Protocol Analysis, Advanced Trace Analysis, IDS Signature Detection, and Security Threat Network Traces.• Live Forensics.
Mobile/x86 architecture, Machine Code Analysis, Vulnerability Analysis, Sandboxed Analysis.• Log Capture/Analysis, and Time-lining.
Creating large-scale data infrastructure and analysis methods such as Big Data, SIEM and cross-log analysis (such as Splunk).• Malware Analysis.
Encoding methods.• Data Hiding and Data Loss Detection/Prevention.
Data hiding methods, detection methods, tunnelling, and disk encryption.• Host Investigation Evidence Gathering: Windows, Linux, Android and Mac OS.• Current Related Research.
Networking Concepts; Network Security Concepts; Network Threats and Attacks; Network Defence - Perimeter, Defence in Depth• Firewalls.
Concepts; Types - Host, Network; Technologies - Static packet filtering; Stateful packet filtering; Multilayer firewall; Architectures; Polices; Implementation and Deployment.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/beng-hons-cybersecurity-and-forensics-undergraduate-fulltime:
BEng (Hons) Cybersecurity and Forensics has been awarded full undergraduate certification from the National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) – the first undergraduate course in the UK to achieve full accreditation.
Combining three of the most sought-after streams of computing, this course capitalises on the rising awareness of the importance of network security and is a valuable foundation to a successful and well-paid career.
Two years of general computing studies will lead you to the specialty areas of security and forensics, software development and computer networks.
After four years, you’ll have the expertise needed to create and analyse effective and secure computer systems.
In the computing career market, the demand for security engineers is increasing.
As a graduate, you’ll have the wide range of skills plus the specialised expertise in data security needed to move into a variety of roles.
GG57
This course will provide you with the knowledge and skills required to pursue a career in a computing-related field, which will allow the application of security and digital forensics expertise.
You will be taught the principles of security and digital forensics, using specialist software and equipment.
During your studies you will gain the ability to apply professional standards to the analysis, design, testing, evaluation and modification of reliable and maintainable software.
In addition, you will be able to develop critical, analytical and problem solving skills in relation to computing issues
Please note: This course is only offered as a full time course which requires you to be present in person.
So, this course can not be studied part time or as distance learning at the moment.
What are the entry requirements for Cybersecurity and Forensics?
*Science subjects include: Biology, Chemistry, Computing, Engineering Science, Information Technology, Software Systems Development, Digital Technology (NOT Digital Media), Psychology, Maths or Physics.
From the very beginning of your first year to final year, the Cybersecurity & Forensics degree will help you to grow as an IT professional who can investigate and detect whether a system of an organization has been compromised and can analyze intrusions after they've occurred.
You will be equipped with practical knowledge of several of the latest tools and softwares, operating systems, programming languages, data collection & reporting skills.
Our past graduates have secured the following roles but not limited to:
Your day-to-day responsibilities will vary based on the career path you choose.
If you become a cybersecurity specialist, your top priority will be to secure the system of an organization from cyber-attacks, threats and vulnerabilities by constantly monitoring and analyzing the system.
By collaborating with other members of the IT team, you will be dedicated to protecting the integrity of the business's data and network.
From time to time, you will also upgrade network and infrastructure systems, maintain security controls, determine security violations and inform users by preparing performance reports.
If you become a digital forensic specialist, you will be looking for and retrieving highly sensitive data that can be used as evidence in a criminal investigation after a security breach has taken place.
You will be investigating data and satellite navigation systems to trace persons or places, producing reports on the findings, collaborating with other investigation team members and provide evidence in the court if needed, recovering encrypted and deleted files and more.
Whichever path you choose, your primary focus will be to protect organizations against cyber threats in this modern digital world.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-data-science---undergraduate-fulltime:
Data Science is a new and rapidly expanding discipline that uses scientific approaches, business understanding, data and artificial intelligence to extract knowledge and understanding from the vast quantities of data sources that exist.
Data scientists work with data, including datasets relating to climate change, health and social media to enhance insight, to innovate and to enable data driven decision-making.
This course teaches you the the best way to learn about data science as it aims to teach you both the theory and practical elements of the subject: manipulating and analysing big data sets to draw meaning and understanding that affect our everyday lives.
From vast unstructured data to data organised as a warehouse, data is considered of strategic importance to governments, global organisations, health service providers, financial organisations, sporting organisations, educational institutions, the charity and voluntary sector and businesses in general.
Furthermore, career opportunities in the field of data are expanding, companies are looking at ways to develop technology through machine learning and data-driven analytics and require fresh talent to deliver ground-breaking results.
The advantages of learning data science from undergraduate level is that you can master the fundamentals and gain that reward in the job market.
You will study a wide range of modules including data management, coding, statistical methods, data analytics, machine learning, artificial intelligence, data visualisation and data engineering.
Specialist courses are taught by expert staff who actively research applications of data science and you have an opportunity to undertake a data science research project in a topic that interests you.
This course was developed as part of the Edinburgh and South East Scotland CRD.
G445
The course starts with a solid grounding in coding, statistics and foundation computing, including human-computer interaction and computer systems.
You will then learn about data engineering and analysis through database systems, data analytics and data visualisation.
In years three and four you will further develop your skills in artificial intelligence and machine learning and undertake an Honours project linked to emerging topics in data science.
What are the entry requirements for Data Science?
Standard Entry Requirement: BBBB to include Maths or Physics.
National 5 grade C in Maths OR Applications of Maths.
Unrelated HNC/HNDs may be considered
In addition, have Higher Maths (or Statistics) or Physics Grade B
BTEC (QCF) National Diploma Level
The BSc (Hons) Data Science degree at Edinburgh Napier University provides a comprehensive education in various skills and knowledge areas, allowing you to tackle real-world problems and extract insights from data to drive business decisions and innovation.
You will learn about various programming languages and machine learning, as well as how to manipulate and analyse data.
You’ll also learn how data can be visualised, how it’s managed within databases and how it’s kept safe through data ethics and privacy principles.
You will also be equipped with communication, presentation, problem solving and critical thinking skills to help you make a real impact on your organisation.
These various skills and knowledge areas will help you become a successful Data Scientist capable of solving real-world problems.
There are many data science jobs available.
With a data science degree you can expect to find employment in:
As a Data Scientist, you will use your expertise in mathematics, statistics, programming, and domain knowledge to analyze large and complex datasets.
You will explore data, identify patterns, and extract insights using statistical methods and visualization techniques.
You might also develop and apply machine learning models to make predictions, classify data, or uncover hidden patterns.
On a daily basis, you may collaborate with teams, understanding business problems and framing them as data science challenges.
Effective communication of findings through visualizations, reports, and presentations is also vital in a Data Scientist role.
You will deploy models into production systems, monitor their performance, and make necessary updates.
Ultimately, data scientists leverage data to generate insights and support data-driven decision-making processes.
Throughout your career you will continuously learn and stay updated with the latest advancements in the field.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-digital-media-and-interaction-design-undergraduate-fulltime:
Studying this course will give you a comprehensive understanding of the role digital media and interaction design plays within our lives, exploring how people use and respond to emerging technology and media.
You’ll be equipped with adaptable practical and theoretical skills to allow you to design for current and future trends, whether you are creating for screen-based media, interactive experiences or physical computing.
During your studies you will be supported to create a portfolio of work, make links with industry and undertake optional work placement or study abroad options.
We use industry standard packages in specialist Mac and PC labs.
This course has been designed to facilitate advanced entry opportunities for Arts based College Diplomas in areas such as Computer Arts & Design, Visual Design, and Digital Media.
Your studies at Edinburgh Napier will prepare you for employment opportunities across a range of fast paced and exciting areas.
Some of our recent graduates have found employment as digital designers, motion graphic designers, VFX artists, developers, producers, 3d artists, user experience consultants and virtual reality producers.
G455
This course will help you develop a comprehensive knowledge of the technologies involved in the creation and delivery of digital media.
You will gain an appreciation of the theory, application and cultural context for the use and development of new and emerging media, giving you confidence to critique and explore new areas as they are developed.
During your studies, you will gain expertise in the use of computer-based authoring tools to create audio, video, 2D and 3D media, as well as exploring physical computing and human computer interaction.
In the first year, you will acquire essential skills in digital media, interaction design, sound design, web development, and user experience.
You'll undertake the same modules as students in our other programmes, gaining insight into how different disciplines collaborate and developing a broad skill set.
Starting from the second year, you will begin to specialise in your degree subject.
In years three and four you will continue to build your knowledge, choosing a specialist route and focusing your areas of expertise whilst developing own authentic style.
In year four your independent project will allow you to develop your critical understanding, researching topics at the forefront of interactive and digital media, and culminating in a dissertation and a major media project .
You will also focus on portfolio and career development ready for your next steps.
What are the entry requirements for Digital Media and Interaction Design?
This course provides advanced entry opportunities for Arts based College Diplomas in areas such as Computer Arts & Design, Visual Design, and Digital Media.
Please contact the University for further clarification.
Unrelated HNC/HNDs may be considered.
In addition have Higher Design subject at grade B
BTEC National Diploma Level 3 plus A Level
HNC - Pass in Computer Arts and Design, Audio Visual Technologies, Art Design & Visual Communication, Digital Design & Web Development, Computer Art and Design & Interactive Design, Animation or Digital & Creative Media with a B in the graded unit
BBC to include at least one of: Design, Art & Design, Music, Photography, Media or Graphic Communication at Higher
Advanced Higher BB and SQA Higher BB to include at least one of: Design, Art & Design, Music, Photography, Media or Graph Comm at Higher.
BBB to include at least one of: Design, Art & Design, Music, Photography, Media or Graphic Communication.
Minimum grades DDD (Distinction, Distinction, Distinction) in a related subject.
The BSc (Hons) Digital Media & Interaction Design course will enable you to design for a range of digital media creating intuitive interfaces and positive user experiences.
You will acquire skills in modern digital design that can be applied to web and mobile applications, 2D and 3D asset creation and animation.
You will also gain knowledge in evaluating and improving the usability of designs through testing.
These skills will help you to communicate ideas visually and work collaboratively in the digital design industry.
Here are some potential career paths and roles that you can pursue with this degree:
An interaction designer specializes in creating user experiences for digital products and services.
They conduct user research to understand user needs and behaviours.
Using this knowledge, they design the overall user experience (UX), including wireframes, user flows, and prototypes.
They focus on organising information in an intuitive way and designing interactive elements from buttons and menus through to animation and video.
Usability testing is performed to evaluate the design and gather user feedback for improvement.
Interaction designers collaborate with cross-functional teams and consider accessibility and inclusivity in their designs.
They follow an iterative design process, continuously refining and adapting their designs based on user feedback and project requirements.
The goal of an interaction designer is to create engaging, efficient, and user-centred digital experiences.
As a motion graphics designer, you will use your creativity and technical skills to bring stories to life by creating visually compelling narratives across a range of industry sectors from games and software to the third sector and healthcare.
You will be responsible for designing visually appealing and engaging motion graphics, including animations, videos, and visual effects using various software tools and techniques.
You will work closely with clients, creative directors, and other team members to understand project requirements and ensure that the final product meets the client's objectives.
You’ll keep learning constantly to stay updated with the latest design trends, animation techniques, and software advancements.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-digital-media-and-interaction-design-global-undergraduate-fulltime:
Incorporating integral study abroad in Year 3, this course has been developed for the new media professional ready to work in a global industry.
Placements are available in Europe and beyond with our wide range of partner institutions and we’ll work with you to find a placement that suits your skills, interests and ambitions.
Your experience abroad combined with your studies at Edinburgh Napier will prepare you for employment opportunities across a range of fast-paced and exciting areas.
Please note: This course is no longer recruiting and is being merged with Digital Media and Interaction Design .
I152
2:16
In year three you will undertake the integral study abroad for either one or two trimesters, giving you the chance to explore your skills and diversify your knowledge in a new and exciting environment.
In year four, your independent project will allow you to develop your critical understanding, researching topics at the forefront of interactive and digital media, and culminating in a dissertation and a major media project.
BTEC

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bscbsc-hons-games-development-undergraduate-fulltime:
A degree in Games Development prepares you for the technical end of this exciting entertainment industry.
This course provides you with opportunities in the games industry, related research and development companies, as well as other screen industries such as VFX and complex data visualisation.
This course will enable you to become a proficient game developer and open doors to may game developer job opportunities.
On successful completion of this programme, you will have the knowledge, understanding and skills to gain graduate-level employment in games development and the software industry in general.
Your studies are designed to provide entry into the core software engineering layer of the digital entertainment industry.
From here, you will be able to progress into a wide range of career paths, both technical and managerial.
Based on sound software engineering principles, the course will also equip you for a software engineering career in the wider computing industry.
There is a host of British game developers around today and the market is only growing.
Becoming accustomed to game development software at Edinburgh Napier University will allow you to compete for highly sought after positions in this exciting industry.
This programme is accredited by ScreenSkills, an industry-led skills body for the screen industries.
G443
''There was a great mix of practical work with theory and the practical parts of the course reinforced what we were learning throughout the course.''
In your first and second years, you will cover a wide area of computing-related subjects.
The emphasis is on building your software development and engineering skills.
The third year builds on the foundation established in the first two years and lets you apply these skills to games-related problems, like Computer Graphics, Physics-based Animation, Games Engineering or Artificial Intelligence.
In the final year of the degree, you will study advanced topics like GPU optimisation and complete your honours project.
Throughout these subjects, you will also be invited to produce artefacts which you can use to start building your portfolio!
What are the entry requirements for Games Development?
This course will introduce you to the exciting realm of game design and development, mastering the transdisciplinary skills needed to create immersive gaming experiences that captivate audiences around the world.
From coding interactive gameplay mechanics to designing stunning visual effects, you will learn the art and science of game & experience design and development from industry experts.
Our course prepares you to join the world of Interactive Experience Designers, a unique interdisciplinary career path which combines creativity and technical knowledge to create innovative and wonderful realities for global audiences.
With your degree you could work in:
You will study the latest trends and technologies in game design and gain hands-on experience through game development projects and industry collaborations.
As you explore topics such as game & experience design, game engines and immersive technologies, you will acquire the expertise sought after by top game studios and entertainment companies.
After completing this course, you will emerge as a highly skilled game designer and developer, ready to unleash your creativity and passion in the dynamic world of experience design.
Whether you dream of creating a game by yourself or pushing the boundaries of interactive entertainment using augmented and virtual reality, our program will empower you to turn your love for gaming into a rewarding and resilient career.
As a Games Developer, you will embark on an adventure to create immersive worlds, captivating narratives, and thrilling gameplay experiences that transport players to new realms of excitement and engagement.
Whether you are designing characters, crafting environments, or fine-tuning gameplay mechanics, your role will be instrumental in shaping the virtual landscapes that gamers love to explore.
From coding character movement and interactions to implementing complex AI behaviours and physics simulations, your expertise in industry standard workflows such as Unity and Unreal Engine will be valuable across multiple fields.
You will leverage your understanding of game engines and development frameworks to optimize performance, enhance visual fidelity, and ensure seamless gameplay experiences across different platforms.
In addition to gameplay mechanics, you will also be responsible for integrating audio, visual effects, and user interfaces to create a cohesive and immersive player experience.
Whether you are designing levels, balancing gameplay, or troubleshooting technical issues, your attention to detail and problem-solving skills will be instrumental in delivering polished and memorable gaming experiences.
Collaboration will be at the heart of your journey, as you work in multidisciplinary teams alongside fellow artists, designers, developers to bring your visions to life.
You will have the opportunity to leave your mark on the gaming industry, captivating audiences with your innovative ideas and technical expertise.
Furthermore, Games Technologies, whether the engines that power immersive visuals, or the cutting-edge innovations that enable engaging interactions, are incredibly adaptable and increasingly applied beyond the games industry.
The same tools and workflows you will master as a games developer are increasingly utilised for everything from virtual production for film making & digital cultural heritage, to experience & service design for applications ranging from health and wellbeing to data visualisation, marketing, and AI-powered interactions.
Your skills will be sought by multiple interdisciplinary industries seeking to leverage the ubiquitous capabilities of game technology.
Gaming may be the start of your journey, but you will never be confined by it.
Your knowledge and skills will make you an adaptable and resilient practitioner.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bengbeng-hons-software-engineering-undergraduate-fulltime:
Throughout the course you’ll learn both mainstream and emerging software development, implementation and evolution - from design and analysis to human interaction principles and system evaluation.
Your study will be supported by input and guidance from industry experienced teaching staff.
Our Software Engineering degree has a high employability focus to prepare you for industry.
Throughout the course you will learn a mixture of vocational skills such as object-oriented programming and project management, alongside fundamental theory in areas such as artificial intelligence, algorithms and mathematics.
This is complemented by an optional year-long placement in industry, alongside other opportunities to build software for industrial clients.
On completion of the course you will be able to work effectively with today’s technologies, and to readily learn new technologies that emerge throughout your career.
G600
At the beginning of the course you will gain practical experience of software development using object-oriented programming, as well as an understanding of how software systems are used in businesses, and methods to build effective user interfaces.
You are then taught key methods of software engineering used in industry, while expanding your knowledge of areas such as databases and operating systems.
The later years of the course focus on the key skills required by industry, such as project management, secure software development, and techniques to facilitate software evolution.
You will also gain experience of emerging areas such as artificial intelligence, and software engineering for safety critical systems.
At this stage you will be able to design and develop large-scale software systems, and be able to choose appropriate methodologies to do so.
What are the entry requirements for Software Engineering?
Standard Entry Requirement: BBBB.
Minimum Offer Entry Requirement: BBCC.
HNC - Pass in Computing, Computer Games Development, Software Development or Data Analytics with B in the graded unit
BB and SQA Higher BB
In our dynamic program, you'll learn the art and science of software development, mastering the skills needed to design, build, and maintain complex software systems that power our digital world.
From coding scalable applications to testing and deployment, you'll gain a deep understanding of the entire software development lifecycle.
This course will help you to build your career in the following paths:
By enrolling in our course, you'll not only study the latest methodologies and technologies in software engineering but also gain hands-on experience through collaborative projects and internships.
As you explore topics such as agile development, DevOps, and software architecture, you'll acquire the expertise sought after by top tech companies and startups.
Upon graduation, you'll emerge as a highly skilled software engineer, ready to tackle the challenges of building innovative software solutions that meet the needs of users and businesses alike.
Whether you dream of developing cutting-edge applications, optimizing system performance, or leading software development teams, our program will prepare you for a successful career in software engineering.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/meng-software-engineering-undergraduate-fulltime:
MEng in Software Engineering builds on the success of our existing BEng degree and offers an advanced award in recognition of a more comprehensive and challenging course of study.
The course recognises professionalism in the development of excellent quality software, using industry recognised tools and techniques in a range of application areas.
On successful completion of this course you will have the knowledge, understanding and skills to gain graduate-level employment in a wide range of private and public sector organisations.
Recent graduates from our Software Engineering course have found employment as software engineers (developer, designer, tester and maintainer), software support analysts, project managers and trainee IT consultants; and several have gained entry to prestigious management trainee programmes with large employers.
5 years
G603
As you progress, you will develop a critical understanding of the analysis, design, development, testing, evaluation and modification of reliable, maintainable and high quality software including real-time, mobile and large scale enterprise systems
In year four, you will develop a familiarity and understanding of a range of theoretical and methodological approaches to the design of effective interactive systems.
At this stage you will learn to select and evaluate hardware and software to facilitate the design and implementation of software systems including the interfacing between the two.
The MEng year of the course focuses on professional software engineering skills.
This includes undertaking a team-based software engineering project, alongside studying key industrial application areas including enterprise computing and advanced web programming.
Students from England, Wales, Northern Ireland, and Republic of Ireland will be invoiced the tuition fees for 4 years of their 5 years of study.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-sound-design-undergraduate-fulltime:
If you have a passion for sound, and would like to learn how to design it so that it is seamlessly integrated into media, products or environments, then this degree will help you develop an in-depth understanding and the practical skills needed to design and evaluate effective sound for listeners.
This course will teach you the techniques to create new sounds that coexist with dialogue and music to support a wide variety of media and applications.
The underlying principles of linear and interactive media are also addressed, as well as products and environments to maximise potential employment.
Throughout your studies you can specialise in your chosen discipline, and then work towards creating an appropriate portfolio, whilst gaining valuable contacts who could help you during your transition from study to a professional career.
A mix of assignments and projects will give you the chance to collaborate with students on Acting, Digital Media, Film, Games Development and Television degrees.
Studying Sound Design will allow you to collaborate with students on Acting, Digital Media, Film, Games, Journalism, Television, UX and Web degrees.
We also have an extensive range of online guest lectures from internationally recognised Sound Designers.
Find out more at: https://blogs.napier.ac.uk/sounddesign
5G7B
"Studying at Edinburgh Napier gave me lots of opportunities to gain new experiences and enhance my career."
We have an established research record in listening and sound design, which is fully integrated into the teaching and assessment.
Students will be actively encouraged to take part in sound research, both in order to develop a greater understanding of listeners’ experiences, and to contribute to new developments within the sound design field.
The course introduces you to the wide range of media that sound designers work in, as well as the underlying principles and techniques suitable for each field.
Giving you the opportunity to specialise in your chosen discipline, this programme works towards creating an appropriate portfolio, and establishing contacts to aid your transition from study to a professional career.
During the first year of the course, you will explore the principles of digital media and interaction design.
Second year focuses on the study of the principles of sound and production methods associated with different industries, as well as how to create interactive experiences.
Designing sound to support narratives and engage end users through linear and interactive media, as well as develop collaborative skills is addressed in third year.
In your final year, you will develop major and major projects in your chosen field as well as perfect your portfolio.
You can also undertake a suitable internship, or further explore narrative principles.
For students who wish to work as freelancers, the University offers a free incubator space as well as free mentoring and advice.
Teaching includes class lectures, laboratory practical sessions, class tutorials, online guest lectures, individual supervision, industrial experience and independent study.
Lectures, practical sessions and tutorials
Coursework 95%, exams 5%.
What are the entry requirements for Sound Design?
Minimum Year 1
Minimum Year 2
Places are limited and students should anticipate a rigorous selection process, potentially including interview.
To help you fully engage with the work environment, you will receive support and development opportunities from our dedicated Student Futures team.
Workshops, CV checkers and placements are just some of the types of activities available to help boost your employability as well as prepare you for a successful long-term career in your chosen field.
This course will enable you to explore the art and science of sound design, mastering the techniques needed to create compelling audio experiences.
From recording and editing sound effects to mixing and mastering audio tracks, you'll learn to harness the power of sound to evoke emotion and enhance storytelling.
This course provides a brilliant opportunity to work in the following career paths:
You will have the opportunity to study the fundamentals of sound design theory and practice as well as gain practical experience through hands-on projects and studio sessions.
As you explore topics such as sound production, sound theory and sound design, you'll acquire the expertise sought after by audio production studios and media companies.
Upon completion, you'll emerge as a highly skilled sound designer, equipped to work in a variety of creative industries where sound plays a crucial role.
Whether you aspire to work in film post-production, game audio, or interactive media, our programme will provide you with the knowledge and skills to succeed in a competitive and rewarding field.
As a Sound Designer, you will be able to bring your passion for soundscapes and sonic storytelling to life.
In this role, you'll be the creative behind the auditory experience of films, video games, virtual reality, and more.
You will be crafting immersive sound effects, composing captivating musical scores, and manipulating audio to evoke emotion and enhance storytelling.
From the rustle of leaves in a serene forest, to the thunderous roar of an epic battle, your creations will transport audiences to new worlds and breathe life into digital environments.
You will find yourself collaborating with directors, producers, and developers to capture their vision and elevate it through sound.
As a Sound Designer, you'll push the boundaries of technology and creativity.
You will be experimenting with innovative audio tools and techniques to achieve the perfect balance of realism and imagination.
Attention to detail and dedication to your craft will be evident in every auditory creation.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-user-experience-ux-design-undergraduate-fulltime:
User Experience (UX) Design is a creative dynamic discipline that encourages curiosity creatively expressed through the voice of people.
This exciting course encourages you to explore the world of interaction design and user experience with devices and systems.
This user experience design course will develop your skills in identifying unmet needs and defining them by incorporating them into the process of design.
Our course will ingrain digital user experience design principles into our students and prepare them for a career in the industry.
If you have an insatiable curiosity to speculate on the future and understand people’s experience as they interact with devices and systems - then this course is for you!
During your studies, you will develop an impressive portfolio of work that you can easily use for applying to a broad range of user experience jobs.
Full-time (available as Part-time, year 3 entry only )
(available as Part-time, year 3 entry only )
I104
Our graduate Zuzanna Marchewka shares her journey of studying BSc (Hons) User Experience (UX) Design course.
At the beginning of the course you will gain an introduction to computing, design and digital media production.
You will then learn about user experience (UX) for different domains, including mobile applications, physical computing, and the web.
As well as how new technological advances, such as AI can influence design.
In years three and four you will further develop your skills in designing and evaluating ubiquitous systems, user experience and creative technologies.
Students who cover User Experience have access to the Sensorium, a high spec UX Lab, including Eye tracking and Facial Expression analysis software.
What are the entry requirements for User Experience?
Other HND qualifications may be considered, please contact Undergraduate Admissions for advice.
In our innovative programme, you'll learn to place the user at the center of the design process, mastering the skills needed to create intuitive and engaging digital experiences that delight users and drive business success.
From conducting user research to prototyping and usability testing, you'll gain a deep understanding of the principles and practices of UX design.
User experience design courses equip students with the skills required for a successful career in the following fields:
As a UX Designer, you will embark on a journey to enhance user experiences by utilizing your empathy, creativity, and problem-solving skills.
In this role, you'll be the advocate for users, ensuring that every interaction with a product or service is intuitive, seamless, and delightful.
You will be conducting user research, gathering feedback, and iterating on designs to create solutions that meet user needs and exceed expectations.
From wireframing and prototyping to conducting usability testing, you will be working alongside designers, developers, and stakeholders to create user-centric experiences.
Whether you're designing mobile apps, websites, or software interfaces, your focus will be on creating experiences that are not only visually appealing but also intuitive and accessible to a diverse audience.
As a UX Designer, you'll have the power to shape the way people interact with technology, making complex systems feel simple and intuitive.
Your passion for understanding user behavior and solving design challenges will drive you to create experiences that leave a lasting impression, fostering loyalty and engagement among users.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-web-design-and-development-undergraduate-fulltime:
The main benefits of living in the digital age is the ease of having everything available at our fingertips, whether we are online shopping, doing our banking or carrying out research.
This is why having a strong web and digital presence has become a priority for all organisations.
Studying Web Design and Development will enable you to gain the technical and design-related skills you need to succeed in this growing, dynamic area.
This course will cover key areas in web design and development, including web and mobile application programming, interaction design, organisational frameworks, as well as human, cultural, and social issues.
This allows you to specialise in this vibrant area while gaining a solid foundation of the broader principles of computing.
7Y7X
Our BSc (Hons) Web Design & Development graduate Byron Fry shares his experience of studying the course
In the early stage of this course, you will gain an introduction to web and digital media design, programming for media, and Human-Computer Interaction.
You will then progress to Interaction Design, database development, designing and programming for different domains, including mobile applications and the Web.
In year three, you will design and develop visual interfaces for ubiquitous systems, employ advanced web technologies, and research frameworks.
You will learn about digital business environments, project management methodologies and work individually or in multidisciplinary teams on live briefs.
At this stage, you can choose to study with one of our international partners or to work in industry.
In your final year, you will focus on User Experience, speculative design, professional skills through an internship and portfolio development and will complete your honours project.
Lectures, tutorials, seminars and practical classes.
What are the entry requirements for Web Design and Development?
H2, H3, H3, H3 at Higher Level and grade O4 in Ordinary Level Maths.
Scottish HNC/D
HNC with C in the graded unit in one of the following;
The BSc (Hons) Web Design & Development degree equips you with a diverse skill set in creating and maintaining websites.
You will learn essential languages like HTML/CSS for web structure and design, JavaScript for interactivity, and various server-side programming languages for interacting with webservers.
You will gain expertise in responsive web design to ensure compatibility across devices, while also acquiring knowledge of database management, web security, debugging, troubleshooting, and UI/UX design.
With these skills, you will be prepared for the following roles:
A web developer designs, builds, and maintains websites and web applications.
They use markup and scripting languages like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to create the structure, layout, and interactivity of websites.
Front-end developers focus on the client-side components, ensuring visually appealing and responsive user interfaces.
Back-end developers handle server-side components, including data processing and database integration.
Web developers test and debug websites, addressing issues and ensuring smooth functionality.
They implement security measures to protect against threats and vulnerabilities.
Collaboration and version control systems enable effective teamwork and code management.
Web developers also handle website maintenance, updates, and enhancements.
They combine technical skills, problem-solving abilities, and creativity to create functional and engaging online experiences.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-business-information-technology-postgraduate-fulltime:
Making the right decisions about how to use technology has become more and more critical, hence why there are great career opportunities for graduates who have skills in technology management.
This course will allow those who are pursuing a different career the chance to discover software architecture, systems administration, interactive systems design, and more.
At the end of the course, you will be able to examine the characteristics of business information systems, how they are designed and how they can be successfully implemented in the working environment.
The course is suitable for individuals with a management background wishing to specialise in information system technology or technology specialists wishing to move on to managerial roles.
Find out how Elsie's Masters in Business Information Technology prepared her for a career as a Business Analyst.
This course will teach you about information system management and development in organisations.
You will learn how to design and implement information systems solutions, allowing you to gain an overview of the importance of systems to organisations as well as gain the technical and communication skills which the industry values.
The course focusses on how systems work, how the requirements for them are established and how they are designed and developed.
On completion, you will gain transferable skills in project management, team working, and communication and presentation skills.
This course is taught at our Merchiston campus near the centre of Edinburgh.
You will have access to specialist labs and facilities, the Jack Kilby Computer Centre.
You will be taught by experienced lecturers, with research degrees and teaching qualifications.
Many also have relevant industry experience
This course is taught at our Merchiston Campus near the centre of Edinburgh.
You will have access to specialist labs and facilities, including the Sensorium , a newly opened user experience lab.
This module addresses contemporary forms of digital business, building key skills in the assessment and analysis of digital business models.Digital business strategy and resultant impacts are examined, focusing on digital marketplace analysis.Analytical tools and approaches are used to explore how businesses seek to exploit the ‘search’ and ‘social’ ecosystems, and to leverage the ‘mobile’ ecosystem.
Contemporary trends around e-procurement and digital supply chains are also addressed, particularly in the context of digital products and services.Legal, privacy and trust issues are explored, and implications for service design considered.
This module covers the principles and concepts related to the capture, management, and storage of knowledge.
During this module students will learn different approaches to knowledge management and both technical and social knowledge management infrastructures.
A range of techniques will be covered for the creation, capture, classification, exchange, dissemination and use of knowledge for competitive advantage and corporate growth.
Throughout the module, students will develop understandings of knowledge strategies and knowledge continuity management that can be used in the creation of knowledge management plans.
This module examines the use of agile methods for the delivery of software.
Agile methods involve evolutionary development with self-organizing teams and adaptive planning.
Students are introduced to and apply the Scrum and Kanban delivery methods.
Human factors and group dynamics are evaluated within the context of agile delivery methods.
The management of risk and project monitoring are examined and strategic governance and compliance approaches are evaluated.
Evolving role of strategic IS/IT systems; Management of strategic IS/IT systems; Processes for developing effective IS/IT strategies; Alignment of IS/IT strategies with business strategies; Innovating with IS/IT systems; Strategic IS/IT systems for competitive advantage; Tools & techniques for building IS/IT strategic capabilities; Evaluating & justifying IS/IT systems; Managing a portfolio of IS/IT applications.
Positioning & managing strategic IS/IT systems.
2:35
What are the entry requirements for Business Information Technologies?
The entry requirement for this course is a Bachelor (Honours) Degree at a 2:2 or above, or equivalent.
In today's rapidly evolving business landscape, the integration of technology is key to success.
Our programme offers a unique blend of business and technical expertise, empowering you to harness the power of information technology to drive innovation and create value.
Our business information technology course will give graduates the opportunity to advance in their sector or find a new profession in the following fields:
Throughout the course, you'll explore the latest trends and developments in business information technology, from enterprise systems and business analytics to digital transformation and cybersecurity.
Through hands-on projects and industry partnerships, you'll gain practical experience applying cutting-edge technologies to solve real-world business challenges.
Upon completion of the programme, you'll emerge as a versatile and adaptable professional, equipped to lead digital initiatives, optimize business processes, and drive organizational growth.
Whether you aspire to work in consulting, finance, or technology management, our MSc in Business Information Technology will provide you with the knowledge and skills to thrive in a competitive and dynamic business environment.
As a Business IT Manager, your organizational skills and strategic vision will be instrumental in delivering organisational benefits.
You will be able to oversee the planning, execution, and delivery of technology initiatives in a variety of roles.
As a project manager you will manage resources and timelines and manage risks and communications with stakeholders.
Your days will be filled with juggling multiple priorities and collaborating with cross-functional teams.
You will act as a leader of managing complex projects, guiding teams toward shared goals and facilitating collaboration to overcome challenges and achieve success.
As an information security manager you will set up information governance processes and ensure that your organisation complies with current legislation as well as preparing for future regulation.
You will have the expertise to navigate the intersection of technology, business, and people with ease.
Your leadership and communication  skills will be essential as you lead teams to deliver technology solutions in demanding environments.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-business-information-technology-postgraduate-parttime:
2:47
What are the entry requirements for Business Information Technology?

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-computing-postgraduate-fulltime:
The MSc Computing is suitable for those who have little or no computing experience or those who have some computing but wish to pursue a very practical hands-on approach at masters level.
With a strong emphasis on practical skills, this MSc will prepare you for a career in the computing industry.
You will learn fundamental computing concepts, programming, web development, database design and team working.
The course starts in both September and January.
"I was drawn to where the course could take me in the future."
This course is designed to prepare you for direct entry into the workplace with a solid understanding of how information systems operate in their many different forms.
Modules studied (September intake):
Modules studied (January intake)
This course is studied full-time over three trimesters.
It requires an intensive period of study, involving lectures, tutorials, laboratory sessions and independent study.
While classes for each module may account for only three or four hours a week, you'll be expected to commit at least 13 hours per week per module.
You can choose to start in either January or September (the course content varies slightly depending on when you start).
Depending on chosen modules, our specialist labs may include:
The Sensorium - A forward-looking User Experience (UX) Evaluation Lab utilising the next generation of real time human behaviour insight technology
SOCLAB - Virtual Security Operations Centre
Swarm Robotics - A custom-designed robot arena and laboratory
Lions Gate - A locus of interdisciplinary research focusing on sustainability, digital interaction, health and well-being.
In this 10-credit module, you will learn the fundamental concepts behind computer systems.
In this module you will get a chance for hand-on practice with low level systems.
This includes key features of computer architecture (including motherboards, hub chips, processors, RAM and cache), operating systems like Windows and Linux (including multi-tasking, memory management and filesystems), and networking (including the OSI 7 layer model, TCP/IP, and network devices).
This module provides a broad introduction to database technology, including architecture and functionality, data analysis and entity-relationship modelling; database design (normalisation), querying and SQL.
We will also address database management, including security and optimisation, and review current trends in database technology.
The module is practically oriented, and will focus on designing, implementing, and querying a database system.
The main purpose of this module is to develop your teamworking skills by applying your technical knowledge in a group situation.
Your team of four or five students will work together to deliver a working prototype of a software system relevant to your programme of study.
The module is also designed to develop your skills in critical analysis and reflection.
In the first few weeks, your team will review existing work related to your chosen project which will inform the production of a formal system specification.
The review and specification will form the first piece of coursework along with a reflective statement from each team member that discusses personal issues and insights arising from the project up to that point.The second submission is a second group report and presentation (via teleconferencing or equivalent for distance learning (DL) students) on the implementation of the design and the evaluation of the final prototype.
This is accompanied by a second personal statement that reflects on the processes and potential conflicts of teamwork.Each group will be allocated a supervisor with whom you will have weekly meetings (online for DL students).
However the management and progress of the project will remain the responsibility of the team; the supervisor?s role is to provide advice and feedback where appropriate, and to monitor the contribution of team members.
Management and direction of the project must come from the team and not the supervisor.
In this module you will learn how do design and implement dynamic web sites, from the basics to modern frameworks and current professional practice.Covered topics are:* General client-side technologies: HTML, CSS, JavaScript * Client-side frameworks: Bootstrap, jQuery, jQuery-Mobile* A general overview of server-side development frameworks (such as PHP and ASP.NET) as well as how HTTP connects everything together* Data handling/persistence mechanisms: Databases, Entity Framework, Sessions, JSON* In-depth knowledge of ASP.NET MVC and related technologies (e.g.
Razor, Linq).
We will be using the framework with C#In doing so you will gain a good understanding of and ability to critically evaluate and select an appropriate framework for various kinds of web applications.
Program Environment: Use of an interactive development environment.
Basic Programming Skills: Variable declarations, printing to thescreen, reading from the keyboard, simple arithmetic operations,sequence, selection and iteration, functional decomposition, arrays,simple GUI's.Introduction to object-oriented programming.Program testing and documentation.
Object-oriented design: identifying architectural relationships of associations and aggregations, recording results of a design, system building, reasoning about a design, development lifecycles.Documentation: Produce detailed user and technical documentation for programs.Design, implement, test and document a non-trivial software applicationSave and retrieve data from sources external to JavaDevelop interfaces to Java programs
This module introduces students to current concepts and best practices in web page design and development.
Topics include the Document Object Model (DOM) and Document Type Definitions (DTD), as well as techniques for web page construction using industry-standard IDE tools such as Eclipse.
Students will gain hands-on experience in HTML coding, client-side and server-side scripting, and database connectivity utilizing PHP and MySQL.
The module also covers the implementation of Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) to enhance web page styling and layout.
Can I get admission into Computing based on my working experience in this sector?
Thanks to its content, and the high demand for well-qualified graduates in computing, this course can open doors to a wide range of careers.
You can take advantage of the increased opportunities for advancement that your new skills offer.
You could pursue a new role in your specialist area, or take on research, education, or start up a new business.
Computer science engineering and computer programming jobs include:
From programming and software development to Information Systems Engineering, you'll delve into the foundational concepts that underpin modern computing systems.
Through hands-on projects and collaborative learning experiences, you'll gain practical expertise in designing and implementing scalable and efficient solutions to complex problems.
Over time, you will emerge as a proficient and resourceful computing professional, ready to tackle the challenges of the digital age.
Whether you aspire to work as a software engineer, systems analyst, or technology consultant, our MSc in Computing will provide you with the tools and confidence to succeed in any computing-related field.
As a software developer, you'll be at the forefront of innovation, designing and developing software applications that power various aspects of our lives.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-computing-postgraduate-parttime:
The Sensorium - A forward-looking User Experience (UX) Evaluation Lab utilising the next generation of real time human behaviour insight technology
SOCLAB - Virtual Security Operations Centre
This course comprises of 180 credits from taught modules and a dissertation.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-computing-with-professional-placement-postgraduate-fulltime:
MSc Computing with Professional Placement aims to train and support (international) students who intend to work and live in the UK after graduation.
Our goal is to strengthen our connections to relevant industry groups.
Students will acquire technical knowledge in their chosen field and writing and interviewing skills in preparation for a job in the United Kingdom.
It will allow you to further your undergraduate studies and/or work experience to the postgraduate level and will enable you to study areas of computing that interest you and may help your career.
The program provides a unique opportunity to undertake work or research training in real-world settings.
This allows students to implement their theoretical knowledge and gain valuable professional experiences collaborating with enterprises and research projects across Scotland.
Edinburgh Napier University is committed to delivering an excellent personalised student experience.
You will be allowed to acquire and develop valuable practical skills, such as collecting, analysing, interpreting and understanding data and information.
Modules studied (September intake)
This is a full-time course and is split up into two sections, including taught courses and work-based dissertation.
Each section will split up into two trimesters.
Identifying projects 	The material will be available on the Moodle dissertation module page setting out the requirements and expectations:1.
Employers: information on hiring a Masters's student to work on a dissertation project with a link to the MyFuture employment opportunity site.
(University will arrange a career fair for Msc students who plan to join the module before the particular trimester)2.
Students: information on undertaking a WBL project and being proactive in undertaking initial research at the application stage, with links to the Moodle resources and the MyFuture site.
Matching Projects to Students 	A formal interview process is being established to match students and projects/employers though the ML must ensure the project and organisation are suitable for a Master-level dissertation.Project SupervisionWe would recommend the following responsibilities for the student and supervisor: 1.
The student must contact their academic supervisor once per week.
This typically takes the form of online or in-person meetings.
The student should briefly summarise what has been achieved that week and indicate if they are feeling OK with the project as a whole.
The supervisor must acknowledge receipt of the student's progress and support the student with dissertation writing.
What are the entry requirements for Computing with Professional Placement?
The entry requirement for this course is a Bachelor (Honours) Degree at a 2:1 equivalent or above in any discipline.
Can I get admission into Computing with Professional Placement based on my working experience in this sector?
What can you do with a MSc Computing with Professional Placement degree?
With the new skills and work experience provided as part of this course, you can take advantage of the increased opportunities for advancement.
This course will prepare international students for employment and residency in the UK following graduation.
It aims to enhance our ties with relevant industry associations.
You will gain expertise in your selected field and develop writing and interview skills to prepare you for a job in the United Kingdom.
Our Student Futures team will provide you with support and opportunities for personal growth to better engage with the professional environment.
These offerings include workshops, CV reviews, and internships designed to enhance your qualifications and equip you for a prosperous career in your chosen field.
You could pursue a new role in your specialist area, take on a research, education, or start up a new business.
Example career routes include:

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-data-engineering-postgraduate-online-learning:
Data engineering is a major growth area within both the commercial and public sectors, and there is a recognised shortage of professionals that have the required range of Data Engineering knowledge and skills.
This online MSc Data Engineering programme addresses this shortage.
The programme is aimed at graduates and practitioners with a background in business, quantitative science, or computing who wish to develop into effective Data Engineers with the business understandings and analytical, statistical, and computing skills to contribute to this vital area for contemporary commercial and public sectors.
Edinburgh Napier University has excellent research and knowledge transfer links with many local, national and international organisations in Data Engineering related areas.
This will give candidates the best possible chance at securing one of the many available data engineering jobs.
The acquisition of knowledge and skills on the programme will give students a critical understanding of the tools and technologies involved in the analysis, design, development, testing, evaluation and modification of Data Engineering solution; enable them to select and evaluate appropriate tools for the collection, processing and presentation of complex and diverse data sets, and critically review an organisation’s data needs and make appropriate and measurable recommendations on the use of Data Engineering techniques.
If you are a junior data engineer looking to move into a more senior role, or someone who wants to become a data engineer from a different profession, this course is for you.
Delivered online (part-time), this MSc is ideally suited to individuals who intend to balance their personal and professional commitments with their studies.
This programme was developed and in partnership with and partially financed by The DataLab.
The DataLab will fund a limited number of places for applicants normally resident in Scotland joining the programme in May.
These scholarships will be competitively awarded, and will cover the programme fees.
Online learning Part-time
21-33  months
"Edinburgh Napier strikes a good balance between academic contact and students’ social resources on this course."
You will study the software engineering process in both creating and working with large and complex data sets, acquiring the knowledge and experience of tools and techniques that are necessary to be a successful Data Engineer in a range of environments.
The focus of the programme is on the practical application of these skills and tools, with the underpinning theories used within this context.
Learning, teaching and assessment methods focus on providing students with engaging and contemporary materials that link theory to practice and require students to take a critical perspective on both.
The programme will benefit people wanting either to change career and start working in data solution development, or to upskill from being a software engineer or data scientist to the combined role of Data Engineer.
As the programme is paced to suit the learner, the MSc in Data Engineering will also support learners coming back to education.
Your final dissertation project will allow you to use the tools and approaches you have developed during the course.
The Master's Dissertation is studied over two trimesters following successful completion of all other modules.
For the award of MSc Data Engineering, you must successfully pass all seven modules, giving a total of 180 credits.
All modules are 20 credits, except where otherwise indicated.
You can choose from three start dates (September, January, May) and typically takes between 21 – 33 months to complete, subject to your pace of study and module availability.
You’ll study seven modules in total, with a maximum of two modules each trimester where available.
What are the entry requirements for Data Engineering?
The entry requirement for this course is a Bachelor (Honours) Degree at a 2:2 or above in an appropriate field, for example, Software Development, Software Engineering, Computing, Computer Science, Statistics, Mathematics or Business Analytics.
Alternatively, other qualifications or experience that demonstrate through our recognition of prior learning process that you have appropriate knowledge and skills at SCQF level 10 may be considered.
Competition for places varies from year-to-year and achievement of the typical minimum entry requirements does not always guarantee a place on the course.
Can I get admission into Data Engineering based on my working experience in this sector?
We run a suite of online Degree and Masters courses for students looking to learn new skills and professionals looking to advance their careers.
In an era driven by data, the ability to harness and manipulate information is essential for driving innovation and making informed decisions.
Our programme offers a deep dive into the world of data engineering, equipping you with the skills and knowledge needed to design and implement robust data infrastructure and systems.
Participation in this course will support your aspirations either to change career or start work in the area of Data Engineering.
Upon graduating form our Data Engineering courses you’ll be able to work in a variety of positions, including:
Throughout the course, you'll explore a wide range of topics, from data management and processing to business intelligence and reporting for enterprises.
Through hands-on projects and real-world case studies, you'll gain practical experience working with large-scale datasets and cutting-edge technologies, preparing you to tackle the complex challenges of data engineering.
Upon completion of the program, you'll emerge as a skilled and adaptable data engineer, ready to leverage the power of data to drive business success and societal impact.
Whether you aspire to work in data-driven organizations, research institutions, or tech startups, our MSc in Data Engineering will provide you with the expertise and confidence to excel in the rapidly evolving field of data engineering.
Working as a Big Data Engineer, your expertise in managing and analyzing vast volumes of information will unlock insights and drive decision-making at a scale.
In this role, you'll be responsible for designing, building, and maintaining the infrastructure and systems that enable organizations to process and extract value from large datasets.
You will be architecting data pipelines that collect, store, and process data from various sources, ensuring scalability, reliability, and efficiency.
From data ingestion and storage to data processing and analysis, your days will be filled with designing and optimizing solutions that empower stakeholders to derive actionable insights and make informed decisions.
As a Big Data Engineer, you'll work closely with data scientists, analysts, and business stakeholders to understand data requirements and translate them into scalable and performant solutions.
Whether you're working with structured or unstructured data, your expertise in distributed computing, parallel processing, and data modeling will be instrumental in turning raw data into valuable insights.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-digital-technologies-for-smart-cities-postgraduate-full-time:
This course is uniquely tailored to the demands of the global market, with a curriculum that's in sync with advancements in AI, cloud computing, 4G/5G communication technologies, and the Internet of Things (IoT).
This ensures you'll be learning the most relevant and up-to-date content, preparing you for a successful career in this dynamic field.
One of the key highlights of our program is the opportunity for specialization in high-demand areas such as robotics, sustainable energy, and cybersecurity, so you can tailor your learning journey to align perfectly with your career aspirations.
This programme is also enriched with practical sessions, facilitated by renowned professionals and experts in the sector.
You'll have the opportunity to collaborate with foreign institutions and companies, gaining hands-on experience and real-world insights that are invaluable in today's job market.
Our strong ties with internationally renowned industrial partners open a world of possibilities for networking and potential job opportunities.
At Edinburgh Napier University, we believe in supporting our students every step of the way.
That's why we offer comprehensive support in academic skills, language skills, and mathematics skills, ensuring you have all the tools you need to excel in this course.
Our MSc in Digital Technologies for Smart Cities isn't just a degree - it's a launchpad for a rewarding and impactful career in shaping the sustainable urban futures.
Apply today and take the first step towards becoming a leader in the smart cities of tomorrow.
Our MSc Digital Technologies for Smart Cities student Fahad Saleem shares his experience about the course
The MSc in Digital Technologies for Smart Cities program offers a comprehensive set of modules that are designed to provide students with a deep understanding of the field.
Here are the modules included in the program:
In addition to these modules, the program offers comprehensive support for students in academic skills, language skills, and mathematics skills.
All the Module Leaders (and the Programme Leader himself) are research-active and committed to delivering research.
The program also offers work placement opportunities and industry projects for students to gain practical experience.
This includes the possibility for students to contribute to active research and teaching activities, such as the Housing Construction and Infrastructure (HCI) Skills Gateway program, funded by the Scottish Government.
The program aims to utilize the experience of professionals (with backgrounds as industrialists, entrepreneurs, consultants, or innovators) to enhance teaching and learning as well as students’ employability and skills, while strengthening external partnerships with the industry.
Examples of industry players involved in this program include Leonardo UK, Catapult, Thales Group, Ineos Chemicals Grangemouth, Curvalux, PtlElectronics, NCR, Engineered Foam Products, Elite Controls, Peacock Technology, and many more.
The MSc in Digital Technologies for Smart Cities program offers a dynamic and engaging approach to assessments, designed to challenge you and help you apply your knowledge to real-world situations.
Here are some of the key features of the assessment process:
Diverse Assessment Methods: The program uses a variety of assessment methods to ensure a comprehensive evaluation of your understanding and skills.
These include case studies, participation, class tests, portfolios, dissertations, digital exams, practical exams, essays, presentations, reports, and more.
This variety not only keeps the assessment process interesting but also allows you to showcase your strengths in different areas.
Feedback and Improvement: After each assessment, you will receive individual feedback via Moodle, based on the marking criteria for that assessment.
This feedback, provided within three working weeks of the hand-in date, will help you understand your performance and identify areas for improvement.
In addition, general feedback will be issued to the class, enabling you to compare and contrast your performance with that of your peers.
Project-Based Learning: The MSc Project (ENG11100) is a significant part of the assessment process.
In this project, you will focus on developing solutions to digital technologies and smart cities problems.
The project topic will be individually established based on your professional interests or background.
The project incorporates elements such as a literature review, a research methodology, development of the solution using appropriate tools and techniques, evaluation of the solution, and a face-to-face viva-voce.
Real-World Application: The assessments are designed to reflect real-world scenarios, enabling you to apply your learning in practical contexts.
This approach not only enhances your understanding of the subject matter but also prepares you for the challenges you may face in your future career.
Continuous Learning: The program encourages continuous learning and improvement.
The assessments are not just about grading your performance but also about helping you develop critical thinking skills, problem-solving abilities, and a deep understanding of digital technologies for smart cities.
A supervised work experience, as part of final year MSc project, with our industrial partners is available: i.e.
Thales, Catapult, DSTL, Leonardo, Celestia, and many more.
The experience is intended to develop overall graduate skills/expertise and employability.
The School has committed resources to developing employment opportunities in conjunction with Student and Academic Services.
This experience takes place in Trimester 3, conditional upon the student being accepted by an employer on an approved work-based placement.
This must be established in Trimester 1 by consultation with the academic supervisor and the employer.
Students on this pathway are given an enhanced MSc experience through the provision of additional personal and professional development focussed on a successful placement application.
This module explores automation and robotics in industry.
This module covers the kinematics modeling of robotic arms and different controllers for robotic arms.
The module also includes the use of industry-level programming tools and simulators, as well as the control of physical robots.
You will engage with both physical and simulated robots to solve manipulation and navigation tasks in industrial settings.
Practical sessions will utilize Siemens Melfa Basic, Festo Infodicatic graphical language, and MATLAB to provide hands-on experience.
This module provides advanced knowledge and critical insight into the design and analysis of modern communication systems, encompassing both fibre optic and RF/microwave technologies.
Students will investigate propagation principles, bandwidth considerations, and loss mechanisms across different media.
Emphasis is placed on the design and evaluation of wireless communication links using antenna theory, signal-to-noise ratio estimation, and channel modelling for both line-of-sight and multipath environments.
The module also explores the performance characteristics and design constraints of optoelectronic and photonic components used in high-speed optical communication systems.
Learners will gain the ability to select and justify front-end components, including MESFET amplifiers and optical receivers, to meet specific performance metrics such as gain, noise and linearity.
By the end of the module, students will be equipped to critically appraise and synthesise complete communication system architectures to meet complex design requirements involving data rate, range, attenuation and reliability.
Fundamental aspects of digital signal processing: mathematical principle of discrete-time signals and processing, signal domains and transforms, digital filtering,  filter design, filter implementation, hardware/software tools and applications.Advanced digital signal processing: adaptive signal processing, wavelet transform spectral estimation, model-based spectral estimation and applications.
In this module you will learn about the challenges and advantages of Distributed Generation Systems.
The module initially covers rotating generators, necessary to understand conventional generation.
You will then learn about distribution Networks along with some technical issues such as voltage changes, fault levels and calculations, earthing, power quality, stability and protection.
As part of this you will need to use software to model a power system which includes distributed generation.
You will learn about power conversion technologies and finally examine multiple areas of Smart Grids.
These range from Network Operations, Energy Management, Information & Control Interoperability and Electrical Energy Storage.
Internet of Things (IoT) is an emerging network of physical objects that connects various sensors, software, and other technologies to the Internet.
The aim of this module is to learn about design and development of IoT systems, including embedded architecture of IoT, technologies and autonomous systems.
On this module you will learn concepts, practical aspects and applications of sensors, wireless technologies, robotic systems, data collection (and related processing technologies) for remote control of objects.
The following topics will be covered: Introduction to Internet of Things, basic concepts and the state of the art technology used in IoT systems.
Transducers and sensors Drones and Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (AUV) Autonomous systems sub-components : Sensors, motion control and intelligent decision making (i.e.
an introduction to Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning Techniques).
The student will learn about important elements of project management, such as planning, control, cost, problem solving skills, report writing and defend the outcome during a viva session.
The project is normally completed during 13 weeks of full time research or part time equivalent, 26 weeks.
This module equips students with advanced skills in computational and analytical techniques essential for addressing complex engineering challenges in the design and optimization of smart places.
Students will develop a solid foundation in mathematical modelling, programming, and numerical methods, enabling them to devise and evaluate solutions for real-world engineering problems.The module begins by introducing a comprehensive suite of computational and analytical methods, fostering a deep understanding of their theoretical underpinnings and practical applications.
Through hands-on programming exercises, students will learn to implement these methods effectively, bridging the gap between conceptual knowledge and real-world practice.Mathematical modelling will play a central role, with a focus on translating complex engineering scenarios into solvable mathematical representations.
Students will engage with case studies relevant to smart infrastructure, transportation systems, sustainable energy, and urban planning to hone their problem-solving skills.A significant emphasis will be placed on numerical methods, empowering students to select, implement, and critically evaluate the performance of algorithms for solving engineering problems.
The module will guide students in applying these methods to optimize processes, analyze data, and simulate dynamic systems, ensuring solutions are robust, efficient, and applicable to the evolving demands of smart places.By the end of this module, students will have cultivated a holistic skillset in computational modelling and numerical problem-solving, preparing them to tackle interdisciplinary engineering challenges with confidence and innovation.
This module will review the field of sustainability.
Firstly, we will conceptualise sustainability, its history and the challenges to sustainable development.
Methods of estimating life cycle carbon emission and ecological impacts will be critical analysed.
The process of risk assessments in the context of the renewable energy industry, will also be discussed.Next the module will consider the topic of energy consumption and usage, most notably in the heating of buildings and transportation (both of which represents the bulk of final energy consumption).
This shall include estimating the energy consumption of buildings depending on climate conditions and the options for improving building performance and estimating of heat load, boiler requirements, etc.
Transportation shall also consider the environmental impact of transportation as well as the design of urban areas, public transport, its benefits and limitations.
Finally, we will review the application of renewable energy resources for the design of appropriate renewable energy systems; including autonomous off-grid systems, as well as the methodology and rationale for grid connection.
Systems control and energy storage on both a micro and macro scale will be considered next.
This shall include Economic and environmental impact of energy systems.
Hydro electric systems design, including water turbine selection and Flow Duration Curve analysis for optimisation of energy yield will be presented.
Wind energy design shall also be considered, including the site selection and estimation of performance.
What are the entry requirements for Digital Technologies for Smart Cities?
We look for applicants to have a background in engineering, physical sciences, mathematics or computer science in order to be eligible for the programme.
Can I get admission into Digital Technologies for Smart Cities based on my working experience in this sector?
In the era of urbanization, cities are the epicenters of innovation and growth.
Graduates from the MSc in Digital Technologies for Smart Cities program are equipped with a unique set of skills that make them highly desirable in a variety of sectors.
Here are some potential career paths:
Throughout the course, you'll delve into a diverse array of topics, from IoT and Autonomous Systems to Modelling and Computation for Smart Places.
Through interdisciplinary projects and collaborative initiatives, you'll gain practical experience applying digital technologies to tackle real-world challenges in automation, energy, and networking.
Upon completion, you'll emerge as a visionary leader, equipped to shape the future of urban living through the strategic application of digital technologies.
Whether you aspire to work in city planning, urban development, or technology consultancy, our MSc in Digital Technologies for Smart Cities will provide you with the knowledge and skills to make a lasting impact in the evolving landscape of urban innovation.
As a Smart City Planner, you will utilize your strategic vision and technological expertise to shape the cities of tomorrow.
In this role, you will be tasked with designing and implementing innovative solutions to enhance sustainability, efficiency, and livability in urban environments.
Your responsibilities will span from conceptualizing smart infrastructure projects to coordinating with various stakeholders, including government agencies, urban planners, and technology providers.
You will find yourself leveraging cutting-edge technologies such as Internet of Things (IoT), data analytics, and artificial intelligence to create connected ecosystems that optimize resource usage, improve public services, and foster economic growth.
As a Smart City Planner, you will tackle complex challenges such as traffic congestion, energy consumption, and waste management, using data-driven insights to inform decision-making and drive positive change.
Whether it's implementing smart transportation systems, deploying sensors to monitor air quality, or designing sustainable urban landscapes, your role will be instrumental in creating cities that are more resilient, equitable, and inclusive.
Your passion for urban innovation and commitment to sustainability will drive you to explore new possibilities and collaborate with stakeholders to realize the vision of a smarter, more livable future.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-sound-design-postgraduate-full-time:
The MSc Sound Design degree is composed of two main components: taught classes and a research project.
Each element is designed to apply theory and advanced practice to enhance current approaches to sound design for both linear and interactive media.
The full-time MSc Sound Design is delivered over 12 months, with part-time options available over 27 or 39 months.
All modules are available either face-to-face or online for distance learners.
Throughout the programme, you will develop a deep understanding of how to assess and influence audience perceptions of linear and interactive media through sound design.
Additionally, you will gain skills in audio programming and the application of AI within audio and sound design.
Emphasis is placed on adhering to professional standards for the production and documentation of sound designs, and becoming familiar with a comprehensive set of methods for assessing listening experiences.
A variety of teaching and learning methods are used in this programme and you will be encouraged to take responsibility for your own learning with support from academic staff.
The emphasis is on developing an online learning community where students and staff learn together in informal networks.
You will receive a solid grounding in the research skills needed at master’s level.
The teaching approach varies according to the module.
Some have online lectures and tutorials, whereas others involve one to one meetings using communication technology.
International experts contribute pre-recorded and live interactive online lectures.
Recent examples can be seen on the Sound Design blog.
This will be further supported by module teams with online material and discussion forums using a variety of communication technologies such as Moodle (the university’s current Virtual Learning Environment (VLE)), and video conferencing tools such as Teams.
The programme has an emphasis on meeting real-world challenges so that practice is underpinned by a solid understanding of relevant theory and evidence-based knowledge.
A variety of both formative and summative assessment methods are used in the programme.
Each module is assessed on whether you have met its learning outcomes.
Formative feedback is provided to provide you with information on how you are progressing and to provide you with constructive guidance to inform your development.
Assessment methods include the use of essays, reports, reflective journals and projects.
Peer critique is an important facet, and you will receive guidance on how to give and take criticism at a professional level, and consistent with the norms for academic publishing.
At the start of the Programme, you will have access to a dedicated programme site on Moodle which enables you to engage and interact with a variety of learning support materials containing all the information you need to know about your programme, the School of Computing, Engineering and Building Environment, and studying at the University more generally) as well as programme-level activities.
You will also be given a student email account and access to our student-focused online information service myNapier.
When you arrive the induction programme will give you the opportunity to meet with your programme leader, personal development tutor and other students on your programme and to learn more about your programme and the University.
During your studies, you will have access to student support services such as academic skills which offers a range of workshops and online courses and materials to help you develop skills you need to tackle University assessment effectively.
Our careers service, Student Futures, will support you with all your career and development needs such as exploring career options and finding jobs, setting up placements and work experience, writing CVs and making applications.
You will be allocated a Personal Development Tutor who will guide you through the induction process and offer advice and support as needed during the duration of your course.
You will meet with your PDT each term to review your progress and development.
Subject specific support for Students Additional support with software development is provided through Programming Surgeries, which are available to all students.
These surgeries are run by fellow students and are a supportive environment to ask for additional technical advice and support.
During your studies, the primary mechanism of academic support is the module team.
You will learn how to use the latest artificial intelligence technologies for audio and sound design.
This module will introduce students to the concepts and the skills and knowledge to understand and use these new tools effectively in their ongoing practice.
Students will learn how these technologies are developed using python, as well as how to choose and use deep learning models for audio and sound design related tasks.
They will integrate these technologies into creative workflows and learning how to adjust and train for bespoke tasks and evaluate their effectiveness.
This module offers you an in-depth examination of audio effects and processing techniques, essential for advanced studies in sound design and audio production.
Through a structured curriculum, you will engage with critical concepts, integrating both theoretical frameworks and practical applications, equipping you with the skills necessary to innovate within the field of audio engineering and sound design.
Assessments are designed to encourage analytical and creative abilities, requiring you to conceptualise and develop original VST plugins, including user interfaces, thereby demonstrating their technical expertise and design proficiency.
You will study the properties of sound, which are also known as acoustics.
This includes vibration, waves and transmission.
You will then progress to psychoacoustics, which relates to hearing, and includes: anatomy, mechanisms and processes.
Listening is then addressed in terms of: objects, music and language.
Soundscapes, or the unique listening experience of a place, identity and memory are explored.
Finally different approaches of Perceptual Audio Evaluation are considered, specifically: design, procedure and analysis.
You will begin by considering different types of interactive media, such as Auditory Displays, Video Games, and Sound Art, and their evolution and patterns of use over recent decades.
Interactive media production methods are then surveyed, which include: requirements gathering, dialogue editing, dialogue recording, location recording, foley, sound editing, sampling and synthesis, programming and testing.
Strategies for planning are examined, incorporating: event mapping, actions (triggers, cues, events), emotions, duration, variation and interactivity.
Finally approaches to implementing sound design are reviewed, which comprises: palette, mix, elements, parameters, memory/stream management, geometry, and environments.
This module provides you with a comprehensive understanding of sound design for theatre, radio, audiobooks, film, television, and animation, equipping you with both theoretical knowledge and practical skills.
You will explore production methods such as location recording, Foley, dialogue editing, ADR, re-recording, sound editing, sampling, and synthesis, alongside script analysis strategies focusing on explicit sounds, environments, emotions, transitions, and sound maps.
The module also covers field recording, sound library management, mixing, and re-recording techniques, including spatialisation, predubbing, and final mix workflows.
Specialised topics in theatrical sound, radio production, and animation introduce cueing systems, voice processing, acoustic considerations, and sound-image relationships.
Throughout, you will examine how sound influences audience perception, exploring techniques such as sound imagery, listening modes, emotional expression, and spatial positioning to enhance engagement.
By the end of the module, you will have the critical and practical skills needed to create expressive and impactful audio for linear media.
You will engage in an advanced exploration of the fundamental properties of sound, beginning with acoustics, examining vibration, waveforms, and transmission, before progressing to psychoacoustics, which critically analyses hearing mechanisms, auditory processing, and cognitive influences on sound perception.
The module interrogates listening processes, evaluating how individuals interpret language, spatial perception, and auditory scenes, alongside the role of soundscapes in shaping place, identity, and memory.
You will critically examine environmental sound, spatialisation, and aural architecture, as well as the implications of hearing disorders and impairments, including noise-induced hearing loss and presbycusis, on sound design and audience perception.
A key focus is on sound mapping and classification methodologies, developing the ability to evaluate and document listening experiences using repertory grid techniques, listener evaluations, and qualitative analysis.
Throughout, you will apply these principles to a sound design project within your chosen form of media, integrating psychoacoustic research and listener feedback to inform creative and technical decision-making.
This module synthesises theoretical frameworks, research-led inquiry, and advanced practical application, ensuring a rigorous and reflective approach to contemporary sound design.
The entry requirement for this course is a Bachelor (Honours) Degree.
Can I get admission into Sound Design based on my working experience in this sector?
Completing this MSc in Sound Design offers graduates a multitude of employment and further study opportunities.
In the realm of employment, graduates can delve into the thriving game development industry, assuming roles such as Audio Designer, where they craft sound effects and music for video games, or as Audio Programmers, developing audio-related software.
Opportunities also abound in the film and television sector, with roles like Foley Artist or Sound Designer.
The expanding field of Virtual Reality (VR) and Augmented Reality (AR) presents avenues for specialization as VR/AR Sound Designers, creating immersive auditory experiences.
Beyond entertainment, roles in interactive media and experiences, educational game development, and e-learning content creation offer diverse career paths.
For those considering further study, a PhD in audio or a related field provides opportunities for advanced research, pushing the boundaries of technology and methodology.
Entrepreneurial options include establishing a studio focused on interactive audio or freelancing to offer services across various projects.
Networking through industry events and collaboration on projects with peers further enhances prospects.
Graduates can also explore cross-disciplinary applications, adapting their interactive audio skills to fields like healthcare or emerging technologies.
Continuous skill development, staying updated on industry trends, and maintaining a solid professional network are essential for a successful and dynamic career in interactive audio.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-sound-design-postgraduate-part-time:
3 years

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-sound-design-postgraduate-distance-learning:
The degree is made up of three parts: taught classes, work-based learning, and a research project.
All of these elements are designed to apply theory and advanced practice to enhance current approaches to sound design for linear and interactive media.
The MSc Sound Design is delivered over either 18 or 30 months on a part-time basis.
All of the modules are delivered by distance learning.
In addition, you will also develop a deep understanding of how to assess approaches of affecting audiences perceptions of linear and interactive media using sound design.
Emphasis is placed on cognisance with professional standards for the production and documentation of sound designs for linear and interactive media, and familiarity with a comprehensive set of methods of assessing listening experiences.
18-30 months
"I really liked the syllabus at Edinburgh Napier University and the opportunity to hear from professional guest lecturers who have wide-ranging experience in different fields of sound design."
In the first year, you will study Advanced Professional Practice (APP) for three trimesters.
This allows you to tailor your learning needs to those of your organisation or the relevant industries.
During the first year, you will also study one module per trimester: Sound design for linear media, Listening and Sound design for interactive media.
These modules will be taken in the order determined by the date of entry to the course.
Each module is independent of the others.
One objective of the APP module is for you to apply immediately, in your practice, the knowledge gained from these three taught modules.
After successful completion of the year, you will be eligible for a PG Dip Sound Design.
In the second year, you will complete your MSc dissertation in part-time mode, taking control of your studies to produce a substantial piece of focused academic research.
Success in the dissertation module indicates an ability to work independently, so you are expected to take the initiative and manage your own project.
In effect, you are undertaking independent research as an apprenticeship to an experienced academic supervisor.
Within the first few weeks of the Advanced Professional Practice module, under the direction of your academic supervisor you will develop your own learning agreement, which defines the deliverables of this module.
If you are an employee, you will do this in negotiation with your organisation.
If you are freelance, you may either negotiate with key clients or discuss an equivalent with your supervisor.
Your supervisor will mentor you throughout the three trimesters towards the achievement of the deliverables.
You will provide a reflective journal on your learning.
What are the entry requirements for Sound Design ?

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-data-science-postgraduate-online-learning:
Data science is a major growth area within both the commercial and public sectors and there is a shortage of professionals that have the required range of data science knowledge and skills.
This work-based learning MSc Data Science programme addresses this shortage.
The programme is aimed at those working in a data-related role within their organisation, whether in a technical, software or business context and want to enhance their skills and understanding of contemporary data analysis tools and techniques.
Edinburgh Napier University has excellent research and knowledge transfer links with many local, national and international organisations in data science related areas.
The acquisition of knowledge and skills on the programme will enable students to drive improvements within their organisations, enabling them to focus on areas of specialisation within their professional field and to broaden their knowledge and skills to enhance their career development.
Delivered online (part-time), this MSc is ideally suited to individuals who intend to balance their personal and professional commitments and study while working.
The deadline for September 2025 applications is 1st August 2025.
The deadline for January 2026 applications is 5th of December 2025.
24-33 months
Jan Jun
You will develop the business understanding and analytical, statistical and computing skills required to contribute to this vital field.
Linking learning and development to your work activities, you can ensure that your professional development is part of the strategic plan of your organisation to promote innovation and change.
By linking learning and development directly to work activities, students can ensure that their professional development is part of the strategic aims of the organisation.
Students will also have the opportunity to consider and reflect on established views of the organisation and processes relating to data science, in order to promote innovation and change.
For the award of MSc Data Science you must successfully pass all five modules, giving a total of 180 credits.
To allow you to settle in to the programme and to have some underpinning to base the Advanced Professional Practice module on, you will initially study one module (the 20 credit module available in the trimester you start).
After this first module, the programme leader will then discuss and agree with you the next module(s) to select.
Depending on this discussion, the minimum duration may be longer than 24 months.
This course is delivered fully online and the online materials have been designed to support you to study at a place and pace which suits your needs.
Your employer is required to provide support, and to give permission for you to use for academic credit purposes a project (or series of related projects) within your workplace, which are part of your planned work activity and undertaken during normal working hours.
The entry requirement for this course is a Bachelor (Honours) Degree at a 2:2 or above in an appropriate field, for example, software development, computing, or business analytics.
Applicants will be expected to be working in a role related to data analytics, whether in a technical or business context and will be required to provide a letter of support from their employer.
Some experience of associated technologies such as databases, software development and related tools is assumed.
Can I get admission into Data Science based on my working experience in this sector?
We run a suite of Executive Masters courses for organisations looking to upskill their staff and professionals looking to develop new skills and advance their career.
The Data Science degree at Edinburgh Napier University provides a comprehensive education in various skills and knowledge areas, allowing you to tackle real-world problems and extract insights from data to drive business decisions and innovation.
You will learn about Data Analytics, Data Wrangling, Data Driven Decision Making etc.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/study-with-us/apprenticeships/beng-hons-cybersecurity-ga:
This Graduate Apprenticeship allows you to enhance your skills and improve your career prospects in the field of Cybersecurity by studying for a fully-funded university degree while in a paid, relevant job role.
You will be equipped with the academic skills, industry accreditation and work experience that will give you a competitive advantage in a demanding marketplace.
You will gain an enhanced knowledge of cybersecurity and develop the skills to adapt to challenging situations across a global computing infrastructure.
This Graduate Apprenticeship provides relevant fundamental knowledge related to cybersecurity such as encryption and authentication, and also provides relevant practical examples through lab-based practice, while emphasising engineering practice.
Our Graduate Apprentices will typically initially work in job roles such as IT Support, Helpdesk, Technician, Analyst and Junior Engineer .
They may also be in more senior level roles within IT more broadly, but looking to enhance their Cybersecurity skills.
You will not be expected to undertake a cyber related role right away, but should aim towards working in this area as you progress into the latter stages of the course.
This should be supported by your employing organisation.
Successful graduates go onto enhance their careers in roles relating to Cybersecurity including Consultant, Engineer, Architect, Ethical Hacking, Forensics and Penetration Testing .
You will initially gain a broad knowledge and the related skills required to understand the basic concepts needed for a career in a computing-related field.
In year 2 you will be taught specific concepts to allow you to apply to apply elements of security and digital forensics expertise.
In years 3-4 you will undertake significant work-based learning and gain the ability to apply professional standards to the analysis, design, testing, evaluation and modification of reliable and maintainable software.
In addition, you will be able to develop critical, analytical and problem-solving skills in relation to computing issues.
As you progress through the course, more of your job role will be used to gain credit towards your final award.
This is captured in the Professional Practice modules which allow us to personalise your learning to ensure it meets your needs, those of your employing organisation and the university.
You attend classes one day per week, in years 1 and 2, studying 2 modules per day.
Professional Practice modules are work based and timetabled in the summer trimester, for which there is no on-campus requirement, offering greater flexibility.
In years 3 and 4 the emphasis on work-based learning increases and on-campus teaching is significantly reduced.
You need to be employed with a supporting organisation to be eligible, and must have a job within the same field as your chosen subject area.
You will be considered through our Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) process and asked to provide evidence of relevant work experience through a detailed CV or application form, including an employer reference.
Our Minimum Offer Entry Requirement: BBCC.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/study-with-us/apprenticeships/bsc-hons-data-science-undergraduate-fulltime:
The BSc (Hons) Data Science Graduate Apprenticeship will equip you with the skills, knowledge, and behaviours to make a valuable contribution in one of Scotland’s most in-demand skill-sets.
You will enhance your skills and improve your career prospects in the emerging field of Data Science by studying for a fully-funded university degree while in a paid, relevant job role.
Throughout, you will obtain the requisite underpinning of technical knowledge, combined with key capabilities in data governance and the application of ethics, with a focus on well-rounded professional skills and behaviours.
Companies are increasingly looking at ways to develop technology through machine learning and data-driven analytics and require fresh talent to deliver ground-breaking results.
You will be taught both the theory and practical elements of the subject: manipulating and analysing big data sets to draw meaning and understanding that affect our everyday lives.
You can then apply your learning immediately in the workplace to solve real-world problems, allowing you to accelerate your career, and your employer to have the most up-to-date skills in their business.
Our Graduate Apprentices will typically initially work in job roles such as Data Analyst, Document Controller, Data Coordinator, Business Intelligence and Finance/Calculations Analyst .
They may also be in more senior level roles within IT more broadly, but looking to enhance their Data Science skills.
You will not be expected to undertake a data related role right away, but should aim towards working in this area as you progress into the latter stages of the course.
Successful graduates from this course have gone onto enhance their careers and progress through their company in areas such as:
You will develop abilities across the core and emerging areas of data science including statistical techniques, data analytics, data engineering, as well as machine learning and artificial intelligence.
You will gain the requisite underpinning technical knowledge combined with key capabilities in data governance and the application of ethics, and well-rounded professional skills and behaviours.
A key part of the Data Science GA is that each of the eight key content areas are combined to deliver a holistic learning experience.
These are:
To enter this programme at the start of Year 3 you must have 240 SCQF credits (or equivalent) of which a minimum of 120 credits are at SCQF 8 (or equivalent) AND/OR significant recognition of prior learning (RPL) through industry-related experience, qualifications, and informal learning.
here are many data science jobs available.
What do Data Scientists do?

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/study-with-us/apprenticeships/bsc-hons-it-management-for-business-ga:
The Graduate Apprenticeship in BSc (Hons) IT Management for Business helps develop your knowledge and understanding of IT in a business and organisational context.
You will learn the fundamentals of computing then delve into the intricacies of IT management, such as Business Analysis, Project Management, Service Management and Operations.
Through the Graduate Apprenticeship, you apply these skills immediately in real-world situations in the workplace, and learn how to seamlessly integrate business systems to support your organisation.
You will develop a unique hybrid skill-set all while studying for a fully-funded university degree through a paid job.
This Graduate Apprenticeship combines theory and practice, and develop your career in the broad area of IT with a background of business operations, procedures and culture applicable to a career in IT in a business environment.
You will develop problem solving, personal and interpersonal skills enabling you to work closely with employees in non-IT related areas of an organisation.
You will also enhance your management and business knowledge and be equipped with project management and delivery experience in a practical, work-based setting in relation to IT.
Development of this unique blend of skills will underpin an ability to keep your technical skills up-to-date in a fast-changing discipline, including an appreciation of the need for continuing professional development .
The key component areas that make up the Graduate Apprenticeship in BSc (Hons) IT Management for Business are:
Our Graduate Apprentices will typically initially work in job roles such as IT Support, Helpdesk, Technician, and Application Support .
You can then develop your knowledge and experience through both work and study to develop your career in a variety of managerial and leadership roles within an IT context.
You will initially develop your fundamental skills and knowledge in computing, core business processes, and how these are typically implemented in a technology setting within organisations.
You will develop an ability to use a wide range of routine skills in software development and some advanced skills associated with business modelling.
You will then further enhance your ability to apply these skills and techniques through various management stream within your employing organisation.
These include Business Analysis, Project Management, Service Management and Business Intelligence.
In years 3-4 you will undertake significant work-based learning and develop the ability to apply skills, techniques, practices, tools and materials that are specialised or advanced in information systems project management, and the analysis, design and implementation of user-centred organisational systems .
In addition, you will be able to consult, evaluate and present on standard or mainstream topics in IT to a range of audiences, both technical and non-technical.
This is captured in the Professional Practice modules which allow us to personalise your learning to ensure it meets your needs, those of your employer and the university.
On completion you can build their career in an IT workstream within disciplines such as:

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-robotics-and-autonomous-systems-engineering-postgraduate-full-time:
Robots and autonomous systems are adopted into our daily lives and have important roles in a range of modern engineering disciplines including computer science, mechanical engineering, electrical and electronic engineering.
Robotics and autonomous systems engineering is a multidisciplinary scientific and technological field applying complex systems (robots) to perform tasks done traditionally by human beings.
The importance of robots and autonomous systems lies in their strong economic contribution across diverse global market sectors.
This exciting Masters course offers students the opportunity to study the most exciting aspects of Internet of Things, mechanical design, electronics and communication and apply them to the design and manufacture of smart autonomous systems.
The programme comprises a mix of core principles of this emerging field of autonomous systems.
It provides a broad coverage of all of the major disciplines in automation, process industry and network analysis.
This exciting course is suitable for engineering, computing and physical science graduates who are interested to work in areas where robots are used for many important applications including industrial manufacturing, transport, logistics, automobile manufacture, autonomous driving, space exploration, surveillance, emergency and rescue, education and health care.
The adoption of robots in industries worldwide has increased significantly in recent years.
With current innovations and the rate of growth, we will likely see robots replace many manual tasks and generate opportunities for more qualified jobs.
This course is technology-focused and will create several opportunities for acquiring and applying technical skills and expertise in robotics and autonomous systems.
This one year postgraduate degree will equip its graduates with skills that will be of immediate use and will also develop them for senior technical and research leadership roles in future.
With the growing demand for highly skilled professionals within worldwide market manufacturers, successfully completing this course will provide a distinctive skill set that graduates will find useful in securing employment globally.
This MSc will cover two major aspects (hardware and software) of robotics and autonomous systems.
The two core modules (Wireless Sensors and Mobile Communications and Automation and Robotics) aim to cover  three components autonomous robots: sensors, controllers and actuators.
The other two core modules (IoT and Autonomous Systems and Advanced Embedded Systems) aim to cover the theoretical fundamentals and practical applications of decision-making, problem-solving, and learning abilities in software tools used for robots.
This course consists of five compulsory core modules and two optional modules.
Core Modules: Automation and Robotics (MEC11107) Wireless Sensors and Mobile Communications (ELE11119) IoT and Autonomous Systems (ELE11118) Advanced Embedded Systems (ELE11120) MSc Project (ENG11100) Optional Modules: Two modules to be selected from the following list.
Human-Robot Interaction (CSI11102) Modelling and Computation for Smart Places (ELE11117) Network Security (CSN11111) Research Through Design (CSI11101) Mechatronic Systems (MEC11114) Research Skills and Project Management (MEC11117)
There are two trimesters of taught modules, followed by an individual MSc project during the third trimester.
A standard module is equivalent to 200 hours of learning and on successful completion of each module you will achieve 20 credits towards your chosen award.
The duration of this programme is 12 months with September entry.
The module content will be based on three main areas of embedded systems.
The first section will consider the use and application of modern smart sensing devices to cover a range of measurements.
These will then be used in distributed systems to put together complete instrumentation systems.
The final stage will be the integration of instrumentation systems into the control of industrial plant.
With the growing presence of automation, machine learning, and personal assistants, the engagements with intelligent machines are ubiquitous (i.e., Yuksel, Collisson, Czerwinski, 2017, Brooks, 2019).
The module is focused on introducing Human-Robot Interaction as a relevant and important field of study within current computing and User Experience trends.
It aims to create an understanding of the relationships between humans and robots, to facilitate smooth integration and better experience during interaction in both, private and public contexts.
This multidisciplinary research area draws from Human-Computer Interaction, Cognitive Psychology, understanding of Robotics and Artificial Intelligence.
The mechatronic approach will be stimulated and rewarded by applying it to the design of a practical product or process that would offer some enhanced performance compared with other alternatives.Mechatronic design process:Definitions of Mechatronics, advantages of microprocessor system control, Mechatronic design process: product and process design applications, advantages of Mechatronic design approach.
Evaluate current technology developments that have improved mechatronic design of products or processes.Design a product or process using a Mechatronic design methodology: Conceptual design: user requirement specification, embodiment design, standards, safety regulations: selection of measurement system, controller hardware and software, actuator system, signal conditioning, human-machine interface; design of application program; integration of components.Evaluate a Mechatronic design application: Reliability, accuracy, speed of response, productivity, robustness, ease of maintenance, minimisation of capital and running costs, ease of manufacture, product quality.
Evaluation of design procedure.
This module aims to improve students' skills in two critical academic and professional areas: conducting comprehensive literature reviews and managing research projects.The first part of the module focuses on literature review techniques.
Students will learn methods for identifying, evaluating, and synthesising scholarly sources to build a strong foundation for their research.
Essential skills include searching and assessing various information sources, critically analysing and interpreting existing research, and identifying gaps in the literature.
The module also teaches practical strategies for organising and writing a literature review that aligns with a specific research question or hypothesis.The second part of the module provides a comprehensive overview of research project management.
It covers all project stages, from inception to completion, and equips students with essential skills in teamwork, information searching, and utilising various information sources.
Additionally, students will learn project management principles, focusing on risk management, time management, and cost control.By the end of the module, students will be proficient in conducting thorough literature reviews and managing research projects effectively.
In this module you will be introduced to research through design approaches that can offer rich insights that impact the process of innovation and design.
You will be encouraged to empathise and understand user needs requirements in relation to day to day activities/tasks/experiences.
You will be responsible for your learning through discovery and delivery of a project based on evidence and rigour to research and a target user group understanding.
Research through design approaches encourage exploring uncertainty and developing curiosity to trust your expertise and professional competence.
The module comprises of thematic areas covering the most essential aspects of wireless systems.
Beginning with the presentation of the fundamental parts of wireless systems, a detailed analysis of each component will follow, namely, antennas, propagation channels, and digital modulation.
A more detailed description of provisional topics can be seen below.A.
Fundamentals of wireless systems: Major components, Block diagrams.B.
Antennas: Fundamental antenna parameters, Antenna performance and design metrics, Antennas as part or wireless systems, Transmitting and receiving antennas for point-to-point communications and Friis transmission formula.C.
Propagation channels: Propagation mechanisms, Path loss modelling (including Friis transmission formula), Shadowing statistical modelling, Multipath propagation stochastic modelling.D.
Digital modulation: Baseband and passband signals, Nyquist theorems for signal interference and reconstruction, Digital modulation techniques, Demodulation and detection performance.
What are the entry requirements for Robotics and Autonomous Systems Engineering?
The entry requirements for this course is a Bachelor (Honours) Degree at a 2:2 or above with a background in Engineering, Physical Sciences or Computer Science.
Can I get admission into Robotics and Autonomous Systems Engineering based on my working experience in this sector?
From manufacturing units to experimental robotics for medical, military and automotive industries, the future of robotics finds tremendous opportunities for its budding professionals.
Robotics Engineering is considered a high-end professional career worldwide.
You could be potentially working in the following sectors:
There is a great demand for robotic engineers in the gaming industry and manufacturing units as well.
This field can offer jobs like service and repair as well as designing and creating the interfaces and systems.
It’s a multi-disciplinary field with growing opportunity as the industry expands.
Throughout the course, you will delve into a wide range of topics, from IoT and autonomous systems to network security and mechatronic systems.
Through hands-on projects and practical exercises, you'll gain experience working with state-of-the-art robotic platforms and developing innovative solutions to real-world challenges in fields such as manufacturing, healthcare, and transportation.
This MSc can provide career opportunities, including jobs in the automotive industry, aerospace industry, medical robots, offshore energy and advanced industrial quality control.
This course also provides outstanding research opportunities, such as doing PhD in different fields related to Robotics, IoT and Autonomous systems.
After completing this degree, you will emerge as a highly skilled and visionary robotics engineer, ready to push the boundaries of what's possible in the field of robotics and autonomous systems.
As a Robotics Engineer, you will be able to use passion for innovation and problem-solving to shape the future of robotics and automation.
In this role, you'll design, build, and deploy robotic systems that revolutionize industries ranging from manufacturing and healthcare to agriculture and space exploration.
You will be collaborating with interdisciplinary teams to develop robots that can navigate complex environments, manipulate objects with precision, and perform tasks with human-like accuracy.
From mechanical design and electronics integration to software development and sensor calibration, your days will be filled with creativity and collaboration as you bring robots to life.
As a Robotics Engineer, you will push the boundaries of what's possible with robotics.
You will be leveraging advancements in artificial intelligence, machine learning, and sensor technology to create robots that are smarter, safer, and more versatile.
Whether you're developing autonomous drones, surgical robots, or robots for rehabilitation, your work will have a transformative impact on society, revolutionizing industries and lives all around the world.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-user-experience-design-postgraduate-fulltime:
User Experience is now a dominant specialism in nearly every industry.
Here at Edinburgh Napier, we are the top UK Modern University for Computer Science (The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2023), with specialist labs and facilities that provide an up-to-date learning environment.
The MSc User Experience Design will enable you to truly understand people’s relationship with technology.
You will learn not only an empirical approach but also the empathic skills to truly understanding people and the digital technology they use.
You will learn how to produce low fidelity and fully working prototypes to design for this new discipline.
This course will empower you with the skills to understand human-centred design.
By examining and creating innovative solutions to real world issues you will develop the professional skills demanded in today’s workplace.
Understanding how people want to interact with brands, products and services will furnish you with the skills to bring your expertise to the work place.
This programme is aimed at those from a variety of backgrounds wishing to convert their skills to the area of User Experience Design.
This course will give you an excellent grounding in methods, approaches, and design techniques ready for industry.
For those with an interest in a software or web applications development, you may wish to check our MSc Computing routes.
This full-time course will take up to 1 year (18 months if you are a January start) to complete and will be structured to support you throughout your journey.
You’ll learn by a variety of teaching methods including lectures, guest lectures, tutorials and independent study.
You will be taught through lectures, hands-on tutorials, and blended experiences.
When working on your dissertation and final deliverable, you will receive one-to-one supervision from a specialist member of our team.
The course is assessed through project work, written reports, or essays.
Assessments afford the opportunity for you to drive your personal progression.
Advanced Information Interactions has a focus on online Information Interactions between user, system, and content.
From content perspective, students will explore the design and development of web space content design, the placement and use of information to convey messages and how Online Search Engines utilise and present this information.
From a systems perspective the module will explore how developers of online systems can gain an understanding of search engine optimisation, web analytics and an introduction to information models to identify and evaluate best practices to this presentation of information and explore user's information seeking behaviours to enhance user engagement, interaction, and experience.
Design dialogues will cover the practical methods involved in gathering user requirements with respect to a wide range of interactive applications for work, the web and the home and designing to meet those requirements.
The methods will include techniques such as interviews, observation, modelling of existing practice, participatory design techniques and user and expert based techniques for evaluating system usability.
This module explores the use of divergent thinking approaches to the design development cycle.
You will explore user experience theories and methods with case studies to support the development of design prototypes.
By the end of this module, you will have learned to use both physical and digital prototyping to create playful artefacts using the concepts introduced in the lectures and practical sessions.You will work  in design teams and engage in a client based design sprint to reflect the real world practice of iterative design, client pitching  and prototyping enhancing employable skills.
This module will allow you to expand your professional skills within user experience and service design.
You will learn how to apply a range of methodologies suitable to a variety of organisations and institutions, and in result, enhance your employability.
You will be encouraged to adopt a user-centred approach to design, implementation, and evaluation of products and services.
You will study cross-channel user experiences with an emphasis on pervasive information architecture.
You will learn how to create a coherent experience across products and services at an enterprise level, including development of a brand and an individual design language.
The module also covers user studies and usability testing in an agile environment, using state-of-the-art technology.
We may also consider lesser qualifications if you have sufficient professional work experience within the industry.]
Can I get admission into User Experience based on my working experience in this sector?

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-user-experience-design-postgraduate-parttime:
Here at Edinburgh Napier, we are a top 10 Modern UK University for Computer Science (The Times/Sunday Times), with specialist labs and facilities that provide an up-to-date learning environment.
This part-time course will take up to 2 years to complete and will be structured to support you throughout your journey.
When working on your dissertation and final deliverable you will receive one to one supervision from a specialist member of our team.
We also aim to timetable the programme to facilitate part time study.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/computing/computing-placements:
Choosing to enrol in a placement will offer you a fantastic opportunity to engage in challenging real-world situations, allowing you to apply various theories from the classroom and putting your developing skills to the test.
You will spend time in the workplace ranging from 180 hours to 12 months, gaining real-life, hands-on work experience in a relevant field of study.
Previous students have had the chance to work with leading computing firms during their placement trimester, which have resulted in opportunities for graduate employment.
They provide an opportunity to apply what you've learned through lectures and tutorials to real life working environments.
Jones, et al, 2017).
At Edinburgh Napier, we pride ourselves on our strong links with industry, and that’s why our current and past students have worked with some of the most influential businesses in the computing sector.
Nailah – BSc (Hons) Digital Media and Interaction Design.
Ethan – BSc (Hons) Sound Design
On the following courses, you will have the opportunity to take on a 12-month placement starting in Trimester 1 of your 3rd year*.
*Some of the programmes listed above may be eligible for a placement start date in trimester 2 of your 3rd year.
On the following courses, students will have the opportunity to take on a 180-hour placement, starting in Trimester 1, 2 or 3 during your 3rd or 4th year of studies (course dependent).
On the following course, students will have the opportunity to take on a 180-hour placement, starting in trimester 1 or 2 during your 2nd year of studies.
Sessions include an opportunity to hear from and meet employers and support with all aspects of searching for a placement, from developing your CV and cover letters to interviewing and identifying suitable placement hosts.
The Placement team works closely with employers across the UK and regularly promote the latest placement opportunities directly to you.
Proactive students are also free to source and secure their own placement before verifying it with the Placement team.
Discover more information about the placement process

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/computing/computing-learning-environment:
Within the School of Computing, students have access to cutting-edge labs and equipment they can use throughout their studies.
Have a look at some of our specialist facilities with this interactive tour.
Our expert staff and students are at the forefront of information and technology.
Tour our research labs and facilities to see more.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/computing/cyber-security-at-edinburgh-napier:
Edinburgh Napier University has been a leading hub for cyber security research and teaching for over a decade.
Find out more about the different ways in which we are innovating at the forefront of this essential field.
Our courses
Find out more about our undergraduate and postgraduate cybersecurity training
Facilities
Find out more about the cutting edge virtual and campus environments our students learn in.
News
Get the latest in cyber security developments at the University.
Our Staff
Read more about our teachers and researchers.
Events
Read more about the guest lectures we run to inspire students.
Our Research
Find out more about our internationally-leading research
As t he demand for trained professionals with the ex pe rtise to enter the field of cyber security grows , our teaching of the subject has also grown to fit student needs .
We providing the skills and knowledge needed to succeed at different stages , and in d i fferent models, but always to the highest standard.
W e were made an Academic Centre for Excellence by the National Cyber Security Centre, and in 2024 achieved our Gold award, making us one of only 2 institutions in Scotland and 11 in the UK to do so.
Our undergraduate and postgraduate courses are also certified by the National Cyber Security Centre , meaning students can be sure their education will meet the standards of the industry.
Our teaching is u nderpinned by our research and informed by external partners in law enforcement, the cyber security industry, financial institutions and other knowledge transfer activities.
BEng (Hons) Cybersecurity & Forensics
Postgraduate courses
MSc Cyber Security (Full-time) MSc Cyber Security (Part-time) MSc Cyber Security (Distance learning)
Graduate apprenticeships
BEng (Hons) Cybersecurity (Graduate Apprenticeship)
C27 CyberLab The Cyber Lab on our Merchiston campus has 50 computers available for students to use.
It’s used as a teaching space, and a general hub for cyber security students to carry out practical learning activities, either in a group or individually.
Having been at the forefront of cyber security research and education for over a decade, Edinburgh Napier has a wealth of achievements in the field.
From winning awards in our specific industry at the Cyber Awards, to the Higher Education Industry’s top awards, our teaching and impact has been recognised across the board.
Our spin outs have also been making an impact beyond our walls and garnering attention and engagement.
At Edinburgh Napier University our faculty includes award-winning professionals and leading researchers who are at the forefront of cybersecurity innovation.
Bill Buchanan
Bill was awarded an OBE in the Queen's Birthday Honours List in June 2017, making him the first person in the UK to receive an award for Services to Cyber Security.
In April 2024, Buchanan was elected as a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh (FRSE).
His main research focus is applied cryptography, digital privacy/trust, and digital identity.
Bill’s work has led to many UK/World-wide patents, and three highly successful spin-out companies: Zonefox (zonefox.com); Symphonic (symphonicsoft.com); Cyacomb (cyanforensics.com).
Dr Petra Leimich
Petra is the leader for the Graduate Apprenticeship MSc in Cyber Security, Petra is a Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) and an active researcher.
Her growing reputation in the area of cloud forensics led to an invitation to speak at the ScotSecure Summit in February 2020.
Her current research interests focus on the areas of Digital Forensic Triage, Big Data, Cloud and Distributed Systems Forensics and Incident Response (IR).
Dr Gordon Russell
Gordon has been involved with the development of our cyber security degree programmes here at Edinburgh Napier, including MSc Cyber Security and particularly its online format.
His current research work investigates decrypting messages using keys extracted from active virtual machines, forensic triage techniques to improve the speed of forensics analysis, and detecting cyber attacks on industrial systems including public water supplies.
Dr Nick Pitropakis
Nick is a core member of the Blockpass Identity Lab.
Dr Pitropakis has a strong research background in attacks against machine learning.
His current research interests include adversarial machine learning, trust and privacy using distributed ledger technology, advanced cyber attack attribution, and data science applied to cyber security and IoT device security.
He is currently leading the Horizon Europe project Trust and Privacy-Preserving Computing Platform for Crossborder Federation of Personal Data (TRUSTEE) and has worked on the latest Edinburgh Napier spin out, TrueDeploy.
Rich has been working in the areas of cyber security and digital forensics since 2009.
Rich played a key role in the creation and development of the GCHQ certified MSc Cyber Security and leading the course from 2014.
He has worked on developing online teaching platforms which provide students with virtualised practical learning environments, such as vSOC.
Guest lectures For both our undergraduate and postgraduate students, we invite some of the world’s leading figures in Cyber Security to give talks about key issues and the future of the industry.
Here are some examples of talks we have hosted over the last few years.
Edinburgh Napier University is the top Scottish modern university for both research power and research impact, with 68% of our research assessed as “internationally excellent” or “world leading” in the Research Excellence Framework in 2021.
Our research in the field of cyber security contributed significantly to these results, and below you can see some examples of how our cutting-edge research projects are impacting the real world and transforming lives.
Digital Access Rights
Find out more about our partnership with MIRACL.
COG-MHEAR
Working towards cognitively-inspired 5G-IoT enabled, multi-modal hearing aids.
Blockpass Identity Lab
Our pioneering new research lab exploring blockchain technology.
Explore our internationally leading research and its impact.
Our spin-outs Many of our research projects have spun out into start ups, demonstrating the impact and real world applications of what we do.
Edinburgh Napier is now a top 10 UK university for spin outs , and second in Scotland.
TrueDeploy TrueDeploy helps enterprises improve their software security and protect privacy through innovative distributed ledger and Self-Sovereign Identity (SSI) technology.
The project is led by Pavlos Papadopoulos, who graduated from our MSc Cyber Security, and received his PhD in Privacy-Preserving Systems around Security, Trust and Identity from Edinburgh Napier University.
He was awarded the “Outstanding Young Person in Cyber” award at the Scottish Cyber Awards 2022.
Mr Papadopoulos said: “Our solution helps multiple customer segments, including government and defence, regulated industries in finance and healthcare, and even smaller technology start-ups.
We want everyone across the software supply chain to feel more secure about the software that is driving their organisation.” The project received funding from Scottish Enterprise, and launched in 2023.
ZoneFox ZoneFox is a multi-award-winning cyber security start-up founded and developed by Jamie Graves.
He graduated in 2005 with a BEng (Hons) Computer Networks & Distributed Systems, working in his final year on a project with Professor Bill Buchanan OBE to build a network that would respond to attacks in a similar way to a human immune system.
This developed into a PhD, and eventually spun out into Zonefox, a cloud-based security platform which prevents malicious attacks on an organisation’s IT network.
It was acquired by California-based Fortinet Inc in 2018.
Cyacomb Cyacomb is a spin-out company from Edinburgh Napier University that has been set-up in response to the growing threat of cybercrime and the need to detect illegal content at speed.
The company was originally based on the PhD research work of Edinburgh Napier MSc graduate Phil Penrose into forensic triage.
The triage work was started as Phil’s Masters dissertation project on the first cohort of the course in 2009.
Cyacomb now partners with Police Scotland, who use its ground-breaking tools to rigorously scan digital content at scale, finding and flagging harmful content while protecting database security and user privacy.
Using cutting edge block level hashing technology, it replaces slow MD5 scans, detecting indecent images of children or terrorist material in seconds, enabling law enforcement to evidence up to 100x faster than traditional methods, saving time while on scene.
Horizon-Trustee Utilizing Self-Sovereign technologies and with State-of-the-Art homomorphic encryption, TRUSTEE offers a socially and environmentally-aware framework for cross discipline federation of Data.
At its core is the usage of homomorphic encryption which protects the privacy of data while it is used within data processing.
The technology has a wide range of applications, from how supporting the ISS for research and space missions, to supporting clinical research and healthcare process improvement.
It also has uses in the automotive, education and energy industries.
Founded in 2015 by Rich Macfarlane and the students from Edinburgh Napier University's cyber security courses, ENUSEC focuses on all aspects of security.
With over 120 active members, ENUSEC provides an outlet for learning, understanding, and fostering a friendly community.
The society has a strong record of attending, presenting, hosting, and competing at global events.
While closely linked to the university, ENUSEC's events and membership are open to everyone, regardless of affiliation.
Le Tour Du Hack
Each year, ENUSEC run Le Tour Du Hack, their flagship event, organised by and for Edinburgh Napier University students.
The first day of the conference consists of student and expert talks, with 2024’s event including talks on AI regulation, deepfakes, compliance, risk exposure and more.
The second day is a Capture The Flag event, where teams solve a number of challenges to find a hidden piece of information somewhere in the environment.
Edinburgh Napier has an outstanding history of innovation in cyber security.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/study-with-us/postgraduate/executive-masters:
The majority of learning and study takes place at work or draws on workplace experience.
An Executive Masters degree lets you gain your postgraduate qualification while applying new skills to your job throughout.
Whether you are looking to build new skills in a current role or prepare for your next move, within 18 months you can achieve a respected industry-relevant Masters degree.
Research shows the application and personal reflection of taught concepts to the work situation delivers the most effective learning and development.
For these courses, you need to be employed in a role with opportunities to apply these new skills.
Read our prospectus for more in-depth information about what is involved in the Executive Masters suite at Edinburgh Napier University.
Our Executive Masters degrees are designed to support employers to develop talent in their organisation.
Companies build capability and capacity by giving their people the opportunity to develop themselves through a programme designed to deliver impact on the business.
These courses feature two major components co-designed with the employer: a work-based project delivering immediate impact and a dissertation to advance knowledge in your organisation.
Our courses provide a strategic opportunity for companies to develop their people and their organisation, by harnessing the ambition and developing the vision of their staff.
The work based learning element of the Edinburgh Napier MSc is a key differentiator in building knowledge and skills in programme management and sets it apart from other courses.
Mark Hutton
Programme Manager, Royal London
Edinburgh Napier University delivers the skills and experience that matter.
We combine professional know-how with an academic approach and work-related learning to help our students succeed beyond university.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/computing/student-stories:
2:13
This year's School of Computing group project was sponsored by Computershare.
Find out more about the 2022 winning project.
Students from our MSc Advanced Security & Digital Forensics course share their experiences studying in Full-time, Part-time and Distance Learning modes.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-criminology-undergraduate-fulltime:
We are the top UK modern university for Criminology (1st of 37) - The Times/Sunday Times Good University Guide 2022.
Criminology is the study of crime, explanations for crime and social reactions to crime.
As an interdisciplinary social science subject, criminology draws on a range of perspectives, for example sociology, psychology and law.
Criminology aims to go beyond our common-sense assumptions and explore the complex and contentious nature of crime and criminal justice.
We have a 91% satisfaction rate for our BA (Hons) Criminology course (National Student Survey, 2022).
M900
My studies have been greatly supported by my lecturers, despite obstacles because of the COVID pandemic.
I completed an internship with ‘The Scottish Institute for Policing Research’ in 2021.
Lejla Subasic
BA (Hons) Criminology student
During the four year course, you will develop a clear understanding of the key disciplines which will inform your criminological studies, such as sociology, psychology and history.
You will also develop your skills in research methods, including collecting and analysing both quantitative and qualitative data, and will have an understanding of the ethical issues in criminological research.
As you progress through the course, you will gain theoretical knowledge of key criminological theories, issues in crime control and punishment, as well as specific forms of crime such as violence.
You will also have the opportunity to study a number of optional modules including cybercrime, giving you further insight into the interdisciplinary nature of criminology.
You will put this knowledge and your understanding of research methodologies into practice in your final year by conducting and writing up your Honours Project.
The BA (Hons) Criminology programme takes an innovative approach to learning and teaching.
Your lectures and tutorials will include activities such as debates, group discussions, presentations and case study analysis.
Your lecturers will bring topics to life by drawing on their own diverse experiences of conducting research in Criminology and Social Sciences.
There is also a high level of independent study in the programme.
There is a variety of formative and summative assessments in the BA Criminology (Hons) programme.
You will complete assessed coursework such as essays, reports, reflective portfolios and media analyses.
Other assessments will include poster and oral presentations and debates, examinations, multiple choice tests, project work and exercises requiring computing proficiency.
Your final year honours project will allow you to demonstrate your research skills to the highest level of this award.
You will be assessed on activities that require you to show initiative, critical analysis and research skills.
Our programme benefits from an International Summer school with institutions in the US.
This gives students the opportunity to visit host institutions such as University of West Florida and participate in a programme of activities, including lectures and trips to criminal justice institutions.
'My ride-along was one of the most amazing experiences of the whole trip.
It was great to talk to a sheriff deputy and see their day-to-day life and activities.
It is something you just cannot learn at university but it is so important to understand'.
(Criminology Summer School student on their trip to the USA)
One option from modules such as :
Two options from modules such as:
What are the entry requirements for Criminology?
Please note this course is available only for year 1 entry.
*Literary subjects accepted: Modern Studies, History, Geography, Psychology, Sociology, Religious, Moral and Philosophical Studies, Latin, Theology, Classics and Philosophy, A Level Government and Politics, A Level Classical Civilisation.
By studying Criminology at Edinburgh Napier University, you will become an expert in crime, with an understanding of complex issues across a broad range of cross functional disciplines such as psychology and sociology, gaining deep theoretical knowledge as well as how to apply contemporary issues practically in the field.
You will have excellent written, communication and presentation skills on completion of your degree.
Careers you may go into include local or national government, the voluntary sector, policing, offender supervision and youth justice and youth work.
If you are interested in crime and the justice sector, then this might be the right course for you.
There are numerous charities involved in supporting some of Scotland's most vulnerable young people, including those who come into conflict with the law.
Young people who come into conflict with the law are disproportionately likely to be dealing with multiple forms of deprivation, victimisation and trauma.
Your role would be to work with these young people to help them to address their needs and realise their rights, and as far as possible avoid (further) contact with the justice system.
This is challenging work but vital in helping Scotland's young people to realise their potential.
Daily roles and responsibilities may include:

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-policing-and-criminology-undergraduate-fulltime:
Our Policing and Criminology course allows you the opportunity to study a subject which is applied, equipping you with the knowledge and skills to become a reflective police officer or take on a broader criminal justice role.
The course draws on social sciences, law, computing and business modules, and aims to give you an understanding of a discipline that is evolving theoretically and methodologically.
It links theory to practice and seeks to apply learning in the field.
You will also have a range of inputs from practitioners throughout the course.
The course was developed with discussion and input from Police Scotland.
We have a 86% student satisfaction rate for our Policing & Criminology course (National Student Survey, 2024).
M901
1:30
A key aim of the course is to give you the competitive edge to go on and become a police officer, should you wish.
Although there are no direct routes into the police from this BSc, the programme will link with the Special Constabulary (volunteer police officers) and will have input from Police Scotland, including in the lecture content, the honours project and in placements.
Beyond the police, this course will give you an understanding of the criminal justice system, criminal and deviant behaviour and the broader social, cultural and historical foundations of contemporary criminology.
You will also develop a range of research skills, which will be invaluable in developing your understanding of a wide range of social science issues throughout your career.
Lectures, tutorials, independent study
Ongoing assessments, coursework and exams
The Volunteering and Employability module in year two will be where the students are encouraged to become a Special Constable.
As part of this course, there is an option to study abroad through the Erasmus programme.
With optional modules in:
Optional modules:
Option modules:
What are the entry requirements for Policing and Criminology?
Standard Entry Requirements: BBBB including English or Literary subject*
Minimum Offer Entry Requirement: BBCC including English or Literary subject*
*Accepted literary subjects: Modern Studies, History, Geography, Psychology, Sociology, Religious, Moral and Philosophical Studies, Latin, Theology, Classics, Philosophy, A Level Government and Politics, A Level Classical Civilisation.
By studying policing and criminology at Edinburgh Napier University, you will gain relevant practical and academic knowledge and skillsets, equipping you for a career in policing and the criminal justice sector.
By the end of the course, you will have excellent communication and interpersonal skills.
You will also have developed well rounded research and, critical analysis skills.
You will have developed the ability to operationalise these skills independently taking initiative as well as a member and leader of a team.
Careers you may typically pursue include a pathway in policing (e.g.
constabulary, national services, the private sector), the prison service, the third sector, or civil service.
If you have an interest in social science, the criminal justice sector and policing, and want to pursue a career in police practice, police research, or policing policy development then this might be the right course for you.
A police officer’s main role is to maintain order within the communities they work in, whilst carrying out area patrols, responding to emergencies and making arrests, as well as investigating criminal activities that have taken place.
Policing increasingly involves dealing with public health and social challenges including physical and mental health.
You may also be involved in public outreach campaigns within local communities, such as talking to schools, local businesses.
You will have excellent oral, written and aural communication skills.
You will be empathetic and compassionate.
You will demonstrate effective decision-making skills meet the required fitness standard.
You will hold a full UK manual driving licence.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons--bsc-hons-psychology-undergraduate-fulltime:
Psychology is a fascinating science that gives you an insight into individuals and their unique behaviour.
It involves learning about memory, language, creativity, personality, social interaction and brain processes.
This course gives you a thorough understanding of both the theory and application of psychology, and prepares you for a professional career in psychology or any number of career opportunities.
The applied focus of the course provides you with the opportunity to specialise in the areas which interest you most.
We have a 100 % satisfaction rate for our Psychology courses (National Student Survey, 2024).
C800
You'll learn about the latest research and professional practice in areas such as forensic, sport and work psychology.
Before completing your studies, you'll be able to choose whether to graduate with a Bachelor of Arts (BA) or Bachelor of Science (BSc) qualification.
Both awards are accredited by the British Psychological Society and will make you eligible for the Graduate Basis for Chartership, the first step towards becoming a Chartered Psychologist.
You'll develop a range of practical, intellectual, research and transferable skills, including psychological and social research methods, group working, communication, critical thinking and problem solving.
You'll also gain the skills to source, use and interpret information, design experiments and use related software.
You'll learn by a variety of teaching methods including lectures, tutorials, laboratory sessions and through independent study.
Students can do an optional Trimester abroad in Year 2.
(Trimester 2)
Two options, including:
One applied psychology option, for example from:
Four applied psychology options, for example from:
What are the entry requirements for Psychology?
Higher National Certificate
*Literary subjects accepted: Modern Studies, History, Geography, Psychology, Sociology, Religious, Moral and Philosophical Studies, Latin, Theology, Classics, Philosophy, A Level Government and Politics, A Level Classical Civilisation.
By studying psychology at Edinburgh Napier University, you will gain theor etical and practical knowledge on the human mind which can be applied across a range of disciplines .
You will become an expert communic ator who is able to work effectively both as part of a team and autonomous ly , with strong problem solving and data analysis skills.
You will be able to work within a range of roles, including working in the public sector in local government or councils, as well as within the third and private sector, likely with charities, or in retail, finance and marketing.
You may also choose to go onto postgraduate study to become a professional psychologist or social worker or teach er or social research er .
If you are someone who enjoys problem solving and is interested in human behaviour, then this might be the right course for you.
What does a s ocial researcher do?
As a social researcher, you will study human behaviour and society and related social issues.
You will research these issues which may cover education, health or crime, and find social trends and patterns in order to come up with solutions to problems you have identified .
You will have strong analytical, writing and collaboration skills.
Literature reviews
Data collection
Reporting and record keeping
Presenting findings to stakeholders
Influencing government policy based on research findings

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-psychology-with-sociology-undergraduate-fulltime:
We are a top 5 UK modern university for Sociology in the Complete University Guide 2025.
The course is made up of around 75% psychology and 25% sociology.
This course is accredited by the British Psychological Society and provides eligibility for the Graduate Basis for Chartership, the first step towards becoming a Chartered Psychologist.
We have a 87 % student satisfaction rate for our Sociology courses and 100 % for our Psychology courses (National Student Survey, 2024).
CL84
You'll develop a detailed understanding of the social world, the relationships that operate within it at both an individual and a group level, and the social forces that act on us all: knowledge that can be particularly useful to employers across all sectors.
You'll develop a range of practical, intellectual, research and transferable skills including psychological and social research methods, group working, communication, critical thinking and problem solving.
You will be assessed in a wide variety of ways including examinations, essays, reports, oral presentations, learning logs and reaction pieces.
What are the entry requirements for Psychology with Sociology?
Advanced entry into Year 2 is possible for students with suitable qualifications.
*Literary subjects accepted: Modern Studies, History, Geography, Psychology, Sociology, Religious, Moral and Philosophical Studies, Latin, Theology, Classics, Philosophy, A Level Government and Politics, A Level Classical Civilisation.
A youth worker is responsible for supporting young people and adolescents in overcoming challenges, whilst helping them develop into responsible young adults.
You will typically guide them in personal development activities and provide guidance on their mental health, education and career.
You will have strong empathetic and social skills, and will most likely work with local authorities or within a social care setting.
Mentoring and counselling young people
Arranging group activities
Networking with businesses and local groups to provide additional career and counselling support
Crisis intervention
Record keeping
Assessing progress of young people and planning development goals
Community engagement

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-social-sciences-undergraduate-fulltime:
Gain a comprehensive understanding of society, culture and human interaction and develop relevant skills for employment including the ability to think critically and analytically.
Social sciences offer an insight into many different aspects of our lives as individuals and as part of society.
On this course you have the opportunity to study a range of social science disciplines including criminology, human geography, history, psychology, politics and sociology.
Added to this is an extensive range of optional subjects.
With its wide range of subject matter, this course can carry you into areas as diverse as social care, teaching and commercial or public sector management.
We have a 97 % satisfaction rate for our Social Sciences Course (National Student Survey, 2023).
LC38
Studying the Social Sciences at ENU has allowed me to look at the world in new ways and has helped me develop my analytical and critical thinking skills.
The tutors are amazing.
Eilidh Gough
BA (Hons) Social Sciences Student
This course provides you with knowledge and understanding about the social world but also encourages you to develop wider skills relevant to employment.
You'll have the opportunity to learn about social scientific research on a range of subjects including Scottish cultural identity, environmental politics, social inequalities, the sociology of organisations and social change.
You'll also learn about doing research and carry out your own research projects.
The most important skill you'll acquire on this course is the ability to think critically and analytically.
You'll learn to assimilate and interpret vastly differing viewpoints and information, developing them in the context of social theories and practices.
Your communication and collaborative skills will be enhanced, as will your knowledge of social research methods.
Whether you complete the Honours degree or graduate after three years to progress to further studies in teacher training or social work, you’ll leave with a comprehensive understanding of society, culture and human interaction.
You’ll learn by a variety of teaching methods including lectures, tutorials, laboratory sessions and through independent study.
Mixture of course work, exams and practical
There are options to do work-based learning.
A colleague within the department works on employability.
Erasmus connection in Lithuania: Students have found this really interesting and they study in English at this university.
International Student Exchange Programs (ISEP): We have connections with universities in Australia, Florida and San Diego.
Plus option modules
What are the entry requirements for Social Sciences?
Standard Entry Requirement: BBBC including English or literary subject*
Minimum Offer Entry Requirement: BBCC including English or literary subject*
By studying for a BA in Social Sciences at Edinburgh Napier University, you will gain strong critical and analytical thinking skills that will equip you for a wide range of careers across criminology, psychology, politics, teaching, marketing/journalism, governmental and non-governmental organisations, business, and more!
Not only will you develop highly transferable skills in collaboration, communication, research, and problem solving, which employers widely value, but upon completion, you will also be well-placed to progress further postgraduate study in areas such as psychology, social work and social care, social research, or teacher training.
If you’re ready to join the workforce you would be well placed to seek employment in public services, government, business management, community development, or journalism, to name a few.
A civil servant is a public sector employee who works for government departments or agencies, helping to implement policies and deliver public services.
Community development workers help individuals, families or communities to bring about social change and improve the quality of life in their local area.
They act as the link between communities and a wide range of other organisations (e.g., local authority, business and voluntary sector), such as the police, social workers and teachers.
Journalists gather, verify, and report news and information to the public through different media sources.
Although the role is research-intensive, it is a fast-paced environment that allows for networking and speaking with different people and community members.
There are many different careers graduates can pursue with this degree and some careers may require further study, training and/or work experience, such as Social Work or a Secondary School Teacher, as an example.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-applied-criminology-and-forensic-psychology-postgraduate-fulltime:
Studying applied criminology and forensic psychology at postgraduate level will allow you to develop a range of enquiring, analytical and practical skills benefitting you as a practitioner or researcher.
You’ll have the opportunity of a work placement alongside specialised modules covering areas including the psychology of evidence, international criminology, assessment of offenders, responses to crime, and advanced quantitative and qualitative research methods.
These modules will give you a valuable set of skills for both employment and further research.
Your tutors are all experts in this field.
We also invite external practitioners who bring their practical skills and experience to the course throughout the year.
2:33
You’ll develop a critical awareness of topics at the forefront of criminology and forensic psychology, as well as the contexts and theories that influence practice in these areas.
If you are interested in pursuing a career as a forensic psychologist, our MSc Applied Forensic Psychology may be better suited to your interests as it's been designed for psychology graduates and is accredited by the British Psychological Society, counting as Stage 1 of forensic psychologist training.
The applied focus of this course provides an excellent foundation in risk assessment of offenders, use of forensic interviewing strategies, mediation skills and facial composite construction.
Alongside these skills you’ll also learn directly from leading experts about current research and debates in criminology and forensic psychology which directly affect people at all points in the legal system.
Additionally, you'll acquire excellent transferable research skills in both quantitative and qualitative methods which will enable you to carry out high-quality research in a variety of contexts and with ethical integrity.
Compulsory modules include:
Optional modules include:
Additional costs
Students enrolling in the optional Work Placement module are expected to pay for travel costs
Faye Skelton :
This is a one year full-time course delivered over three trimesters.
You’ll learn by a variety of teaching methods including face-to-face lectures, guest lectures, tutorials, laboratory sessions and independent study.
You will be required to attend classes on our Sighthill Campus which will all take place Monday to Friday between 9am and 6pm.
Some modules may also include some online teaching or support sessions.
You will be assessed by a range of applied coursework including policy briefings and reports, risk formulations, individual and group oral presentations, alongside more traditional assessments such as essays and the dissertation.
Through engaging in an optional work placement related to your course you will explore the concepts, debates, policies, initiatives, and funding related to the area in which you’re working.
The Work Placement module is flexible.
We have programme-sourced placements with a wide variety of organisations, however it is also possible to find your own placement or to use your existing work as long a the placement work is different to your usual role.
The Work Placement module requires you to undertake a minimum of 80 hours work experience with the organisation.
For programme-sourced placements, during trimester 2 you will attend a series of workshops on effective CVs and covering letters, presentation skills, etc.
Work placement organisations will release details of available placements over trimester 2, and you will apply for these as you would apply for a job.
The organisation will usually interview shortlisted students and select the student(s) they would like to offer placements to.
Placements take place over trimester 3.
This module addresses three areas of advanced forensic psychology:1) The development of neuroethics as a body of work to understand and monitor the implications of neuroscience in terms of legal and social responsibility.2) A critical appreciation of some of the ethical dilemmas that are faced by forensic psychologists in their practice within criminal and civil contexts, and an understanding of how research has informed changes in specific aspects of forensic psychology practice over the last 50 years.3) Biological aspects of criminal behaviour including the role of epigenetics in the development of psychopathology and offending, and how catathymic processes and crises drive an individual towards criminal action.
This module introduces you to advanced research skills in psychology and the social sciences.
The content of this module covers three related areas:1) Quantitative research, including applying multivariate statistical analysis techniques using appropriate software (e.g.
principal components analysis, SEM,  cluster analysis)2) Qualitative research, including methods for collecting and analysing qualitative data (e.g.
interviewing, focus groups, documentary analysis etc.).3) Research ethicsYou will have the opportunity to explore these topics across a variety of research examples from criminology and forensic psychology.
This module offers a comprehensive overview of current issues, debates and challenges in applied forensic psychology.
The module provides a series of research seminars to be delivered by professionals actively conducting research or practising within a range of services that interface with the Criminal Justice and Civil Courts Systems in Scotland.
For each seminar a practitioner will describe, analyse and critically engage with a current topic within his/her specialism.
Topics will be underpinned by theoretical explanation and consideration of best practice.
Module content will enable you to engage with a wide range of current topics and applications in forensic psychology.
In class discussion, you will explore a variety of research methods and theoretical frameworks and will discuss tensions or challenges in working within policy at a national and international level.
The module will provide a unique opportunity for you to interact with leading experts and academics in the most currently debated issues and areas of practice in forensic psychology.Current issues in applied forensic psychology could include for example: personality and crime; biological approaches in psychology; the use of psychometrics in relation to establishing responsivity and/or fitness to plead; power dynamics in criminal justice; witness and suspect interviewing; offender profiling; violence risk assessment; psychological trauma in forensic populations; offender rehabilitation; punitiveness and restorative justice; victims?
rights and protection; interpersonal violence; globalisation, terrorism and human rights.
This module will provide you with a critical introduction to the study of criminal justice institutions, practices and participants.
It will examine some of the main elements of responses to crime and victimisation, focusing on theories of punishment, imprisonment, rehabilitation and youth justice in the UK.
It will also focus on current developments and emphases in criminal justice practice with topics such as desistance, reintegration and resettlement, victim-centred justice, restorative justice, treatment and evaluation of interventions (e.g.
cognitive behavioural therapy).
Critical analysis and evaluation of theory, policy and practice will be embedded throughout the module.
Current issues, debates, challenges and subjects in applied criminology and forensic psychology could include for example: narcissism; managerialism and criminal justice; victims rights and protection; stop and search policies; offender profiling; privatisation of prisons; domestic violence; globalisation, terrorism and human rights; recent developments in youth justice; recent developments in restorative justice theories and practices; green criminology; suicide; power dynamics in criminal justice; crimmigration; identity fraud; lie detection; personality and crime; biological approaches in psychology.
Where relevant, topics will be underpinned by explanations of offending behaviour and victimisation.
The module content will flexibly adhere to the different policy/practical developments at a national and international level.
The dissertation is the culmination of the Masters Programme and will draw on your learning over the course of the Programme.
The dissertation is studied independently with the assistance of a supervisor and is a chance for you to academically pursue an area of Applied Criminology/Forensic Psychology of particular interest.
Dissertations can take a range of formats such as empirical research or a systematic review.
The dissertation requires you to put into practice a range of skills developed over the course of the Programme such as: searching and critically reviewing national and international literature, developing a research proposal, applying theoretical frameworks, research design and ethics, data collection (qualitative, quantitative and mixed), data analysis, research writing and dissemination.
To develop knowledge of UK criminal justice systems and the differences between them.2.
To consider the role of psychologists within UK criminal justice systems.3.
To provide a comprehensive overview of the interaction between psychology and the criminal justice system.
To develop a critical understanding of the role of psychological research in informing and enhancing practice.5.
To consider differences between adversarial and inquisitorial legal systems.Indicative content includes: Eyewitness memory and identification of suspects; false and recovered memories; interviewing witnesses and suspects including vulnerable individuals; false confessions; false allegations; detection of deception; investigative and jury decision making; expert witnesses.
The first part of the module aims to engage you in the critical analysis of local and global responses to crime concerns and will explore: cybercrime; organised/corporate crime; terrorism; drugs and crime; human trafficking; international/global policing.The second part of the module aims to engage you in the critical analysis of specific responses to crime within different jurisdictions, including Anglo-America, Scandinavia and low crime countries such as Saudi Arabia and Japan.
Topics will include: how to conduct comparative research on crime and control; comparing criminal justice systems; comparative criminal justice policy making; comparative penal politics; comparative youth justice; comparative responses to victimisation.
This module comprises two work streams.Work stream 1: Risk in Forensic PopulationsRisk in Forensic Populations will explore the biological, social, and psychological risk factors that contribute, both individually and through interacting with one another, to risk of violence and other anti-social behaviours, which may manifest in criminal and/or family law cases.
You will learn about the Structured Professional Judgement (SPJ) approach to risk assessment in both criminal and civil cases, including the application of at least one SPJ risk assessment tool to a sample forensic case.
You will develop the skills to construct, orally present, and be questioned in a mock multi-disciplinary risk management setting about, a formulation of a sample forensic case.
A guest lecturer, who is an expert practitioner in their field, will present a critical evaluation of how risk is assessed, treated and managed in serious offenders in the UK.
You will learn how to think and speak reflectively about your practice, and you will write a reflective diary entry relating to risk assessment and to risk management strategies in the UK.Work stream 2: WitnessesWitnesses will explore three investigative applications that are employed to obtain information from eyewitnesses: investigative interviewing (including UK models such as PEACE and PRICE), facial composite production, and eyewitness identification from CCTV footage.
In each practical session you will develop a critical understanding of the psychological theories that underpin prescribed interviewing and identification practice.
You will expand on this knowledge to explore and evaluate current trends in forensic research.
In addition to your practical classes, you will engage with forensic policy and practice via guest lectures delivered by professional forensic practitioners.
This is indicative content and may change from year to year based on staffing and student feedback:This module provides a critical examination of the interweaving of politics, criminological theory and responses to crime (including but not limited to those in the criminal justice system).
We begin with an overview of key criminological understandings of the causes of crime, setting the scene for theory which will be integrated throughout the module, before discussing the political dimensions of crime and the changing politics of crime control.
The module then discusses policing and crime prevention, before addressing radical and recent ‘zemiological’ (the study of social harm) and abolitionist perspectives on crime.
The module then considers policing, community safety, and criminal justice in their social, historical and political contexts, as well as policy developments in these fields and more radical and abolitionist perspectives.
It concludes with a critical evaluation of ‘evidence-based’ responses to crime, helping to set the scene for you to start thinking about dissertation projects in Tri 2 and 3.
There are three ways in which you can engage with this module.
You should select one approach.a) Edinburgh Napier University has sourced a number of work placements relevant to the MSc Applied Criminology and Forensic Psychology (ACFP) programme.
These placements can be applied for through a competitive process involving the placement provider, and the Student Futures Team.b) You may already be working or volunteering in a role relevant to the MSc ACFP and you may wish to use your ongoing employment (or volunteering) to complete the assessments for this module.c) You may want to pursue a new employment or volunteering opportunity once you have built up experience on the programme and decided where your interests lie.
You could take this approach instead of doing a) or b).
The programme staff, in conjunction with the Student Futures Team will support you in doing this.Through engaging in a work placement, or relevant voluntary work, related to your course you will explore the concepts, debates, policies, initiatives, and funding related to the area in which you will be working.
You will also relate your work experiences to the academic content of your course and reflect on the value of your prior learning.
You will undertake self-assessment and write personal Learning Outcomes to enhance your employability and confidence.
Reflective and critical thinking will be a key part of your submissions.
What are the entry requirements for Applied Criminology and Forensic Psychology?
The entry requirement for this course is a Bachelor (Honours) Degree at 2:2 (or equivalent) in a related subject (e.g.
social sciences, criminology, psychology, sociology, law, humanities, forensic nursing, policing).
Do I need to have my qualification before I apply?
No, it is possible to apply whilst you are in the final year of your degree.
Any offer made will be conditional on you achieving a 2:2 (or equivalent).
Can I get admission into Applied Criminology and Forensic Psychology based on my working experience in this sector?
By studying Applied Criminology & Forensic Psychology at Edinburgh Napier University, you will open the door to numerous and various career paths within the fields of criminal justice and psychology.
This programme provides an advanced understanding of both criminal behaviour and psychological principles, equipping individuals with a diverse skill set for success.
If you are interested in crime-related research and policy, working within the criminal justice system to effect positive change, or working with justice-involved persons, this course may be right for you.
You will develop a range of highly desirable transferable skills that are valuable not only to careers within justice but applicable more broadly across industries requiring critical thinking, research, problem solving and analytical abilities.
Our Alumni have  gone on to work with a range of organisations including Police Scotland, Scottish Prison Service, His Majesty’s Inspectorate of Constabularies, third (voluntary) sector organisations such as Includem and Sacro , His Majesty’s Courts and Tribunals Service, and others have pursued careers in Academia.
Below are just some of the roles you could go into with an MSc in Applied Criminology and Forensic Psychology.
A Case Officer typically handles a variety of responsibilities related to the processing and management of legal cases within the court system.
The specific duties may vary depending on the level of the court (e.g., Sheriff court, High court) and the nature of the cases being handled.
Alumni currently hold Case Officer positions within the Scottish Courts and Tribunals Service where they play a vital role in ensuring the effective and efficient operation of the court system.
Managing the administrative aspects of legal cases with their work contributes to the fair and timely resolution of legal matters, which in turn supports the wellbeing of those involved in court cases.
Policy Officers play a crucial role in shaping the direction and operations of an organisation by ensuring that policies align with its mission, goals, and legal obligations.
They often work closely with leadership, researchers, legal teams, and other relevant stakeholders to create policies that are well-informed, practical, and effective, protecting the public whilst ensuring the justice system is proportionate and fair and human rights upheld.
Many alumni currently hold Policy Officer positions within local or national government or third-sector organisations.
Researchers or Research Officers are valuable to a wide range of agencies/organisations, designing and conducting research which underpins services and interventions as well as informing policy.
For example, you might work in the Scottish Children’s Reporter Administration, Violence Reduction Unit, or third sector organisations.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-applied-criminology-and-forensic-psychology-postgraduate-parttime:
If you are interested in pursuing a career as a forensic psychologist, our MSc Applied Forensic Psychology may be better suited to your interests as it's been designed for psychology graduates and is accredited by the British Psychological Society, counting as Stage 1 of forensic psychologist training.
Students enrolling in the optional Work Placement module are expected to pay for travel costs.
This is a part-time course with flexibility in the number of taught modules taken in each trimester.
The dissertation runs over one trimester.
For example, you might work in the Scottish Children’s Reporter Administration, Violence Reduction Unit, or third sector organisations.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-msc-applied-forensic-psychology-ft-postgraduate-fulltime:
Your learning will be based on what the UK’s two largest employers of forensic psychologists told us that they need in a trainee forensic psychologist.
When you graduate from the Master’s Programme in Applied Forensic Psychology, you will have rigorous analytical skills alongside practical skills, which will set you apart from others competing for the same jobs.
You will enter employment with your eyes open to the challenges that you will face as a criminal justice professional, in terms of the populations with whom you will be working, and in terms of the challenges that are faced by criminal justice sector organisations.
You will be skilled in understanding and conducting research, which you will learn to do to submission standard.
Your robust research skills will enable you to apply independent critical analysis to existing and new theories and practices, throughout your career.
Inclusion : Edinburgh Napier University aims to build a community where all of our members are empowered to fulfil their full potential and find their own unique place in the world.
We don’t just accept difference, we promote and celebrate it.
Find out more here .
I have had a wonderful experience while studying at Edinburgh Napier.
The lecturers genuinely support and listen to the students.
I feel well-prepared for my future career thanks to this program.
Róisín Mccollam
MSc Applied Forensic Psychology Student
You will develop a robust understanding of the psychology research on which forensic psychology practice is based.
This will be complemented by learning some of the real-life skills that forensic psychology practitioners use in their daily work.
You will also have opportunities to engage in critical discussions with experienced forensic psychology practitioners, and with professionals from other criminal justice agencies.
All of this will be underpinned by developing your own research skills to submission standard.
Modules Trimester 1: Evidence and Investigation (20 credits) Assessments and Treatments (20 credits) Advanced Research Skills (20 credits) Advanced Research in Psychological Practice (20 hours)
Trimester 2: Advanced Forensic Psychology (20 credits) Practical Forensic Psychology (20 credits) Advanced Research in Psychological Practice (180 hours)
Trimester 3: Advice and Consultancy (20 credits) Advanced Research in Psychological Practice (Tri 1, 2, + 3) (60 credits)
Lead Academics
What are the entry requirements for Applied Forensic Psychology?
You must have achieved a minimum of 2:2 on the BPS-accredited degree and you must have Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership (GBC) of the British Psychological Society (by completing a BPS-accredited degree or conversion course).
Please note that you will need to provide your BPS accredited degree certificate/comparable BPS accredited conversion qualification AND where applicable, evidence of eligibility for Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership (GBC).
You should apply for this evidence upon application submission and send it to pgadmissions@napier.ac.uk as soon as possible as it can take several weeks to obtain which may impact an offer being made.
By studying Applied Forensic Psychology at Edinburgh Napier University, you will open the door to numerous and various career paths within the fields of criminal justice and psychology.
Our Alumni have since gone on to work with the UK’s largest employers of forensic psychologists; Her Majesty’s Prison and Probation Service (England and Wales) and the Scottish Prison Service.
A degree in Forensic Psychology provides an advanced understanding of psychology research on which the practice of forensic psychology is based.
You will gain robust research skills, critical analysis, and analytical abilities that are valuable for career opportunities in forensic psychology and applicable across various industries.
Get ready to enhance your career prospects.
A Forensic Psychologist applies psychological principles and techniques to the legal and criminal justice systems.
Their work spans a variety of activities and settings, often involving collaboration with legal professionals, law enforcement, and correctional institutions.
They also can work in hospitals, secure children’s homes, police forces, courts, and universities.
Alumni currently hold positions and have been recruited to jobs in Australia, New Zealand, Canada, Barbados, mainland Europe, and the USA.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-pgdip--pgcert-blended-and-online-education-postgraduate-distance-learning:
The Blended and Online Education is a part-time, fully online programme that provides participants with practical opportunities to develop, implement and critically evaluate the use of technology for open and inclusive learning and teaching practices.
Students may be lecturers, course developers, or other professionals who work in a teaching or teaching and learning related role in FE, HE or staff development.
Applicants may be completely new using digital technologies for teaching, or may want to extend their digital education skills.
The programme allows students to develop a personal, evidence-based approach to the use of digital technologies for teaching and learning, and consider the implications for educators, students, colleagues, training departments and educational institutions.
The course includes an academic skills and scholarship in digital education strand to support your development as a digital scholar through your studies and beyond.
This comprises flexible 10-credit modules which run alongside the main modules, providing just-in-time learning to develop your academic writing and research skills at master's level.
The programme is designed to complement a work-based role in education and students can choose to exit with a PgCert (60 credits), PgDip (120 credits) or MSc (180 credits) in Blended and Online Education.
Distance learning (available ONLY as Part-time)
(available ONLY as Part-time)
EDU11100 Introduction to Blended and Online Education (*Keystone module) EDU11111 Supporting the Blended and Online Student Experience (*Keystone module)
EDU11119 Academic Skills for Digital Education
EDU11120 Scholarship in Digital Education
EDU11108 Curriculum Design and Development for Blended and Online Learning (*Keystone module)
**Introduction to Coding and Software
**Researching a Digital Education (10 credit)
**Being a Digital Scholar (10 credit)
EDU11115 Dissertation - Research in Blended and Online Education
*Keystone modules are compulsory and are required for exiting with PgCert in Blended and Online Education.
**Subject to approval.
Your studies will be supported through Edinburgh Napier University’s extensive suite of learning technologies, including our virtual learning environment, online webinars, online assessment and feedback tools, ePortfolio, digital voting system, classroom recording and digital networking spaces.
As an Edinburgh Napier Student, you will have access to our study support services  and a wealth of digital resources including eJournals and eBooks from the library.
What are the entry requirements for Blended and Online Education?
Learning technology, teaching online and student support.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-crime-and-justice-in-practice-postgraduate-full-time:
Explore real-world workings of criminal and restorative justice.
You'll gain an in-depth understanding of how justice processes function both nationally and internationally and critically analyze the impact of justice policy and research, uncovering the complexities that shape modern justice systems.
Acquire advanced research skills, mastering both qualitative and quantitative methods, and diving into ethics and research design.
These skills will empower you to create meaningful, practical solutions in the field of justice.
The MSc Crime and Justice in Practice will help you develop a critical understanding of how contemporary criminal, restorative, and community justice processes work in practice, both at national and international levels.
It will also help your ability to evaluate the role and impact of applied justice policy and research with a critical awareness of the economic, socio-cultural and political contexts that influence the practice of social research in various fields (i.e.
academic, non-governmental, third sector, business, government & policy).
You will use advanced research skills across both qualitative and quantitative methods, with a strong emphasis on ethics and robust research design and have the chance to apply these skills by designing and carrying out an original research project of relevance to practice.
Lead Academics: Dr Francesca Soliman and Dr Andrew Wooff .
Core knowledge and understanding is acquired through lectures, practical activities, seminars, tutorials, online activities, group work and guided independent learning.
Where appropriate and possible, teaching delivered by academic staff will also be supported by guest speakers from criminal justice and related organisations, offering you the opportunity to network with criminal justice professionals and potential employers.
Your participation and critical thinking is encouraged across the programme, and with the Work Placement module in particular, your participation facilitates an experiential approach.
Your learning will be assessed using a range of traditional and authentic coursework assessments, including essays, oral presentations, portfolios, reports, risk formulation, critical reflections, case studies, and learning agreements.
You will be assessed on activities that require you to show initiative and determination to solve problems that require research, creativity and perseverance.
You will undertake both formative (unassessed but feedback provided) and summative (formally assessed) assessments during this degree.
The execution of a dissertation will allow you to demonstrate your thinking skills to the highest level of this award.
Students who choose to undertake the Work Placement module are supported by the Module Leader and Student Futures via a series of compulsory workshops during trimester 2.
These focus on skills such as CV writing, delivering effective interview presentations, writing strong covering letters.
All students on placement are allocated an academic placement supervisor who oversees the placement and must sign off the learning agreement before the placement can commence.
In this module you will explore complex social issues that intersect health and criminal justice systems, such as social and economic inequalities, adverse childhood experiences, vulnerability to violence (particularly gender-based violence in domestic settings), mental health crises, substance use and associated harms such as HIV infection, dementia, and commercial sex work and exploitation.
You will delve into the multidimensional nature of these issues, comparing public health and criminal justice perspectives and examining a range of interventions, legislation, policy, and strategic responses employed by both sectors.
You will critically analyse the synergies and tensions between the disciplinary perspectives of public health and criminology, enhancing your theoretical understanding and evaluation skills.
Reflecting on shared and differing occupational cultures, you will explore the facilitators and barriers to service engagement, gaining insight into the implications for health/justice-involved populations.
In this module, while building foundational capacity for effective policy analysis, you will grapple with the key theories and debates in the critical social policy field, including for example, social inequalities and participation.
We will focus on the constructed nature of social policies vis-à-vis forms of contestations and resistance, and key terms of rights and obligations, needs and capabilities, retribution and distribution, care and solidarity.While critically looking at the understanding of contemporary issues, you will be advancing your understanding of key research problems pertinent to your dissertation project.
We have particular expertise, but are not limited to, the following social issues:  migrations; ethnicity, hegemonic whiteness and racialization; bodies through the lenses of (dis)ability, gender(ing) and sexuality; organizations, institutions, and civil society; social mobilites and education; class, social stratification and intersectionality; trans-nationalism and globalizations through the post- and de-colonial perspectives.
Having nurtured your theoretical capacity, we will proceed to real-life examples, and introduce you to the selected models of policy analysis.
Our goal is to ensure that theories blend with applied strategies, and work as competence catalysts for your research project.
What are the entry requirements for Crime and Justice in Practice?
social sciences, law and humanities, including but not limited to criminology, law, geography, humanities, and business).
Can I get admission into Crime and Justice in Practice based on my working experience in this sector?
On successful completion of this programme, you will have mastered the knowledge, understanding, and skills needed to gain postgraduate-level employment within a wide variety of professional sectors.
This includes criminal justice agencies, third sector organisations, academia, public administration, social policy, and government/parliamentary agencies.
As a criminology programme, the MSc Crime and Justice in Practice provides you with significant strengths in intellectual, transferable, and research skills in preparation for career development in a very wide range of sectors.
The applied focus and the carefully tailored in-module flexibility enable you to apply theoretical models to real world problems and/or design research to address specific areas of policy and/or practice.
In addition, the opportunity for work experience will enable you to gain first-hand experience and learn from professional partners within real-world settings.
On successful completion of the MSc, you will also be equipped to apply for doctoral-level study at Edinburgh Napier or other UK Universities.
A Criminal Justice Policy Analyst plays a crucial role in examining, evaluating, and shaping policies related to crime, law enforcement, justice reform, and public safety.
They use research, data analysis, and their understanding of criminal justice systems to recommend policy changes and strategies aimed at improving the effectiveness and fairness of the justice system that is responsive to the needs of society.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-social-research-and-policy-postgraduate-full-time:
MSc Social Research and Policy will help you to develop:
• A critical awareness of the economic, socio-cultural and political contexts that influence the practice of social research in various fields (i.e.
academic, non-governmental, business, government & policy, media & creative industries).
• An ability to find and use reliable data for an interdisciplinary and critically informed discussion on a range of contemporary issues and social policies that impact on individuals and groups.
• An ability to critically evaluate and assess evidence, impact & outcomes, and to identify the theoretical and methodological underpinnings of trustworthiness, validity, authenticity, and re-liability that inform such claims.
• An ability to reflect on the real-life implications of social research designs and qualitative & quantitative methodologies in addressing socio-cultural, economic, and political issues and inequalities in diverse contexts.
• An ability to apply social research principles and skills in real-life settings, working both independently and collaboratively, to deliver ethically and academically robust research projects.
• The course includes the option of a dedicated work placement module and associated dissertation.
Students not requiring this kind of work placement can choose to undertake a more substantial investigative research dissertation project, on a topic of relevance to them.
This may indeed be based on extant or prior employment, but does not depend on a formal work placement module commitment.
The MSc Social Research and Policy responds to an identified need for graduates with an in-depth academic understanding, and applied skills in all aspects of social research.
Everything about our MSc Social Research and Policy is geared towards helping you grow as a professional researcher, ready for an independent career in business, the charity sector, public administration, academia, or creative industries and media (among others).
The programme has been developed, and will continue, with an Advisory Board of external stakeholders from employers and users of social research.
This enables our MSc to develop graduates with the professional skills and attitudes, fit for the contemporary business and academic market needs.
It also provides you with access to key stakeholders, to be capitalised on for your professional development.
Good social researchers stay on top of global current affairs, monitor fast-changing social policy landscapes, keep in touch with professional bodies, and keep abreast of developments in academic debates.
To achieve this, we will expect you to participate in Social Sciences Seminars run in our subject group, whereby staff, PhD students, and external guests present and discuss their research and work.
This will further enhance your experience, support your advanced learning and strengthen mentoring relationships developed with Napier academics.
We also have a number of research centres across the University, and within the Social Science subject group , and students are encouraged to engage with relevant centres, including On the Margin; the Migration and Mobilities Research Network, CEDAR, SIPR, and SCCJR.
We are a group of excellent researchers who do work that matters.
Understanding and counteracting social (in)equalities is at the heart of our Social Sciences group and building and advancing more socially just and equitable societies is paramount to our work.
As a group we have a creditable track record of applied and impactful research, as our outstanding Research Excellence Framework 2022 outcome testifies.
We have achieved the following, impressive results in the latest REF2022 submission (UoA20 Social Work and Social Policy):
• The top Scottish modern university.
• 100% of impact case studies scoring 3* or 4* stars.
• Top of all Scottish universities by this above measurement.
• 81% of research outputs rated 3* or 4* stars (sector average: 75%).
We have also teamed up with social research businesses, researchers from public administration departments, and research teams from charities across Edinburgh to help us shape and deliver our programme.
This creates opportunities to explore potential work experience or volunteering opportunities that might arise during your studies, and can help you spread your wings in a professional setting.
You will meet quite a few of these professionals in the classroom, as some of them will also deliver guest Employer-Led teaching sessions.
This vibrant research context makes us ideally placed to guide you through your own research development journey.
So come and join us!
This is where your knowledge, skills, and capabilities will shine!
Your individual DP is a piece of advanced scholarship & research that you will carry out under the individual mentorship of an academic colleague.
You will be matched with a Dissertation Mentor best placed to guide you through the project.
We have a wealth of expertise in the social sciences but where appropriate, may offer supervision from colleagues in other subject groups across university.
The dissertation project will be designed according to your interests and future career plans.
For example:
Our MSc Social Research and Policy is built on feminist ethos of cooperation and help.
Therefore, instead of vertical, hierarchical divisions of responsibility, we prefer horizontal collaborations.
The programme draws on academics with expertise across topics including migration, gender, sexuality, decolonisation, race, social class, social policy.
The programme is co-led by Dr Mandy Winterton and Dr Roberto Kulpa share the Programme Leader duties, responsibilities, and perks of joy that come with overseeing, each year, a group of fantastic and motivated junior researchers growing and maturing through our programme.
Dr Mandy Winterton :
I am now a Reader in Sociology, having started my Higher Education journey as a mature working-class student at my local college in one of the most deprived areas of the UK.
It is perhaps not surprising that my research interests then are founded on intersections of class and gender, (although not limited to this.) Over the years my academic and commissioned research has enabled me to apply that focus on many different contexts, from schools, colleges and elite universities to the civil service, prisons and the Ministry of Defence.
I am passionate about principled, robust social research, and the lives and nuances of inequality that it is able to bring into view and fight for.
Dr Roberto Kulpa :
I have been moving all my life, and this diasporic experience has deeply influenced my way of thinking about the world we live in, and about global social inequalities I have witnessed.
That is why I have always felt at home with feminist and queer movements in their fight against injustice and pursued academic research that brings these approaches into play in academia, and in my pedagogy.
Apart of studying ‘West and the Rest’ (as Stuart Hall has once aptly described global political inequalities), gender/sexuality and nationalisms, I have also been reading into friendship and developing questions concerning well-being, resilience, and resistance as modi operandi of marginalised groups during precarious times.
Dr Marina Yusupova :
I grew up in Russia, a country where masculine domination has been a defining feature of social, political, and cultural life.
I have always felt exasperation at the invisibility and systemic devaluing of women, their experiences, and their work.
Feminist theories and critique have been absolutely crucial in shaping my academic journey.
Over the past 10 years, I have applied my passion for promoting gender equality and integrating gender sensitive perspectives in organisational cultures.
In my research on gender and sexuality I use postcolonial and decolonial perspectives to challenge the western-centric hierarchies in knowledge production.
As an educator, I see the task of decolonising the curriculum, fostering inclusive academic cultures, and undermining various inequalities within the classroom as central for educational institutions of all levels.
Dr Guanyu Jason Ran :
Born and raised in Mainland China on the banks of the Yangtze river, my childhood witnessed one of the largest human migrations in contemporary China, led by the construction of the world’s largest hydropower station - the Three Gorges Dam.
While this life experience of course became the genesis of my personal travel and migration inspirations, wherein so far I have travelled to more than 30 countries around the world, as well as lived in countries across East and Southeast Asia (China and Thailand), Australasia (New Zealand), North America (United States), and Europe (United Kingdom, France, Portugal, and Denmark); it also inevitably paved my later academic interest and pathway into inquiring how migration impacts our everyday life, especially family dynamics, intergenerational/multigenerational, and broad ethnoracial relationships.
All modules use weekly sessions to deliver creatively tailored content & activities that reflect the applied nature of our programme.
These will, where practicable, take place over two consecutive days per week.
There are also exclusive events designed to create collegiate environment for students, staff & business partners, aimed at extending employability opportunities, and peer networking.
Each module has a tailored suite of activities, outputs & formats to showcase the best of your skills & knowledge.
You will design and execute research tools (e.g.
surveys, focus groups), write critical annotations, create outputs e.g.
Executive Reports, Project Proposals, and use industry-standard software to showcase analysed data.
You will work individually & in small groups to identify and/or resolve problems, analyse & present case studies, write impact plans for research projects, and critically reflect on your progress in Learning Diaries.
There are no compulsory work placement modules on this programme.
Through engaging in the optional work placement related to your course, you will explore the concepts, debates, policies, initiatives, and funding related to the area in which you’re working.
The alternative option is for students to choose to undertake a larger independent research project, on a topic of their choice, directed towards policy issues and/or towards progression within university sector.
This can be related to the student's past work experience.
The module introduces key principles of designing social research at all stages, from the initial idea to the final dissemination and outputs.
You will learn and practise writing research questions, matching them to suitable methods, and aligning outputs accordingly to set goals.
Having built a knowledge-base of methodological strategies, you will deploy it to increase competencies in research design via their application.
For instance, the outcome of the module – a Research Proposal – will become a grounding framework for your Dissertation Project.
Critical considerations of ethical underpinnings in research, alongside self-reflections on your own positionality in the complex social world of interdependencies, will feed into your work on an Ethical Approval Form to obtain ethical clearance for your project.
This module forms a bedrock for developing your quantitative and qualitative research skills, on which we focus in complementary modules (Mastering Qualitative Research, Advanced Research Skills).
It presents a strong theoretical grounding that underpins applied solutions that you will develop in due course.
This methodological triptych will form an essential skillset for your future career in either private business, public administration, third sector, academia, or arts and creative industries.
The module progresses students through key theories, epistemologies and methodologies in social and political research.
It is aimed at students with the existing, UG-level understanding of methodology, or with some experience of planning and executing research, or at those who need a subject refresher.
The dissertation project is a piece of advanced, independent scholarship & research work that you will carry out individually.
It is the module that builds on, and elevates the knowledge, skills, and capacities developed across other modules, into a sustained, systematic and comprehensive piece of work that demonstrates the achievement of the learning outcomes for the MSC Social Research programme.
In the project, you will be expected to critically engage with academic, public, and other literatures and sources, relating to the relevant theories, concepts, and models covered during the programme.
The project also enables you to illustrate and utilise a range of transferable skills that you will have developed during workshops and peer activities across the programme.
These skills and interpersonal capacities form a bedrock of professional attitudes in any workplace.
We have a wealth of expertise in the social sciences but where appropriate, may offer supervision from colleagues, for example, in Criminology, Psychology, Health and Social Care, or Business.
The dissertation project that you will carry out will be structured according to your interests and post-graduation plans.
For example: • You may opt to design and execute a new research project and seek to disseminate the findings to the relevant audiences.
• If you have (or will undertake) work experience that is relevant to the programme of study, you may opt in to do practice-based project.
What counts as ‘impact’?
When can we claim for example, a social intervention is ‘impactful’ on target communities and groups?
How do we know that something (e.g.
a policy or engagement strategy) ‘just works’ or is ‘useful’?
In this module you will build on knowledge from Social Policy and Landscapes of Contemporary Issues and gain evaluation and assessment skills necessary in social research and/or social policy work.
You will expand theoretical framework and critically engage with practical approaches to ‘impact’ in diverse sectors (governmental, charity, academic, business, arts), and you will develop skills of preparing targeted and meaningful forms of appraisal and evaluation.
An important aspect of the module engages you in thinking about communication, dissemination, and exploitation of social research.
This includes planning ‘pathways to impact’, including forms of public engagement and knowledge exchange, involvement of target audiences, choosing suitable channels and means of outreach best suited for the intended objectives.
You will learn key concepts and approaches to evaluation and practice working on component parts, such as cost-benefit analysis, qualitative and quantitative KPIs (‘key performance indicators’) or using logic modelling.
You will be prepared to engage with political and socio-cultural contexts and conditions, and ethical considerations since no policy remains outside of power and institutional relations.
How can we as social scientists better understand and effectively respond to the main societal challenges we face today while meaningfully committing to shared values and ethics?
This module is designed to help you further develop your skills and readiness as researchers and practitioners to achieve this aim.
It does so by building on your learning so far at Masters level across various disciplines and topics.The module adopts a Problem and Project-Based Learning (PBL) approach to teaching, based on the idea that student inquiry should guide the learning process and the definition of the problem to be studied.
In practice, throughout the module, you will engage with key theoretical and methodological concepts through interactive workshops and fieldwork.
You will also have the opportunity to work individually and collaboratively on an extended project focusing on a social policy response to a key societal challenge of your choice.
Topics that may inform your PBL project design include, but are not limited to, migration, climate and the environment, technology, crime, social inequality, and social justice.Your learning in the module will be assessed through a portfolio consisting of 1) individual learning diary reflecting your experience of academic and professional developments throughout the module, 2) a team written report, and 3) a group presentation, investigating a chosen societal challenge and accordingly potential responses to it.
The module introduces you to key elements of the qualitative methodologies for social research.
It is aimed at students with an existing, UG-level understanding of qualitative methodologies, and with some experience of qualitative research methods and techniques, or at those who need a subject refresher.
The module builds around two segments: (1) understanding qualitative research; (2) mastering advanced qualitative methods and techniques.
The first part of the module will focus on:• The premise of where, how, and why to use qualitative evidence for understanding social worlds and social inequalities.• Benefits and shortcomings of using qualitative tools to inform social policy and impact initiatives in the third sector, public administration, art and culture, academic research and business sectors.
• Theoretical and epistemological bases for using qualitative evidence in social research.• The value of alternative evaluation parameters, such as authenticity, credibility, and plausibility, alongside ‘traditional?
evaluations of reliability, validity, or generalizability.• The role and impact of the internet, digital technologies, and social media on qualitative research, and how to research with, and on/about, them.
The second part of the module will consist of:• Focus on interviews, focus groups, and ethnographies as the popular qualitative methods in social research.• Sampling and the logics of ‘sample representation?
of populations in qualitative work.
• Core functionality of NVivo (or similar) software used in the analysis of qualitative data.• Key concepts and analytical strategies such as: content analysis, thematic analysis, discourse analysis, representation, coding, fieldwork, aide-memoir, and others.• Participatory research and other novel, advanced methods in qualitative research.
What are the entry requirements for Social Research and policy?
The entry requirement for this course is a Bachelor (Honours) Degree at a 2:2 or above in a related social sciences or humanities subjects (e.g.
sociology, psychology, criminology, anthropology, social care, cultural studies, education, journalism, media and history).
Can I get admission into Social Research and Policy based on my working experience in this sector?
Social research graduates typically go into careers in the following sectors:

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/news/phdates-lee-curley:
The true meaning of love is often debated but for Lee Curley, the reason as to why he loves his research area is crystal clear.
Here, he shares more on his passion for Psychology and explains how one quote from his Grandad has helped shape his approach to both his research and his life.
13 February 2017
12:48
25 June 2024
In my current research I am looking into the implications that the Scottish verdict of not proven may have on jurors.
By using mock juror simulations, I am comparing the effects that the Scottish three verdict system (guilty, not guilty, and not proven) has on the decision making processes, biases and outcomes of Scottish jurors in comparison to the Anglo-American two verdict system.
In addition, I am currently using experimental methods to investigate the kind of biases and cognitive short-cuts that have an impact on a juror’s decision making process.
I love my research as it allows me to have an impact on society.
My research has allowed me to test the negative effects that biases and stereotypes may have on society, which hopefully will allow me to make society just that little bit fairer.
Also, I love solving problems and doing a PhD allows you to solve one very big problem for three years.
My research has allowed me to do what I love, reading psychological theories, testing participants and using complex statistical procedures to test theory.
Research is the first thing I think about in the morning and the last thing I think about at night.
I come from a small, ex-mining, town in East Lothian called Tranent.
The school is relatively small, but does seem to attract some excellent teachers.
I left school in 2010, and then went to Edinburgh Napier university aged 18, with the hope of becoming the next Sigmund Freud.
I graduated in the summer of 2014, and started my PhD in 2015 (once again at Edinburgh Napier, they cannot seem to get rid of me).
I am now in my final year, and hope to finish later this year.
I also chose Edinburgh Napier because of its surroundings.
Each of the three campuses are scattered around the city of Edinburgh, which is steeped in history and culture.
My patriotism for Edinburgh, also made the university the clear choice when picking a location to study way, way back in 2009/2010.
I would say, do it!
A PhD is an excellent opportunity.
A PhD gives you the opportunity to voice your opinion (as I have written for the national press).
A PhD allows you to change and have an impact though research and investigation.
A PhD allows you to grow as an individual, it allows you to develop skills such as public speaking.
Before my PhD I would get nervous speaking in front of five people, now I have lectured to around 100 individuals.
In a poor attempt to paraphrase Trainspotting, choose academia.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/criminology-psychology-and-sociology/faye-skelton:
Learn about our MSc in Applied Criminology and Forensic Psychology from programme leader, Faye Skelton.
Criminology is the study of crime, criminal behaviour, and criminal justice systems.
Forensic psychology is psychology - the study of human mind and behaviour - applied to the legal system.
What is unique about the course?
Through combining criminology with forensic psychology this programme offers a 360 degree examination of crime, criminal behaviour, legal processes, and criminal justice.
We offer a work placement module whereby students can experience working within a justice or related context, allowing them to make a valuable contribution to their chosen organisation whilst also having the opportunity to see their learning applied practically in the real world.
The programme has a strong applied focus, and we regularly invite guest practitioners and researchers to share their experience from working in this area, where they provide valuable insights for students into their work as well as current debates and tensions in the sector.
We also have an exciting and broad range of assessment types including risk formulations and policy reports, which offers students practice with the sorts of documents they are likely to work with in a criminal justice context.
Why should someone study this course?
This programme is an excellent choice for those with an interest in crime and criminal behaviour, and also creates pathways to work in a criminal justice context or progress on to PhD study in forensic psychology and/or criminology.
We do not require prior study in either subject, so the course is accessible to those who have not specifically studied psychology or criminology previously..
One third of the programme is made up of research through one taught module and a double  dissertation module, so the course also offers a good basis for conducting quality research in criminology and forensic psychology.
There are many opportunities for students to network with guest speakers, building contacts for their futures and gaining an insight into the broad range of job roles and organisations they may go on to work in.
They also gain insight into multi-agency working and how Forensic Psychologists and other criminal justice professionals work together.
It is worth noting that some applicants apply to the programme because they are interested in crime investigation or crime scene analysis, however the programme does not cover either of these areas.
What backgrounds do students on the course tend to have?
Most of our students have completed their undergraduate studies within the last few years, though some have come to us after several years in relevant employment.
Many have studied psychology and/or criminology previously, and some have studied sociology, law, social sciences, politics and anthropology, for example.
Most of our applicants also have some relevant work experience which might include youth work, aspects of social care, volunteer work with those with an offending history or those affected by crime, mental health support, as well as legal or court work.
Though not essential it is an advantage to have experience of working within the criminal justice context.
We are pleased to welcome students from around the world and find the learning environment to be much richer from this diversity of educational, occupational, and cultural backgrounds.
Applicants from a forensic science background will need to have evidence of having studied and passed psychology or criminology modules at undergraduate or postgraduate degree level.
What careers can students go on to?
Our students often progress to careers within the justice voluntary (third) sector, supporting people with an offending history, those affected by crime, or those at risk of offending.
Some also progress to PhD study and continue into academia (teaching and research), while others have gone to work within the private sector, for example in fraud detection.
Several students have progressed to work within the police, including in roles such as data analysts.
Students graduating from this programme are not eligible to progress to accredited training in forensic psychology.
Our MSc Applied Forensic Psychology is an accredited programme suited to those wishing to train as a Forensic Psychologist.
Can you tell us about your background?
I was a first-generation university student from a single-parent family, so it was never expected that I would go to university.
I loved learning though and never really wanted to leave school, so for me it was a matter of what I would study, not if.
I fell in love with psychology while studying for my A Levels, and I thoroughly enjoyed my years at Lancaster University studying for my BSc (Hons) Psychology.
I enjoyed studying at Lancaster so much that I stayed there to complete my ESRC-funded PhD which was on the development of face recognition in primary-school aged children (2004).
I was then successful in securing a lectureship in Psychology at the University of Central Lancashire where I held two temporary lectureship positions before being offered a permanent position in 2006, being promoted to Senior Lecturer in 2009.
I moved to Edinburgh Napier University as a Lecturer in Cognitive Psychology in 2014.
I was involved in developing this MSc which I have led since September 2016, and I have developed and lead modules delivered on this programme, as well as the MSc Applied Forensic Psychology and our undergraduate Psychology courses.
I really enjoy taking my research out to the public and have performed several times at the Edinburgh Fringe Festival as well as at various UK science festivals, skeptics society and other specialist group events.
What are your areas of interest and expertise?
I am broadly interested in cognitive psychology, which includes memory, perception, problem solving and decision-making, but particularly applied to the forensic context.
I have taught in many areas over my career such as eyewitness testimony, identification of perpetrators (e.g.
police line-ups), false confessions and recovered memories, police facial composites (E-FITs, including delivering software training), witness interviewing, detection of deception, and jury decision-making.
My research has mostly focused on improving the quality of police facial composite images, working collaboratively with Professor Charlie Frowd at UCLan.
More recently at Edinburgh Napier,I have been working on qualitative projects on miscarriages of justice (wrongful convictions), and the impact of COVID-19 on those working in the justice voluntary sector in Scotland
How did you get into criminology or forensic psychology?
When I was an undergraduate student, forensic psychology wasn’t offered within the curriculum and so wasn’t really on my radar.
When I started my lectureship at UCLan however, the department there had many more applied optional modules and there was a strong focus on forensic psychology including a specific Forensic Psychology undergraduate degree, as well as one combining psychology and criminology.
I was working in a large department with over 40 staff, and so most of my work was delivering practicals, tutorials, and lots of marking.
I was eager to deliver a lecture and was delighted when a soon-to-be-retired colleague offered me his slot on false confessions for first year students.
I had been exposed to miscarriages of justice as a teenager – growing up in Rochdale we had the well-known and very sad cases of Stefan Kizsco, who was wrongfully convicted of the murder of schoolgirl Lesley Molseed, and the satanic panic in the early 1990s whereby dozens of children were taken away from their families amid (completely unfounded) allegations of satanic abuse.
Learning about the psychology of false confessions cemented my interest in how people could come to confess to crimes they hadn’t committed or remember things that hadn’t happened.
As colleagues left the department or changed roles I took additional forensic psychology lectures across undergraduate and masters modules, gradually shifting into specialising in forensic psychology over a few years .
I also offered supervision of undergraduate and postgraduate dissertations in areas related to my teaching and research.
What can students expect to learn on the programme?
The programme is roughly half criminology and half forensic psychology, depending on the option modules chosen and the dissertation topic.
Students a good grounding in key criminology and forensic psychology theories as well as an examination of current topics and debates.
The module Current Topics in Crime is a great example of this, with teaching comprised of guest lectures from practitioners and academics.
Students will also learn about forensic psychology in practice, learning how to conduct a risk formulation, how to interview witnesses, and how to construct a facial composite (E-FIT) of a perpetrator; and about how criminal justice works in practice, studying criminal justice institutions, practices, and participants.
Students will also get intense tuition in qualitative and quantitative research and data analysis to underpin their dissertation research.
It’s therefore an advantage for students to have studied some degree-level statistics.
For this reason, we ask all students to complete some open access statistics courses before joining the programme, to ensure they have the basic level understanding to build on.
To complement these compulsory modules there are a range of optional modules from both subject areas, including the Work Placement.
Why is this subject important?
It’s increasingly important for society to understand the varying reasons behind why people offend, in order to support them in rehabilitation and desistance from offending behaviour.
Currently our criminal justice systems do not effectively do this, and change is needed in how we approach criminal behaviour and respond to it, either with punishment or other alternatives.
To do this successfully we need to understand both the individual and societal factors that increase the likelihood of a person becoming involved in crime and the likelihood of reoffending.
It's important to also examine how the justice system harms those that become involved in it, and how we can best work with those affected by crime to ensure quality of evidence as well as their psychological wellbeing.
Current and future generations of practitioners therefore need thorough knowledge and understanding of what is effective versus ineffective, beneficial versus harmful, to be able to fight for meaningful and lasting change which will benefit and minimise harm to those that become involved in the criminal justice system.
What do you enjoy about teaching this programme at ENU?
I love leading and teaching on this programme because we typically attract students with varied study backgrounds, work experience, and life experiences.
This means that everybody in the classroom (staff included) have opportunities to learn from one another.
I also enjoy working across subject areas, leading colleagues in both psychology and criminology who are passionate about their teaching and research and who create such an exciting and supportive environment for our students to learn.
Often you can really sense the enthusiasm for a topic in classroom conversations or in student work, or when students are discussing their work placement, and it’s fantastic knowing that you’ve contributed to that.
Our graduates go on to make a real difference around the world!

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/criminology-psychology-and-sociology/psychology-interviews:
Learn about studying Psychology at Edinburgh Napier, from our lead academics Professor Diane Dixon and Lindsey Carruthers
When I was a child, I knew I wanted to be a scientist.
You couldn’t even study psychology at school at that time, which was the late 1970’s.
I began my career in pharmacology, which I have a PhD in.
My second PhD is in Psychology, which I didn’t go into until much later.
I did about a decade’s worth of postdoctoral research as a pharmacologist.
I then left research and went to work for The Welcome Trust, which is a medical research charity in London.
That’s where I first found my interest in psychology, particularly within areas such as mental health and neuroscience.
During that period, which was the mid-1990’s, the Wellcome Trust was supporting some of the world’s leading clinical psychologists who were making significant impacts on treatments for mental health conditions such as social anxiety, eating disorders and depression.
This work really interested me.
I had trained as a pharmacologist, which is focussed on drug treatments and here was an entirely different approach that used ‘talking treatments’.
I found that difference really interesting, so much so, that I decided to retrain as a psychologist.
This meant I had to go back into undergraduate studies in my mid-thirties.
I came back to Scotland to study at Strathclyde University, and during that time I was taught health psychology by Rory O’Connor.
Rory is the world’s leading expert on suicide, and he got me interested in health psychology.
He convinced me that I should do another PhD, so at 40 I did.
I moved to St Andrews to do my PhD under the supervision of Professor Marie Johnston, who was responsible for establishing the discipline of Health psychology in Europe.
So, I have been really lucky to study with some of the world’s leading health psychologists.
A large part of what I tell the undergraduates I teach is linked to my own experience.
It’s ok not to know what you want to do, particularly as a career, at such a young age, and it’s always alright to change your mind about what you want to do.
Enjoy learning while you’re at Napier, and everything else will resolve itself over time!
I’ve never really specialised in one specific area, as I’m interested in lots of things within psychology.
I’m a bit of a generalist.
When I have specialised, it would be in the area of recovery and rehabilitation from acute health events, such as rehabilitation from elective surgery or stroke.
I also work to understand how to change health behaviours – during the pandemic I was involved in a project to understand adherence to transmission reducing behaviours such as mask wearing and physical distancing.
That work is ongoing, and we now have a really interesting collaboration with colleagues who work in public health.
I also have an interest in theory and measurement of theoretical constructs important in psychology, such as self-efficacy.
Psychology tells about how we work as humans and about how we form impressions and make decisions, as well as how rapidly our minds can do that.
It can show us how our brains change over time and how children’s minds develop.
It helps us understand who we are and how we influence, interact with and judge others, and, importantly, how we are influenced by other people and the information we are exposed to.
This understanding has always been important but is perhaps more so in the age of the internet and social media.
Studying psychology helps you to develop an understanding of your emotions and own mental state, your own behaviour and the mental state and behaviours of others.
I think everyone should learn about psychology.
It teaches us about human behaviour and development – it’s useful for us all.
You don’t need to want to become a practicing psychologist to make studying psychology worthwhile.
Psychological knowledge is really useful for any career that involves interacting with other people – and that’s just about every job.
I’m mostly looking forward to the energy of the undergraduate classes and seeing students back full-time and in person.
I didn’t enjoy the online teaching and learning we all had to do during the pandemic.
I like the live interaction.
I always enjoy the questions I get asked from students, I never know what they are going to bring to class and what they will have picked up from their readings – it’s exciting for me.
I feel energised by the interaction with students and hearing what they’ve got to say about different topics and schools of thought, which also helps me learn!

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/study-with-us/international-students/your-country/americas/peru/samantha-hauge-testimonial:
Samantha from Peru talks about her life at Edinburgh Napier University.
I chose psychology here because during the process of applying to universities in the United Kingdom (UK), Edinburgh Napier University had a very welcoming staff.
They would answer all my questions over and over again, they greeted me with such organisation and preparation that it truly made a difference.
My course has good academic and practical work, and being able to choose some of the modules you want to study while doing the core modules is extremely fun.
Also, the teaching staff have been great - they care about the learning outcomes of the students and are always there to help out.
What did surprise me when I first moved to Edinburgh was the amount of hard work I had to do.
Edinburgh is a beautiful city.
It is not only made for students, although there are a lot.
It’s full of life in general and there are always things going on whether you are into clubbing, pubs, gigs - there is something for everyone.
To be honest, I thought it would be colder.
One of the other great things about Edinburgh is how easy it is to travel to any other part of Scotland, the UK and Europe.
My long term career goal is to become a Parapsychological Researcher and Edinburgh Napier is already helping me with that.
There is a lot of opportunity within the campuses to take part in research studies, which will ultimately help me accomplish this goal.
After Edinburgh Napier, I plan on doing a postgraduate degree at the University of Edinburgh in order to get into the Koestler Unit.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/study-with-us/international-students/your-country/americas/usa/what-our-students-say/jenna-testimonial:
Jenna from the USA talks about her life at Edinburgh Napier University.
Overall, Edinburgh Napier is a fantastic university.
It has three unique campuses that are conveniently located and have plenty of places to eat and study with an amazing gym.
I've found that all the technology seems to work and none of my professors have ever had to take class time out to call IT to fix something which happened a lot at my undergraduate university.
The library is one of my favourite parts because of how many great places there are to study and how everything you need (printing, food, bathroom) is right there.
There's also a huge variety of clubs or societies to join.
I didn't completely join any society, but I have attended events put on by the International Society and the Psychology Society, and found it to be a great way to meet people and explore Edinburgh.
There's definitely a lot of charm and things to do at Edinburgh Napier.
I chose both Edinburgh Napier and MSc in Applied Criminology and Forensic Psychology for a lot of reasons but I can narrow them down to location, cost, reputation and my own interest.
I looked at other universities but only a handful had a variety of psychology courses and even fewer had forensic psychology as an option.
In addition, the cost was great compared not only to other UK universities but US ones as well.
There's so many opportunities and things to do in Edinburgh and I personally didn't find the cost of living to be very different from my hometown.
In terms of the course itself, I have found it to be very different than courses in the US.
There are no tests, homework, or assignments, just “strongly suggested" reading and two assessments due in the middle and end of the trimester.
This was off-putting to me for the first few weeks because I prefer to have some kind of task or assignment to apply what I've learned about but I've slowly been getting used to the system.
The staff have been very understanding and helpful about the transition, and have always answered any question and made time to sit down with me when I needed it.
I absolutely love living in Edinburgh.
It's a perfect blend between city/suburb/country life due to its size and location.
There's always something to do, whether it’s dining, a show, outdoor activities, clubbing or just exploring.
The bus service is like none I've ever experienced and it's so easy to get to anywhere within the city.
There's also a lot of companies that do trips outside the city for a decent cost and I've been able to see much of Scotland this way.
I was able to visit the Inner Hebrides, St.
Andrew's, Inverness, Glen Coe, and a dozen other places that I can't even remember the names of.
The only complaint I have is that I wish more stores and restaurants were open late, but that is a small price to pay to live here.
Other than that, I really have nothing bad to say about Edinburgh.
I personally can't see why anyone would choose to go anywhere else.
For much of my undergraduate studies, I focused on sexual offenders and wanted to work with the population in one way or another.
I moved around from therapy and rehabilitation to probation services to research but couldn't settle on which one I wanted to do.
As time has gone on, I have found that I am not the type of person who can work in an office job.
I definitely need a job where I am moving and able to travel and have recently taken an interest in the FBI, US Embassy, DEA and other agencies that work on a more global level.
I would love to be able to study and work with criminals internationally and see how crime varies across the world.
Luckily, Edinburgh Napier has a diverse group of students and some of the courses I'm taking offer a look at how things are done in different countries.
I've been able to meet so many people from all over the world and it has only made me want to travel even more.
Ideally, I'd love to get a PhD before settling into a job but it's expensive so I may have to wait.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bdes-hons-graphic-design-undergraduate-fulltime:
Graphic design shapes the way we see and think about the world around us.
Join our award-wining students on the BDes (Hons) Graphic Design learning how to use graphic design to tell meaningful stories that make a difference.
The four-year BDes (Hons) Graphic Design degree of fers a highly regarded and carefully considered programme which equips our students with the skills to meet current industry demands and nurtures thoughtful graduates who understand the value of ideas , ethics, concept development and deep thinking in design.
Gain practical work experience supported by our network of local, national and international industry partners along the way .
During your studies you’ll have the opportunity to undertake live-projects, placements and international exchange.
W210
Bryony Spooner Graphic Design student
Heather Fletcher Graphic Design student
This course emphasises the importance of ideas and originality of content as key elements and the fundamental cornerstone of the graphic design process.
It encourages creativity, integrity, social and ethical responsibility and a sense of challenge in the work undertaken.
The course will expose you to design in its broadest sense, including media, motion and spatial applications, and you'll study and create work that transcends the 2D format.
You'll gain the skills you need to successfully operate as a professional graphic designer, learning and develop expertise in techniques ranging from the traditional to the cutting-edge and experimental, all underpinned by deepening levels of conceptual and critical thinking.
You'll gain the skills to develop unique design ideas, establish rigorous design processes, deal with complex design issues, make informed judgements and communicate conclusions clearly to a professional audience.
You'll gain an understanding of the creative economy and professional design practice.
Throughout your studies you’ll have opportunities to work on live projects, to undertake a work placement, and to benefit from lectures and workshops run by members of our supportive network of industry practitioners.
These practical experiences provide the opportunity not only to engage with current graphic design practice but also to build your own network of contacts.
Throughout the course there are opportunities for international experiences.
We work on projects with international clients and collaborators around the world, and also organise annual study trips to explore the graphic design culture in a different European destination each year.
And you’ll have the opportunity to apply to study abroad at one of our partner universities for a trimester in year 3.
In the final year you'll devise your major project, articulating an individual design philosophy and further enhancing your subject specific skills and knowledge.
This is a full-time course studied over four years.
You'll learn by a variety of teaching methods including lectures, tutorials, workshop sessions and independent study.
Core knowledge and contextual understanding is acquired through lectures, studio practical activities, seminars, tutorials, group work, fieldwork and guided independent learning.
Your knowledge and understanding of graphic design will be assessed using a combination of presentations of graphic design solutions, portfolios of creative work,
exhibitions, essays and self-reflective reports, regular individual and group presentations of projects to tutors, peers and, where appropriate, external bodies.
Assessment methods are dependent on the module deliverables, whether studio-based or theoretical/contextual and can be through presentations, a portfolio of creative work, or a written submission.
In the second trimester of your third year you will have the opportunity to study at a partner University overseas, or take a work placement in industry.
Edinburgh-based StudioLR sponsors a best in show prize at our annual Degree Show, with the winner getting the chance to go and work with the agency for a month.
We also have strong links with local agencies who offer mentoring and placements throughout the year, including Design Bridge in London, which has employed six of our graduates.
The programme has a wide international footprint.
In the second trimester of your third year you will have the opportunity to study at a partner university overseas, or take a work placement in industry.
The programme currently has international partners in France, Canada, USA, Germany, and the Netherlands.
Also in year 4:
What are the entry requirements for Graphic Design?
As part of the selection process suitably qualified applicants will normally be required to submit a portfolio.
You can find more information about what to include in your portfolio here .
Standard Entry Requirement: BBBC preferably including one of: Art and Design , Design and Manufacture or Daydream Believers Level 6 Creative Thinking at grade B.
Minimum Offer Entry Requirement: BCCC preferably including one of: Art and Design , Design and Manufacture or Daydream Believers Level 6 Creative Thinking at grade B.
Please note there are limited places available for Year 2 entry.
In this immersive programme, you will enter the dynamic world of graphic design and unleash your passion for communication and visual storytelling.
Through a comprehensive curriculum blending theory and practice, you will develop the skills and expertise needed to create compelling and impactful designs across a variety of mediums and platforms.
As our society becomes more and more visually-oriented, the need for excellent graphic designers increases.
There is wide scope for employment including:
You'll explore a diverse range of design principles and techniques, from typography and motion to editorial and information design.
Through hands-on projects, studio sessions, and collaborative workshops, you'll gain practical experience applying design research and theory to solve real-world problems and communicate ideas effectively.
You'll become a versatile and skilled graphic designer, equipped to thrive in a variety of creative industries, from visual identity to motion design, data visualisation to publishing.
Our BDes (Hons) in Graphic Design will provide you with the knowledge, skills, and confidence to succeed in the dynamic and competitive field of graphic design.
As a Graphic Designer, you will enter the world of visual storytelling where your creativity and design skills will bring information to life as you craft visual communications to capture attention and convey messages with impact.
Picture yourself collaborating with clients, colleagues and communities to understand their needs and objectives, then translating those into visually compelling designs that deeply resonate with audiences.
You'll leverage your expertise in design software such as Adobe Creative Cloud to bring ideas to life across various mediums, from print to digital, in two and three dimensions.
Whether it’s designing a logo that defines a visual identity, an infographics that distils complex information, or a social media campaign that sparks engagement, your work will leave a lasting impression.
Your passion for design and your eye for detail will set you apart as a trusted creative partner, inspiring clients and colleagues with your innovative ideas and impeccable execution.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bdes-hons-product-design-undergraduate-fulltime:
The BDes (Hons), Product Design course covers a very wide range of design activity and innovation from commercial 3D objects to conceptual design interventions in spaces and communication.
With an emphasis on innovation and user-focus, you’ll learn a range of practical skills in visualisation, prototyping, CAD, materials, fabrication, business and marketing skills to prepare you for a career in design.
Based at a multi-disciplinary campus, you'll be in close contact with students and staff involved in other aspects of design, giving you access to a breadth of inspiration and expertise that can add further depth to your study.
This course provides the opportunity to study at a partner university overseas, or take a work placement in industry during your third year.
Our graduates enjoy a high success rate in gaining employment after graduation, and our alumni form an important part of our industry network.
W241
Jamie Walker BDes (Hons) Product Design
Diana Tsaneva BDes (Hons) Product Design
You'll gain practical skills in design, sketching, use of digital media, 3D modelling, materials and manufacture, plus business and marketing skills.
This course will address future technologies, changing consumer culture and the impact of carbon neutral lifestyles, both locally and globally.
You'll work with our industry partners on live projects and have the opportunity to undertake a work placement.
We encourage links with industry through external lectures, placements and participation in competitions.
In Year 3 you can also study overseas with one of our partners in Europe, Scandinavia, China, Australia, New Zealand or North America.
You'll develop your skills in research, problem solving, conceptual development and design thinking which you can also apply to other creative areas such as  UX and service design, branding, advertising.
The course is supported by designated studio spaces for you to learn and practice in, and a modelling workshop with rapid prototyping and excellent computing facilities.
You'll learn by a variety of teaching methods including lectures, tutorials, laboratory sessions and independent study.
Core knowledge and contextual understanding (A1 to A6) is acquired through lectures, studio practical activities, seminars, tutorials, group work, fieldwork, overseas placement and guided independent learning.
Your knowledge and understanding of product design will be assessed using a combination of short-term and long-term practical projects, individual and group presentations of projects to tutors, peers and, where appropriate, external bodies.
Assessment methods are dependent on
the module deliverables, whether studio-based or theoretical/contextual and can be through presentations, a portfolio of creative work, or a written submission.
We also have strong links with local and internationally based design studios who offer mentoring and placements throughout the year.
In the second trimester of your third
year you will have the opportunity to study at a partner university overseas, or take a work
placement in industry.
The programme currently has international partners in France, The Netherlands, Scandinavia, Canada, China, Australia and New Zealand.
In addition to our longer-term three-month exchange programmes, we also offer short-term one-week international design workshops hosted between our six different European design partners.
As part of the selection process suitably qualified applicants will normally be required to submit a portfolio/attend an interview.
You can find more information about what to include in your portfolio here.
Standard Entry Requirement: BBBC preferably including one of: Art and Design, Design and Manufacture or Daydream Believers Level 6 Creative Thinking at grade B.
Minimum Offer Entry Requirement: BCCC preferably including one of: Art and Design, Design and Manufacture or Daydream Believers Level 6 Creative Thinking at grade B.
HNC/D
The BDes (Hons) Product Design course will let aspiring product designers embark on a journey of creativity and innovation to shape the future of consumer goods and experiences.
Through a blend of design theory, technical skills, and hands-on prototyping, you'll learn to develop products that are not only functional and user-friendly but also aesthetically pleasing and emotionally resonant.
This course can lead to a career in various areas of design including:
You'll explore the entire product design process, from concept development and sketching to 3D modeling and material selection.
Working out of our dedicated programme studio spaces and workshops, you'll gain practical experience translating ideas into tangible prototypes and refining designs based on user feedback and market research.
Upon completion, you'll emerge as a versatile and innovative product designer, ready to tackle the challenges of creating meaningful and impactful products that enhance people's lives.
Whether you aspire to work in consumer electronics, furniture design, or sustainable product development, our BDes (Hons) in Product Design will provide you with the knowledge, skills, and confidence to succeed in the exciting and ever-evolving field of product design.
Working as a Product Designer, you will have the chance to use your creativity and problem-solving skills to shape the products and experiences of tomorrow.
In this role, you'll blend art and engineering to create products that are not only functional and user-friendly but also beautiful and intuitive.
Your responsibilities will encompass every stage of the design process, from ideation and prototyping to testing and iteration.
Picture yourself collaborating with cross-functional teams of engineers, marketers, and stakeholders to understand user needs and market trends, then translating those insights into innovative product designs.
By utilising your expertise in design thinking and human-centered design, you will create solutions that address real-world problems and delight users.
Your passion for innovation and your commitment to excellence will drive you to push the boundaries of design, exploring new materials, technologies, and aesthetics to create products that stand out in a crowded marketplace.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bdes-hons-interior--spatial-design-undergraduate-fulltime:
Underpinned by a studio culture designed to foster collaboration and peer learning, this course offers you the opportunity to undertake live projects with clients such as the National Museum of Scotland, engage with internationally recognised practices for work placements, go on international exchange with partner institutions in countries including Australia, Canada and China, and to immerse yourself in study trips to leading centres of design such as Berlin, Copenhagen and Lisbon.
This experience is backed up by a considerable track record of success, including Best Presentation at the Interior Educators National Student Design Awards, the StarPack Student Design Awards, and Gold in the Creative Conscience Awards.
BDes (Hons) Interior and Spatial Design programme also provides opportunities for international study, exchange and work-based learning.
W251
Iona Jost Interior and Spatial Design student
Learn about the SACI placement from our BDes (Hons) Interior & Spatial Design graduate Rebecca Sumina
Through a carefully choreographed series of projects, you'll explore the large and the small, the public and the private, the old and the new, the solid and the void.
Specialist tutors in computer-aided design, technological studies and theoretical perspectives inform and support the core design projects.
You'll design interior and exterior spaces relating to a wide range of themes including social (e.g.
schools, hospitals, libraries), commercial (e.g.
retail, leisure, offices) and the arts (e.g.
theatres, museums, galleries).
The primary focus is to allow you to develop a sophisticated design language and an understanding of the relationship between space, form, structure and materials within the context of building purpose, the end-user and the wider environment.
In addition to traditional skills such as drawing and model making you'll learn to use specific design software (AutoCAD, 3D Studio Max) to articulate design ideas and design processes and to investigate the associated technical issues of design proposals.
Design development is supported by research and experimentation and is augmented by conceptual, technical and regulatory studies as the course advances.
In Year 3 you'll have the opportunity to study with one of our overseas partners in Europe, China, or North America, or undertake a work placement.
There is a strong studio culture supported by a multidisciplinary staff team of academics and industry-based practitioners.
This course will provide you with the increasingly trans-disciplinary skills of the design profession and a thorough understanding of contemporary creative practice.
You'll also gain transferable skills in problem solving, planning, leadership, teamwork, communication and time management.
Graduates are equipped with the collaborative, professional and computer-aided design skills required to operate in design practice and work in fields as diverse as exhibition and museum design, retail design, lighting design, design for responsive environments, exterior spaces and both commercial and residential interiors.
You'll learn by a variety of teaching methods including lectures, tutorials, studio projects and independent study.
You'll be assessed through a combination of portfolio reviews, essays and group work.
Underpinned by a studio culture designed to foster collaboration and peer learning, the course offers you the opportunity to undertake live projects with clients such as the National Museum of Scotland, and engage with internationally recognised practices for work placements.
In Year 3, you'll have the opportunity to study with one of our overseas partners in Europe, China, or North America, or undertake a work placement.
What are the entry requirements for Interior and Spatial Design?
SQA Advanced Highe r
As a graduate of Interior & Spatial design, you'll find your skills in high demand.
The skills you gain will prepare you for work in a number of design and creative disciplines including:
You can also apply for postgraduate study on one of our MA/MDes Design programmes.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-photography-undergraduate-fulltime:
At Edinburgh Napier University we teach to a high technical standard, facilitating the translation of ideas through the art and craft of photography.
The BA (Hons) Photography is industry facing and provides the professional, technical, contextual and creative skills necessary for a career as a photographer.
You'll be encouraged to think critically and creatively, developing your skills so that you are able to convey your ideas through your practice.
As you progress you'll increasingly define your own area of study.
By identifying and working to your strengths, you'll develop an individual creative practice so that by graduation you'll be capable of a high standard of creative output.
The course has recently moved to a newly-built specialist photography facility, which includes five fully-equipped photography studios, a black and white darkroom, dry to dry colour film processor, high-end professional digital scanners and printers, portable photography lighting and a large range of analogue and digital cameras and camera equipment.
W640
The skills and knowledge I gained from the lecturing staff at Edinburgh Napier University has been paramount in the growth of my career.
They have always supported and aided me.
Robbie Tighe
BA Photography graduate
James Parker BA (Hons) Photography graduate
Touching images developed by participants under the guidance of Edinburgh Napier students
You'll research, develop and produce a body of photographic work, your own bespoke portfolio, a dissertation, and engage with core professional development skills required for your future career.
The course and our recent students and graduates have achieved notable successes, including:
Academic modules are taught through a combination of formal and active lectures, seminars, group and individual tutorials, while practical modules combine these methods with workshops, demonstrations, exercises, film screenings, presentations and supervised sessions.
Academic and practical modules may include visits to galleries and other places of interest, and a regular visiting lecture programme will expose you to a wide-range of approaches and practices in the Creative Industries.
There is also an element of individual and group-based self-directed study and research together with appropriate tutor support.
You will be assessed on the submission of creative practical work, supporting documentation and essay assignments.
These outcomes are measured against students' original intentions, learning contracts, project briefs, self-assessment and supporting research material (sketch books, diaries, logs).
Assessment may also be based on the submission of other documentation such as technical and creative workbooks, workshop journals, production and project dossiers and case studies.
The personal development and engagement of students is also assessed through technical exercises, oral presentations and participation in and group critiques.
As part of the selection process, suitably qualified applicants will be invited to submit a portfolio.
We have excellent international exchange links with universities all over the world, including:
What are the entry requirements for Photography?
As part of the selection process suitably qualified applicants will normally be invited to submit a portfolio.
Find out more about what to include in your portfolio here .
Mature Applicants
Applications from mature applicants are welcomed and, where appropriate, the minimum entry requirements can be replaced by the recognition of prior learning and experience, such as knowledge and skills gained outside of formal learning situations.
If your first language isn't English, you'll
normally need to undertake an approved English language test and our minimum English
language requirements will apply.
You’ll be prepared for a position in the highly competitive media and creative industries in Scotland and around the world.
Students from the course are established in many areas of the industry and internationally.
Graduates enter the fields of freelance photography, including advertising, architectural, commercial, editorial, fashion photojournalism, and social photography.
You could engage with public relations, act as a picture editor, work as a curator, pursue roles in creative agencies, or give back through the widening areas of visual education.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/mfa-design-for-interactive-art--experiences-postgraduate-fulltime:
The MFA Design for Interactive Art Experiences will afford you the opportunity to develop your individual practice and make an in-depth exploration of design and visual arts principles for the creation of interactive and responsive environments.
You will work with traditional and digital fabrication methods and apply programming for digital media, software and hardware.
You will learn the skills and attitude to rapidly adopt new technology, software and hardware and bend it to your will.
For the initial part of your studies, you will work with peers in the sibling programmes MA Design for Interactive Experience and MA Heritage and Exhibition Design.
Your study in the first year will determine your practice-based work in the second year.
The second year is self-directed study in tandem with subject supervisors, where you will develop a major project for public display and explore your own professional practice.
The MFA is recognised as an advanced masters level degree and students already holding an appropriate MA can apply to enter the programme directly into the second year of study.
The MFA Interactive Art & Experiences programme works at the intersection of creativity and new and emerging technology, attracting applicants with backgrounds in both design and the visual arts, as well as computing and engineering.
Technologically driven creative interventions are deployed increasingly as objects or spaces, both as a form of critique on the challenges of modern life, and to enhance user experiences and the quality of life.
Your studies will focus on and around interaction between the physical and the digital.
This two year MFA offers students the opportunity to extend project work through an in depth, research-led creative enquiry.
The first year of the programme is in tandem with the MA programmes and you will undertake six modules developing subject specific-skills and knowledge, external research, entrepreneurial collaboration, and practice-based research.
In the second year, you will extend your practice with two large modules: the self-directed Major Project with specialist supervisors, and Professional Practice with portfolio mentors.
You will end the programme with a professional portfolio that enhances industry and employment opportunities or (with an emphasis on research) offers a robust gateway into PhD-level study.
You will have the opportunity to develop working linkages with practitioners in complementing fields of expertise that can be extended beyond your studies in professional spheres.
Studies are studio based with activities taught in specialist spaces.
You will develop prototypes and work with specialist technology and equipment.
Where specific software or equipment is required for modules, it is provided.
As this programme works at the cutting edge of digital technology, it is advantageous to have a good quality laptop.
What are the entry requirements for Design for Interactive Art & Experiences
Can I get admission into Design for Interactive Art & Experiences based on my working experience in this sector?
The MFA Design for Interactive Art & Experiences programme offers you the chance to develop yourself as a practitioner.
By developing skills in interaction design and responsive environments you will be able to apply your own creative sensibilities to create computer driven interactive work.
While exploring your practice, you will have the opportunity to engage with both traditional craftsmanship and cutting-edge digital fabrication techniques.
Our workshops will give you the opportunity to develop practical skills in making and crafting.
You will also explore programming for digital media, industry standard software, development environments and hardware production.
With the space and time to develop your understanding of Interactive Art and Experiences, you will be equipped with the skills and mindset to harness technology and shape it according to your vision.
Graduates from this programme pathway are popular freelance contributors to large scale projects can pursue careers in:
An MFA is considered a terminal degree in the U.S.A.
and would provide you the opportunity to pursue an academic career there and in other countries.
Recognized as an advanced master's level degree, the MFA welcomes students with diverse backgrounds, including design, visual arts, computing, and engineering.
Our curriculum is designed to push the boundaries of creativity and technology, focusing on the intersection between the physical and the digital.
Through hands-on projects, critical discourse, and industry insights, you'll explore how technologically driven creative interventions can both critique modern challenges and enhance user experience, ultimately shaping the future of interactive art and experiences.
By enrolling into this course, you will join us at the forefront of innovation and creativity, and unleash the full potential of interactive art and experiences in the digital age.
In this role, you utilise your creativity to transform spaces into captivating environments that educate, entertain, and inspire.
You'll serve as the visionary architect behind several activities and experiential environments, blending art, technology, and narrative to create memorable experiences that engage diverse audiences.
This type of designer often works in museums, exhibitions, theatre, immersive experience but the understanding of inter=grating the digital and the physical is in demand in most industries.
You work will see you collaborating with curators, artists, and technical experts to develop thematic concepts.
You will be designing interactive and visually stunning environments that respond to visitors’ presence.
You will have the skills to ensure every detail contributes to a cohesive and impactful visitor experience.
You'll leverage your expertise in spatial design, lighting, and multimedia integration to create environments that are both functional and emotionally resonant.
Your passion for design and your ability to blend aesthetics with functionality will set you apart as a master of immersive environments, inspiring wonder and curiosity.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/mfa-design-for-interactive-art--experiences-postgraduate-parttime:
Graduates from this programme pathway can pursue careers in:

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ma-design-for-interactive-experience-postgraduate-full-time:
If you’re looking to study design in Scotland, study design in Edinburgh the capital city.
The MA Design for Interactive Experience course draws from design and visual arts to understand how to create unforgettable interactions between people and technology.
In this innovative course, you will learn applied and theoretical approaches for designing interactivity for everyday experience.
Drawing from a range of disciplines including user experience, interactive art and interaction design you will learn an approach to designing across and between the physical and digital.
In this way you will establish how you can develop new means for interacting with information, creative outputs, and brands, contributing to our modern experience driven economy.
Working at the intersection of creativity and new and emerging technology, The MA Design for Interactive Experience programme attracts applicants with backgrounds in design, visual arts, computing, and engineering.
This course is constructed from core modules that will give you the skills and knowledge to design for creative experiences.
This course takes a human centred design approach to incorporating technology into everyday experience in a meaningful way.
Our graduates learn a critical approach to designing with technology.
We explore how and why interaction can contribute to an engaging and satisfying experience and use experience design as a method to critique and respond to current issues.
This course is led by staff from Edinburgh Napier University’s Design Photography and Advertising group.
Our permanent staff are actively involved in cutting edge research in the fields they teach, contributing to conferences, journals and books as well as gallery exhibitions and products for visitor experiences.
Module teaching is augmented through contributions from professionals working in the field.
The course starts in September and lasts 12 months.
As a highly interdisciplinary course, the MA Design for Interactive Experience is taught through several delivery methods.
Studio-based teaching and design activities will enable you apply technical knowledge within creative projects.
This is supported by formal lectures and seminars that deliver core information and current state of the discipline thinking.
You will benefit from experiential learning activities by visiting and critiquing relevant exhibitions and visitor attractions.
You will design your own brief with a fictional or real client or a gallery.
You will identify the goals and requirements for the shot advertising campaign or motion graphic artwork or simulation.
A series of workshops and seminars will be conducted around art direction including location shooting, CGI simulation, compositing and special effects creation.You will be required to make a digital workbook including some of the following, identifying the target audience, time and location logistics, visual samples and testing, images or shot lists, mood boards, style (hair/makeup/wardrobe/set, models or props, release & Intellectual property, lighting and theoretical cost.
A final project will be produced either for advertising, or for art gallery exhibition.
This project will be presented to the peer group and presented using digital methods to emulate a professional pitch.
This module is a standalone module that is related to Creative Research Portfolio Part 2.
This module  enables you to prepare the groundwork for an extensive individual research project that tests creative practice and design issues through primary and secondary research.
Over the course of this module you will be supported through your management and preparation of a literature review.
This module will enhance your ability to critically assess methodological applicability, research credibility, ethics and develop an understanding of research in and through creative practice and guide your management of a research project.
The suitability of format and research content will be agreed between you and your tutor early in the module.
The final submission  will be in the form of a 5,000 word literature review with a timeline that outlines proposed activity, primary research methods and outcomes that set out a plan for  further study, typically in Creative Research Portfolio Part Two.
This module responds to work proposed in Creative Reserarch Portfolio Part 1.
This modules  enables you to prepare the groundwork for an extensive individual research project that tests creative practice and design issues through primary and secondary research.
This module involves the delivery and evaluation of the research proposed in Creative Research Portfolio Part 1.
This module is assessed through portfolio and is a rigorous demonstration and discussion of the work undertaken throughout the second part of the module.
You will be guided through the delivery of your portfolio by an allocated supervisor.
This is an interdisciplinary module that will require you to place your own subject specialism within the broad context of design for culture and heritage.Through this module you will develop your understanding of the core aspects of design for Heritage and Culture through exhibition design, site specific interpretive installations, spatial appreciation, lighting, motion graphics for immersive environments and graphic communication.
User journeys, engagements, interactions and experiences will form the foundation of explorative studies where prototype designs will aim to change visitor relationship to heritage and culture.
The module introduces you to a variety of design strategies used by designers to address thematically driven project briefs in a variety of physical contexts.Studio-based design projects form the core of the module.
Within the projects you will critically explore current themes in areas of heritage and culture and you will look towards forecasting and designing for future potentialities.
In developing design proposals, you are required to undertake thematic, contextual and material research and to illustrate how your design solutions provide for enhanced user experience and interaction in a defined heritage and cultural role.
You will apply principles of light art and projection to architectural and spatial design schemes.
This will include the specification of hardware and software for light art installations and interpretation of proposed locations.
You will consider human factors along with technical issues (installation, power supply, control schedules).
Physical and CAD modelling will be used to prototype and communicate location and layout, and details for installation.
Costing and budget constraints are also included.
This module gives you the opportunity to explore and understand your own professional practice.Whilst engaged with the module you are encouraged to consider entrepreneurial practice.
Projects and opportunities may arise from the ongoing practice and research within the university, or may be initiated by yourself.
You will work to produce a professional online presence and/or portfolio detailing your professional abilities.
Over the course of the module you will be introduced to entrepreneurial skills and encouraged to consider starting your own professional practice.Learning on the module will be demonstrated through a written reflective report where you will critically analyse and appraise your own work within the context of your own professional practice.
This module is designed to develop the knowledge and skills required to undertake an advanced range of research methods appropriate to contemporary creative practice in design and lens media, from ethnography and interviews to phenomenology, collaborative methods and practice-based approaches .
You will explore advanced research paradigms for creative practice which include critical, participative and performative-oriented research approaches and methods.
You will develop and refine your skills in creative research methods, analysis of creative and practice-based research precedents, and critical and reflective interpretation of your projects.
Using a wide range of primary and secondary sources you will learn to critically explore and evaluate design or lens media research practices.
The knowledge acquired throughout the module will support you in the formulation of a sophisticated, reflective and fully referenced creative practice portfolio of research.
The module will cover research methods that will enable you to ask, learn, look and try things during the early exploratory stages of the creative process.
This will be evidenced by a portfolio submission that includes research presentations, film, installations and written work.
You will critically engage with sketching and prototyping for electronics and hardware with an introduction to microcontroller-based prototyping platform (e.g.
arduino).
You will work with electronics components: LED, resistor, potentiometer, switches, LDR, using breadboards, wiring, testing, debugging.
Exploring the context and precedents from working practitioners, you will upload simple example programs onto target system.You will also engage with programming/sketching in software with an overview of design concepts: execution, code vs data, variables, programming language, edit-compile-execute-test cycle.
You will build graphics programmes using suitable environment (e.g.
Scratch or Design By Numbers, then Processing), and respond to syntax errors, run-time errors, debugging.
What are the entry requirements for Design for Interactive Experience?
The entry requirement for this course is a Bachelor (Honours) Degree at 2:2 or above in any discipline .
Can I get admission into Design for Interactive Experience based on my working experience in this sector?
As well as using their entrepreneurial skills to develop their own career paths, graduates from this programme can expect to find work in:

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ma-design-for-interactive-experience-postgraduate-part-time:
The entry requirement for this course is a Bachelor (Honours) Degree at 2:2 or above in any discipline.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-design-research-postgraduate-full-time:
One of the first of its kind in the UK, this MSc Design Research course blends the practices of a designer and a researcher into one coherent pathway.
This new approach to design comes off the back of a shift in the industry, brought about by new disciplines like User Experience (UX) Design, which has led to an increased demand for designers focused on qualitative methods of research in fields such as Service Design, Policy Design, Systems Design, and Design Strategy.
This programme aims to equip you with the tools and knowledge required to:
This programme's approach to learning, teaching and assessment draws on a wide range of strategies which will empower you with the skills to become an independent and flexible life-long learner.
Tutors will use a variety of strategies and formats to share their knowledge on theoretical and practical aspects of design research.
The course offers a face-to-face learning strategy supplemented by a digital learning environment (Moodle) in which students receive information about the modules, reading lists, activities, assessments, etc.
Students can also be invited to join online synchronous and asynchronous sessions to complement on-site activities.
Face-to-face sessions will have a broad range of approaches.
Assignments in the taught section of this programme ask students to apply their knowledge to scenarios from the outside world.
Assessments are practical deliveries and presentations of solutions.
In the Major Project, students are expected to work under their own initiative guided by a supervisor to conduct a research project of their choosing.
The assessment of students is explicitly linked to the pedagogical processes and learning outcomes of the degree programme.
Assessment is informative and diagnostic, as well as summative and evaluative.
The process will provide students with constructive feedback.
Students will be given the opportunity to pursue original thought and ideas and encouraged to question received opinion.
Forms of assessment include, but are not limited to: Coursework (case studies, essays, reports, projects, and practical exercises).
Project work (individual or collaborative).
Tasks aimed at the development of specific skills (including skills in writing reports, conducting user testing, data analysis etc.).
Portfolio work (including reflective journals, practical exercises, etc.)
MSc Design Research and its sibling course, MA Service Design, are taught in dedicated studios based in Merchiston Campus.
Teaching and learning are specifically designed to take advantage of the studio facilities and atmosphere.
The studios are a collaborative space where peer feedback and involvement are encouraged.
The PG studios are situated in close proximity to dedicated computer suites exclusive to students in the School of Arts & Creative Industries.
What are the entry requirements for Design Research?
Can I get admission into Design Research based on my working experience in this sector?
What can you do with an MSc Design Research degree?
Once you have obtained your degree in MSc Design Research from Edinburgh Napier University, you will have opened up opportunities to build a future career in the Design industry within the growing and in-demand field of Design Research.
Within this field, some specific roles you could find yourself working in include:
What are the current prospects in the Design Research industry?
In Scotland, and in particularly Edinburgh, Design Researchers are in demand from employers such as the Scottish Government, NHS SCotland, and creative agencies such as Dentsu and Nile.
The average salary for UK design researchers is £60,250 (Glassdoor, 2023).
Junior Designers typically earn between £25,000 - 34,000.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-creative-advertising-postgraduate-fulltime:
This is the most successful MSc course in the UK for aspiring creatives.
We teach practical skills and an understanding of the industry required for a career in advertising.
The world of advertising is fuelled by bright minds and creative thinkers.
It generates millions of messages that reach consumers via an ever-increasing number of channels.
Around 200,000 people are employed in UK advertising design and marketing, and at its heart are the ‘creatives’.
These are the art directors, copywriters, content creators and strategists who are the creative powerhouse of the industry.
This course has been developed in collaboration with the Scottish Institute of Practitioners in Advertising (IPA) and is taught by leading practitioners.
Brodie Childs MSc Creative Advertising student
Find out more about our annual showcase of creative talent from the School of Arts and Creative Industries.
"The calibre of the students from this course is seriously impressive.
Smart thinkers, encouraged to be bold and original by folk who know that ideas are more important than ever in our industry."
Phil Evans Executive Creative Director, The Leith Agency, Edinburgh
You’ll learn the best way to present your ideas and how to work collaboratively and individually as you create advertising across a variety of media, including print, TV, radio, outdoor and online.
Some live briefs are supported with visits to advertising agencies.
Your critical evaluation skills will also be developed as you explore the theories behind successful advertising campaigns and critique your own and others’ work.
Students have in recent years won “Yellow and Black Pencils” in the D&AD New Blood awards and medals in the IPA Awards Scotland.
We have won Gold awards in International Competitions too.
Subjects include:
We will draw out the creative within you.
With exciting and demanding workshops, led by our award-winning lecturers and industry experts.
Lead lecturer is George Shepherd an award winning Advertising creative and strategist, who has worked in the advertising industry, locally and globally, for over 35 years.
Notional grades will be informed after every project along with one-to-one tutorials.
You’ll be given a summative grade at the end of each trimester.
Work placements are arranged by the students themselves in Trimester 3 with help from tutors.
Our Merchiston campus , situated in the heart of Edinburgh, is home to creative industries students along with engineering and computing.
This mix of disciplines helps create an inspiring, innovative and collaborative atmosphere.
Inside you’ll also find the 500-seat Jack Kilby Computing Centre, open 24 hours a day in Trimesters 1 and 2, the library and the Edinburgh Napier Students’ Association.
What are the entry requirements for Creative Advertising?
Can I get admission into Creative Advertising based on my working experience in this sector?
The English Language requirements for this programme are IELTS (Academic) with an overall score of 7.0 with no individual component score of less than 6.5.
Enter the dynamic world of advertising and unleash your creativity in our intensive programme designed for aspiring advertising professionals.
Through a blend of theory, strategy, and hands-on practice, you'll learn to develop compelling and effective advertising campaigns that resonate with audiences and drive results for clients.
The course has one of the highest employment records in the University and graduates go on to lucrative careers in the Advertising industry.
Creative directors and agency owners have a strong interest in the course.
Every week we have a guest lecture from a senior industry professional as they are always keen to meet the students and discover new talent.
Industry-driven projects will expose you to employers and generate a valuable set of creative ideas that will enhance your portfolio.
After completing this degree, you can expect to work in one of these roles:
You'll have a chance to explore a diverse range of topics, from brand strategy and consumer psychology to copywriting and art direction.
Through real-world projects, agency placements, and industry partnerships, you'll gain practical experience crafting campaigns for a variety of media channels, from traditional print and TV to digital and social media.
This course will help you to become a strategic and creative advertising professional, ready to tackle the challenges of the advertising industry with confidence and flair.
Whether you aspire to work in advertising agencies, marketing departments, or creative studios, our MSc in Creative Advertising will provide you with the knowledge, skills, and connections to thrive in the fast-paced and competitive world of advertising.
As a Creative Director, you will lead the charge in shaping brand identities and storytelling narratives.
Your strategic vision and leadership will inspire teams to create compelling and memorable experiences across all channels.
In this role, you'll be the visionary behind marketing campaigns, brand activations, and creative projects that captivate audiences and drive results.
Your responsibilities will encompass everything from setting creative direction and managing teams to overseeing project timelines and budgets.
Picture yourself collaborating with clients and stakeholders to understand their objectives and brand values, then leading teams to develop innovative concepts and executions that bring those visions to life.
Leveraging your skills of design, copywriting, and multimedia production, you will create cohesive and impactful campaigns that resonate with target audiences.
Your focus will be on ensuring that every element of a campaign reflects the brand's identity and message while providing feedback on creative assets, or presenting concepts to clients,.
Your passion for creativity and your ability to inspire and motivate teams will set you apart as a visionary leader, driving innovation and excellence in every project you touch.
The average salary for UK Creative Directors is £160,500 (Glassdoor, 2023).
The most senior Executive Creative Directors can earn upwards of £250,000, plus car and annual bonus Junior Creatives typically earn between £27,000 – 38,000

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ma-heritage-and-exhibition-design-postgraduate-fulltime:
The MA Heritage and Exhibition Design will develop your understanding of core aspects of heritage, exhibition, and museum design, as well as site-specific interpretive installations in Scotland’s vibrant and expansive heritage sector.
All students will contribute to a public exhibition at the degree show through the module Art Direction.
You will study Creative Portfolio (Part 1) which will help you to determine your final submission, you have the option of producing a practice based or written output.
As well as exploring methods for interpreting heritage for a contemporary audience,  you will learn how to create visitor experiences and installations in key historic areas.
With a strong sense of integrity, you will develop an understanding of and sensitivity to the authenticity and preservation of historic sites for visitors.
Our student Ma Yohana Frias shares her experience of studying  MA Heritage and Exhibition Design course
The City of Edinburgh is the perfect location for the MA Heritage and Exhibition Design.
Edinburgh is a UNESCO world heritage site, and arguably one of the most picturesque cities in the UK.
Its world famous medieval Old Town has hundreds of historic sites, buildings, and monuments.
The Regency New Town boasts some of the most import neo-classical buildings in the world.
Beyond Edinburgh, we have access to Scotland’s extensive heritage industry with thousands of historic sites and buildings.
Your studies are based in collaborative studios where you will learn with and from peers across the MA Design courses.
You will learn the principles of critically examining and questioning established and dominant heritage narratives.
Alongside more traditional approaches to heritage, you will learn to highlight and communicate the heritage of marginalised and underrepresented communities and people.
Staff who teach on the programme are actively involved in research and practice.
The tutors on your module work, develop theory and practically explore the areas they teach.
What are the entry requirements for Heritage and Exhibition Design?
Can I get admission into Heritage and Exhibition based on my working experience in this sector?
Through a blend of theory, practice, and hands-on projects, you'll learn to create immersive and engaging exhibition experiences that bring history and heritage to life for contemporary audiences.
This studio based  programme is designed for aspiring designers and curators, you will enter the fascinating world of heritage and exhibition design and explore the intersection of history, culture, and creativity.
Graduates from this programme can pursue careers in:
You'll delve into a wide range of topics, from museum curation and interpretation to exhibition design and visitor experience.
You will learn explore and consider hidden and alternative heritage.
Through site visits, workshops, and collaborative projects with cultural institutions, you'll gain practical experience conceptualizing, designing, and installing heritage experiences that inspire, educate, and provoke thought.
You'll emerge as a skilled and visionary heritage and exhibition designer, equipped to work in museums, galleries, cultural centres, and design studios around the world.
Whether you aspire to curate exhibitions, design museum installations, or pursue a career in heritage conservation, the  MA in Heritage and Exhibition Design will provide you with the knowledge and skills, you need to succeed.
As an Exhibition Designer, you will immerse yourself in the world of experiential storytelling, where your creativity and spatial awareness will breathe life into spaces, making them immersive and unforgettable.
Blending architecture, storytelling, and multimedia, you'll craft exhibitions that not only engage but also educate and inspire audiences.
In this role, your responsibilities will range from conceptualizing exhibition themes and layouts to designing interactive installations and selecting materials.
Collaborating with curators, architects, and multimedia specialists, you'll weave together narratives that guide visitors on journeys of discovery and exploration.
Drawing on your expertise in spatial design, lighting, and multimedia integration, you'll create environments that tantalize the senses and evoke emotion.
You will be creating experiences that captivate and inspire while designing museum exhibits, trade show displays, or corporate installations.
Your passion for storytelling and your knack for translating concepts into physical spaces will make you a sought-after creative partner.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/mfa-heritage-and-exhibition-design-postgraduate-fulltime:
The MFA Heritage and Exhibition Design will develop your understanding of core aspects of heritage, exhibition, and museum design, as well as site-specific interpretive installations in Scotland’s vibrant and extensive heritage sector.
Part of a community of practice, this course benefits from bringing together designers from a range of disciplines into core modules, as well as modules specific to your chosen pathway such as  'Interpretation & Design' and Design for Heritage & Culture'.
All students complete the Art Direction module which is output through a collaborative public exhibition as part of the university’s annual degree show.
You will study Creative Research Portfolio Part 1  which will help you to determine and start the ground work to prepare for  your Major Project (MFA) topic.
The City of Edinburgh is the perfect location for the MFA Heritage and Exhibition Design.
Beyond Edinburgh, we have access to Scotland’s extensive heritage industry with thousands of historic sites and buildings.Developing exhibition, interpretative and practical production skills, you will learn how to create user/visitor experiences and installations in key historic areas.
The two year MFA offers students the opportunity to extend project work through an in depth, research-led creative enquiry.
The first year of the programme is aligned to the MA and you will undertake six modules developing subject specific-skills and knowledge, external research and entrepreneurial collaboration, and practice-based research.
You will end the programme with a highly professional portfolio that enhances industry and employment opportunities or (with an emphasis on research) offers a robust gateway into PhD-level study.
Colleagues teaching on the programme are actively engaged in research, knowledge exchange and/or consultancy work.
You will study a range of topics and given the opportunity to explore and develop new skills.
Your studies will explore the latest theories and thinking around heritage and exhibition design as well as being applied in the production of real-world artefacts.
Our well-equipped workshops will allow you to manifest your most ambitious ideas.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/mfa-heritage-and-exhibition-design-postgraduate-parttime:
To ensure there is sufficient time to process your application, we encourage you to submit your application by 30th June.
Members of the programme are actively engaged in research, knowledge exchange and/or consultancy work as part of the Art & Design Research Centre (ADRC), as well as professional practice.
The programme is supported by the Edinburgh Napier design team with specialist input from Euan Winton , Malcolm Innes and Dr Kirstie Jamieson, as well as input from industry based specialists and partners.
Malcolm Innes is a world-renowned expert in lighting design education.
Euan Winton has expertise in digital imaging and light art and projection.
They have both worked on a variety of heritage projects, most notably at the city’s Botanic Gardens, and with Edinburgh World Heritage on the revitalisation of some of the “closes” (the old medieval thoroughfares) that criss-cross the Royal Mile.
Malcolm has also worked with Historic Scotland, most recently at Elgin Cathedral.
Dr Kirstie Jamieson is currently working with the Deaf Heritage project on inclusion of deaf culture in Scottish public life provide.
You'll study a variety of subjects on the course, including:
The entry requirement for this course is a Bachelor (Honours) Degree at 2:2 or above in an art & design or related discipline (architecture, creative computing & engineering design)
All candidates are interviewed with a portfolio of creative work or technical/business projects.
Applicants from overseas can be interviewed by teleconference with an online portfolio.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ma-service-design-postgraduate-full-time:
One of the first of its kind in Scotland, this MA Service Design course aims to develop your skills in research design in order to set you up for an interesting and in-demand career as a Service Designer in one of the largest and fastest growing design sectors in the UK.
Service design is an increasingly vital profession that incorporates a set of unique skills.
Service designers improve the experience of interacting with organisations across a variety of sectors.
Service design incorporates and goes beyond user experience and interaction design to consider a holistic approach to designing with and for people.
On this programme, you will learn how to use stakeholder-centric research techniques as the foundation for designing services in the public and private sector.
You will work in a collaborative, iterative and imaginative studio, with teaching from leading industry experts and practitioners, to create proposals that respond to social, commercial and environmental challenges.
This programme is suitable to all design disciplines and many computing degrees.
Our interdisciplinary team will work with you in a creative environment to explore your practice as a service designer.
You will learn methods for evaluating understanding, evaluating and communicating user needs in complex services.
You will have the skills to propose and prototype solutions for user needs.
You will be introduced to the research methods and theoretical principles behind service design and how to apply them in real world scenarios.
Teaching activities might include: Lectures, tutorials, seminars, open discussion sessions, studio based workshops, studio visits, independent and group work, and guest lectures.
Assignments in the taught section of this programme ask students to apply their knowledge to scenarios from industry.
Assessments are practical deliveries of presentations to solutions.
MA Service Design and its sibling course MSc Design Research are taught in dedicated studios based in Merchiston Campus.
The studios are a collaborative space where peer feedback and involvement are encouraged.
These are situated in close proximity to dedicated computer suites exclusive to students in the School of Arts & Creative Industries.
What are the entry requirements for Service Design?
Can I get admission into Service Design based on my working experience in this sector?
What can you do with an MA Service Design degree?
Once you have obtained your degree in MA Service Design from Edinburgh Napier University, you will have opened up opportunities to build a future career in the Design industry within the growing and in-demand field of Service Design.
What are the current prospects in the Service Design industry?
In Scotland, and in particular, Edinburgh, Service Design represents one of the largest design sectors, with the Scottish Government, NHS Scotland and the financial services industry all being significant employers.
The average salary for UK service designers is £87,875 (Reed Recruitment, 2023).
Junior designers typically earn between £28,000 - £35,000.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/design-photography-and-advertising/student-stories:
Iona Jost, BDes (Hons) Interior and Spatial Design
James Parker, BA (Hons) Photography
Brodie Childs, MSc Creative Advertising

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/our-schools/school-of-arts-and-creative-industries/degree-show:
Come along to see our students from a wide array of disciplines present their projects and show how they have brought their creative concepts to life on 30 May – 6 June.
The event will be held at our Merchiston campus, it is free to attend and open to all.
Opening times:
Weekend: 11am - 4pm
Weekdays: 10am - 6pm
Don't worry if you can't make it to our 2025 Degree Show, you can still see all our students' work virtually here.
Join us to explore the world of Design and Visual Arts at Edinburgh Napier’s 2025 Degree Show.
Discover our students’ unique and innovative approaches as our school of Arts and Creative Industries presents a week-long celebration of undergraduate and postgraduate work, in this colourful show of originality and technique.
Come along on Saturday 31 May to catch up with fellow alumni and enjoy some refreshments before touring the Degree Show exhibition.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/our-schools/school-of-arts-and-creative-industries/industry-led-learning:
The School of Arts & Creative industries has employability at the heart of  all our programmes.
We are committed to ensuring that all of our students and graduates are well supported and prepared for placement and work experience opportunities, and for a successful career in a variety of industries.
Interested in a partnership with us?
Contact us at saciplacements@napier.ac.uk
Carmen's story
Deborah's story
Rebecca's story
The Student Futures Team are a group of employability experts committed to preparing students and graduates for success in their chosen careers via the provision of expert career guidance, engaging workshops, and valuable work experience opportunities.
In addition, we are dedicated to building strong relationships with local, national, and international employers and professional bodies to provide access to the latest opportunities and networking events.
For more information, visit our student futures page .
Diana's story
Klaudia's story
Ruaridh's story

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/news/creative-advertising-students-shine-at-oscars-of-the-advertising-world:
Valerie O'Connor and Maxime Rommes scoop pencils at the D&AD New Blood Awards
11:47
“These awards are for students from all around the world.
Typically they can get over 6,000 entries in each category and are regarded as the Oscars of the advertising world.
“Winning a pencil can open all sorts of work opportunities and really puts the winner on the map.”

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/meng-civil--transportation-engineering-undergraduate-fulltime:
As a civil engineer or transportation specialist, you’ll help create the built environment around us.
Bridges, airports, highways, buildings and railways present their own problems and challenges and need efficient and effective engineering solutions.
You'll learn the fundamentals of civil engineering and develop skills in structural analysis, transport systems, ground engineering, water resource management and transport planning.
You'll gain industry insights from site visits, a week-long survey camp, an overseas field trip and input from engineering companies.
H290
“It allowed me to find what I loved and where I’d see myself in the future.”
6:01
Get in touch with programme leaders, lecturers and researchers.
In year one you will learn the principles of Civil Engineering via an introduction to Materials, Structural Analysis, Construction Process and methods of Engineering Communication including use of industry standard software platforms.
The formative stages of your studies are specific to Civil Engineering and are not taught as part of a common first and second year.
All areas are underpinned by developing competency in relevant mathematical techniques and approaches to problem solving.
Once an understanding of the fundamental principles of Civil Engineering has been established, you will then progress on to more advance areas of Structural Design, Geotechnics, Fluid Mechanics and Transportation Engineering.
You will implement practical solutions across a range of applied applications and develop your skills in lateral problem solving and innovative thinking.
In your final year of study you will develop, manage and undertake a program of independent investigation under the guidance of an associated research supervisor.
You will also work as part of a team to fulfil a client’s project brief  relating to the development of a substantial piece of Built Environment Infrastructure – the successful fulfillment of this brief will require you to utilize all of the skills developed over the course of your studies with us.
MEng Dissertation and Integrated Engineering Design 2
MSc Transport Planning and Engineering Options; students must normally select four modules from the following options:
This degree is accredited by the Joint Board of Moderators (JBM) comprising the Institution of Civil Engineers, Institution of Structural Engineers, Institute of Highway Engineers, the Chartered Institution of Highways and Transportation and the Permanent Way Institution on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer (CEng).
See www.jbm.co.uk for further information.
What are the entry requirements for Civil and Transport Engineering?
Advanced entry into Year 2, Year 3 or Year 4 is possible for students with suitable qualifications.
–
A degree in civil & transportation engineering from Edinburgh Napier University allows for a wide scope of career options, including:
As a civil engineer, you have the option to be involved in many different projects, from simple structures (residential or office buildings) to more complicated ones, such as stadiums, bridges, hospitals, schools etc.
Depending on your specialisation, you may be involved in different aspects of a project, such as the foundation design (geotechnical engineer) or the structural design (structural engineer).
If you are interested in transportation systems and how to enhance them, a career in transportation engineering is the right for you.
If you are interested in construction, a career in construction management may be the right for you.
Some of our civil engineering graduates have even taken their numerical and mathematical skills gained during their studies to work in banking and financial industries.
The average salary for civil engineering professionals in the UK is around £40,300 and employment opportunities are everywhere, with good career progression opportunities The career options are wide and diverse, making civil engineering an exciting, in-demand and transferable course.
Civil engineers are creative individuals who enjoy problem solving and contributing to the built environment around us.
They plan, design and oversee nearly all aspects of construction projects.
Projects can come in many different forms, whether that is large buildings or essential infrastructure systems like railways and water management facilities.
Very often, civil engineers are involved in the monitoring and retrofitting of existing structures (such as older bridges) as they check their structural integrity and implement advanced technologies for their upgrading so that hey satisfy the latest design standards.
In addition, civil (geotechnical) engineers are involved in the risk assessment and mitigation of natural hazards, such as landslides, floods and earthquakes.
You could be responsible for planning, designing and overseeing the construction of large-scale buildings and our roads and railways systems, airport, bridges and harbours, as well as tall buildings like the Shard in London and large structures built to withstand any weather condition.
Civil engineers also work on projects that have huge environmental benefits such as waste and water management, or buildings and venues that may surprise you.
As a Transportation Engineer, you could be responsible for designing, planning, and managing transportation systems such as roads, highways, railways, airports, and public transit systems.
This may involve optimizing traffic flow and improving safety.
You will also collaborate with city planners and policymakers to develop sustainable urban environments.
This can include designing efficient land use patterns, implementing transportation solutions, and integrating infrastructure with community needs.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bengbeng-hons-civil-engineering-undergraduate-fulltime:
The profession of Civil Engineering covers many branches, allowing graduates to choose from a wide range of careers including; geo techniques, water engineering, hydraulic structural engineering, environmental engineering and transportation.
This course will give you an advanced introduction to each of these areas allowing you to decide on your specialism.
Once specialised, you are not limited to your chosen field, but also have an understanding of how these other specialisms fit into the wider context.
You will learn the fundamentals of Civil Engineering and the specifics of structural analysis, construction surveying, geotechnical engineering and relevant computer applications, as well as getting the chance to get experience in the field with a civil engineering internship.
Combining mathematical and design skills, as well as communication and management abilities, our course offers many skills that can be applied to a range of civil engineering projects that will appeal if you have a creative mindset and jump at the opportunity to solve complex problems.
Civil engineers contribute to our ever-expanding built environment, becoming a civil engineer means you can make a real impact on communities around the world.
Full-time (available as MEng )
(available as MEng )
H203
“Modules are taken off-site which gives you that hands-on experience, putting the theory work into practice.”
00:40
In year one you will learn the principles of Civil Engineering via an introduction to Materials, Structural Analysis, Construction Process and methods of Engineering Communication including use of industry-standard software platforms.
Once an understanding of the fundamental principles of Civil Engineering has been established, you will then progress on to more advanced areas of Structural Design, Geotechnics, Fluid Mechanics and Transportation Engineering.
In your final year of study you will develop, manage and undertake a programme of independent investigation under the guidance of an associated research supervisor.
This degree is accredited by the Joint Board of Moderators (JBM) comprising the Institution of Civil Engineers, Institution of Structural Engineers, Institute of Highway Engineers, the Chartered Institution of Highways and Transportation and the Permanent Way Institution on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as an Incorporated Engineer (IEng) and partially meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer (CEng).
Candidates must hold a masters or doctorate accredited as further learning for CEng to hold accredited qualifications for CEng registration.
See www.jbm.co.uk for further information and details of Further Learning programmes for CEng.
What are the entry requirements for Civil Engineering?
Standard Entry Requirement: BBBB to include Maths (Higher Applications of Maths not accepted).
Minimum Offer Entry Requirement: BCCC to include Maths (Higher Applications of Maths not accepted).
BTEC National Diploma (Level 3) plus A level
If you are looking for a diverse career path that offers endless opportunities then civil engineering is for you.
If you are at school you should include maths, English and sciences in your subject choices.
Engineering is generally a creative field so subjects such as art, design and technology and computing are also very useful as they teach you the skills that you’ll need.
Other useful skills include teamwork and languages as a career in engineering will allow you to work anywhere in the world with a wide range of people.
Edinburgh Napier University has articulation agreements with many partner colleges so if you are already studying engineering you could gain advanced entry into second year and continue your studies to gain your honours degree in civil engineering.
A degree in civil engineering from Edinburgh Napier University allows for a wide scope of career options, including:

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/meng-civil-engineering-undergraduate-fulltime:
As a civil engineer you’ll help create the built environment around us.
H202
In addition student must select four modules from the following:

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bengbeng-(hons)-electrical-and-electronic-engineering-undergraduate-fulltime:
Electrical & Electronic Engineering is a fascinating field, and one which could make your time at university a challenging, enriching and rewarding experience.
Electrical & Electronic Engineering is something that touches all aspects of our lives and is something we simply couldn't do without.
If you like the idea of creating electrical and electronic systems which could help millions of people on a day to day basis, like the systems used in phones, computers or the generation and distribution of electrical supply systems, then a degree in Electrical & Electronic Engineering is for you.
This course balances the study of electronic and electrical engineering and focuses on the application of these skills to real-world engineering situations.
Study is broad enough to allow entry to a variety of career paths in all areas of electronic and electrical engineering.
Additionally, students can progress to postgraduate research in this or a related field.
H606
In year one the course focuses on learning engineering principles and practices, as well as computing skills and principles of design, relating to a wide range of engineering disciplines.
You will then further develop your knowledge in the principles of the field and engineering management.
In your final year you will work on your honours project as well as gaining enhanced skills in areas of analogue electronics, embedded systems and electrical machines and power systems.
What are the entry requirements for Electrical and Electronic Engineering?
BTEC National Diploma (Level 3) plus A Level
Science/Technical subjects accepted:
*Physics, Engineering Science, Design & Manufacture, Chemistry, Environmental Science, Graphic Communication, Computing Science, Design & Technology.
* Physics, Engineering Science, Design & Manufacture, Chemistry, Environmental Science, Graphic Communication, Computing Science, Design & Technology.
An Electrical & Electronic Engineering degree from Edinburgh Napier University equips you with a diverse set of skills and knowledge that can lead to various career paths across different industries.
Here are some potential career options:
This degree will develop a strong foundation in calculus, differential equations, linear algebra, and physics principles, which are essential for understanding and analyzing electrical and electronic systems.
You will also learn how to analyze and design electrical circuits, how to process and manipulate signals, learn about digital logic design and microprocessor systems, learn how to apply engineering principles to solve complex problems etc.
These skills are highly transferable and can be applied to various industries and career paths within electrical and electronic engineering, as well as related fields such as computer engineering, telecommunications, and renewable energy.
Electrical engineers design, develop, and oversee the manufacturing of electrical systems, devices, and components across various industries.
They create efficient and reliable designs for circuits, power distribution systems, control systems, and communication networks, using principles of mathematics, physics, and engineering.
In addition to designing electronic devices such as computers, smartphones, and medical equipment, they conduct tests and troubleshoot issues to ensure compliance with safety standards and regulations.
Often leading or contributing to engineering projects, they manage budgets, schedules, and collaborate with interdisciplinary teams.
By continuously engaging in research and professional development, electrical engineers stay updated on advancements in their field to innovate and solve complex technical challenges.
Their work spans industries such as telecommunications, transportation, energy, healthcare, and manufacturing, contributing to the advancement of technology and improving quality of life worldwide.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bengbeng-hons-electrical-and-electronic-engineering-undergraduate-parttime:
It is something that touches all aspects of our lives and we simply couldn't do without.
If you like the idea of creating electrical and electronic systems which could help millions of people on a day to day basis, like the systems used in phones, computers or the generation and distribution of electrical supply systems, then a degree in Electronic & Electrical Engineering is for you.
Study is broad enough to allow entry to a wide variety of career paths in all areas of electronic and electrical engineering or as an engineer working within other types of organisations.
In year one you will develop knowledge in the principles of the field and engineering management.
During years two and three you will implement practical solutions across a range of applied applications and develop your skills in lateral problem solving and innovative thinking.
Please note there is no year 1 entry for part-time to this course.
Applicants applying directly to year 4 must meet the required Engineering Council Accreditation of Higher Education Programmes (AHEP) learning outcomes.
This may require additional information to be provided by the applicant as part of the application process.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/meng-electrical-and-electronic-engineering-undergraduate-fulltime:
During your studies, you will develop the ability to analyse electronic and electrical engineering systems, designs, processes and products, use computer-aided engineering tools and design techniques, as well as learn how to apply management and business concepts.
Industrial employers are increasingly seeking graduates for managerial and professional level positions and this MEng course will provide you with the specialist skills for a successful career in electronic and electrical engineering.
H6H0
You will then progress on to further develop knowledge in the principles of the field and engineering management.
In year four you will undertake an individual, industry-focused research project to help you gain the project management skills needed by professional engineers and gain advanced technical understanding of the design, control and integration of electrical power, embedded systems and electronic digital systems.
In your final year you will have the opportunity to develop your team-working skills through a multidisciplinary group project.
You will also gain enhanced skills in areas of digital signal processing, communication electronics and distributed power systems.
What are the entry requirements for Electric and Electronic Engineering?
Pass HND in Engineering Systems, Electrical Engineering or Mechatronics with grade A in all SCQF Level 8 Graded Units.
Must include passes in the modules Engineering Maths 1, 2, 3 and 4.
Pass in a relevant subject with 60% overall, with a minimum of 50% at first sitting in all final year subjects.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bengbeng-hons-energy-and-environmental-engineering-undergraduate-fulltime:
Gain the skills required to solve the environmental challenges in society and the wider industry.
You’ll graduate equipped for a career as a professional engineer in the renewable, built environment and traditional energy industries.
As an energy engineer, you’ll be exploring cleaner, more efficient ways of using fossil fuels, while investigating and specifying the design of renewable energy developing systems using renewable and sustainable resources, such as solar and wind energy.
You will also look at how local climate impacts on the design and selection of these systems, and consider their life cycle and carbon footprint.
HJ69
The course focuses on learning engineering principles and practices, as well as computing skills and principles of design, relating to a wide range of energy systems.
You'll also learn methods of applying energy-efficiency in design, engineering practices and create more environmentally-friendly forms of industrial design and manufacture.
In year 1 you will learn fundamental principles underpinning both mechanical and electrical engineering sciences, and hands on practical skills.
You will then progress on to year 2, further developing these fundamental skills while beginning to specialise in thermodynamics and mechanical engineering, while considering control and automation systems, key elements of design and engineering management skills.
In year 3, you continue to specialise in your chosen field, gaining insight in to the design and application of renewable energy systems, detailed design and innovation practices and engineering applications.
In your final year you will work on your honours project as well as gaining enhanced skills in analysis of energy efficient design in relation to building energy systems design, and power systems analysis.
What are the entry requirements for Energy and Environmental Engineering?
*Physics, Engineering Science, Design & Manufacture, Chemistry, Environmental Science, Graphic Communication, Computing Science, Design & Technology.
Studying BEng/BEng (Hons) Energy & Environmental Engineering, you’ll learn about different technologies used to harness renewable energy sources.
You will be designing environmentally friendly and sustainable engineering systems for reducing energy consumption and learning how to assess and evaluate the environmental impacts of engineering projects.
By complying with environmental regulations and policies, you will plan, organize, and manage engineering projects, while also developing strong communication skills necessary for effectively conveying technical information.
This Energy & Environmental Engineering degree lays the foundation for careers in pivotal fields like sustainable energy, impact assessment, waste management, and influential roles in environmental consulting.
Upon this foundation, an array of exciting and impactful careers beckon, including roles such as:
Sustainable Energy Engineer: Innovate and contribute to the design and implementation of renewable energy solutions that power a greener tomorrow.
Environmental Impact Analyst: Scrutinize the potential ecological repercussions of various projects, ensuring a harmonious coexistence between development and nature.
Waste Management Specialist: Lead the charge in responsible waste disposal practices, striving to minimize environmental harm while efficiently managing resources.
Environmental Consultant: Offer expert guidance to industries, governments, and organizations, steering them towards eco-friendly practices that align with sustainability goals.
As an environmental engineer, you will play a crucial role in addressing environmental challenges and promoting sustainability.
You will be tasked with evaluating the environmental impact of projects, carefully assessing their potential effects on the surrounding ecosystem.
You will also play a crucial role in designing sustainable infrastructure, incorporating eco-friendly practices and technologies.
Additionally, you will be responsible for implementing strategies to handle and dispose of waste materials in an environmentally responsible manner.
By engaging in environmental education and outreach programs, you will raise awareness about environmental issues.
Looking to the future, you will also contribute to research and development activities, exploring innovative solutions and technologies to address environmental challenges.
Energy engineers are also in demand in the building services design sector, development of renewable energy installations, helping clients to create more energy efficient homes, offices and factories.
You might work in various sectors, including consulting, government, industry, research, and non-profit organizations.
By applying engineering principles, sustainable development and planning initiatives, you will actively participate in creating a more sustainable future.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bengbeng-hons-mechanical-engineering-undergraduate-fulltime:
Study mechanical engineering at Edinburgh Napier University and gain the opportunity to enter an exciting and varied field of engineering, allowing you to design and develop machinery we use every day including vehicles, building, healthcare and even space technology.
We will provide you with an introduction to engineering principles, ensuring you grasp the basic skills involved before progressing into more specialised areas such as thermodynamic systems and mechanics of materials.
As you advance through this course you’ll learn to apply and develop your skills to become proficient in the analysis and design of a range of engineering systems and applications, to prepare you for a professional role in the industry.
You will also get the opportunity to undertake work placements that will give you essential industry experience and valuable contacts, helping to lead to future employment.
You’ll also learn about Computer Aided Engineering (CAE), which includes robotics and control, computer aided design software (CAD), computational analysis of fluid flow and heat transfer (CFD), structural analysis (FEA) and environmental impact assessments (LCA).
Through this, you will graduate with a versatile degree that will allow you to embark on a career in many different industries.
As a graduate mechanical engineer, you could develop exciting new technologies that are essential for modern living, alter the way we use energy for the better, and have a profound effect on how we travel.
In fact, you could have a hand in almost every aspect of people’s lives.
Today, mechanical engineers play a key role in producing the most innovative of technologies, such as the electric car, 3D printing, nanotechnology and renewable energy.
H300
“I’ve always loved building and fixing things.
Mechanical Engineering gave me the chance to make a career out of that.”
00:35
The course focuses on learning engineering principles and practices, as well as computing skills and principles of design, relating to a wide range of mechanical engineering systems.
You'll also cover control and instrumentation systems, engineering applications, fluid mechanics, thermodynamics, and dynamics and statics.
You will gain skills in a wide range of up-to-date industry standard design software and applications.
In year 1 you will learn fundamental principles underpinning both mechanical and electrical engineering sciences, and hands-on practical skills.
In year 3, you continue to specialise in your chosen field, gaining insight in to manufacturing systems, materials properties and selection, and detailed design and innovation practices and management.
In your final year you will work on your honours project as well as gaining enhanced skills in thermodynamics, dynamics and statics.
What are the entry requirements for Mechanical Engineering?
Advanced entry into Year 2, Year 3 Or Year 4 of this course is possible for students with suitable qualifications.
*Physics, Engineering Science, Design & Manufacture, Chemistry, Environmental Science, Graphic Communication, Computing Science, Design & Technology.
* Physics, Engineering Science, Design & Manufacture, Chemistry, Environmental Science, Graphic Communication, Computing Science, Design & Technology.
Mechanical engineers have creative minds, great team working skills and they love problem solving.
Does this sound like you?
School subjects for a mechanical engineering course usually include Maths, English and Sciences.
Other subjects that also teach you key skills required for this course are Design, Business Management, Computing and Technology.
Edinburgh Napier University accept direct entry for students coming from college, so if you are already studying engineering you could gain advanced entry into second year and continue your studies to receive your honours degree in mechanical engineering.
Balmoral Group Scholarship
The Balmoral Group will award a scholarship to the top 2 performing students in BEng Mechanical Engineering.
On completing their first year, the selected students will be awarded the scholarship for the remainder of their course.
Recipients will be awarded a maximum of £3,000 over the following three years of their degree (£1,000 a year), and will also be invited for an optional summer internship with Balmoral Group.
An undergraduate degree in mechanical engineering is a sought-after and skillful profession that most industries rely on.
As a graduate in this field, you will be able to choose where you want to specialise.
Given the broad nature of the discipline, you may find yourself working in any one of a wide variety of fields, ranging from:
Our course also equips you with key transferable skills in computing, maths and project management which will allow you to pursue a career in software, finance and management roles.
Mechanical engineering offers a rewarding salary for workers in the UK and beyond.
The average salary for Mechanical Engineering professionals is £42,200 in the UK.
Mechanical engineers make a positive impact on our daily lives and we depend on them even when we don’t know it.
They are responsible for developing technologies we need to live, making a difference to the way we use energy and how we travel.
Recently, mechanical engineering has played a key role in emerging fields of technology such as renewable energy, electric vehicles, biomechanics, nanotechnology and 3D printing.
If you are creative and enjoy working with machines, then a degree in mechanical engineering would set you up for an exciting career path where you can bring your ideas to life.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/meng-mechanical-engineering-undergraduate-fulltime:
This five-year course takes the basics of BEng in Mechanical Engineering and delves deeper, with an emphasis on industry relevance.
You'll learn the principles of the field and use the latest technology to devise and implement practical solutions across a range of industry applications.
H301
Learn current engineering practices and work to develop your own systems and solutions in response to a variety of applications.
You'll also become adept in the gathering, analysis and application of data, using information to your advantage to create effective mechanical engineering systems and solutions.
As you learn to integrate your knowledge of mathematics, science, information technology, design and business, you'll apply it to increasingly complex situations, developing your skills in lateral problem solving and innovative thinking.
This degree is accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) as fully satisfying the educational base for a Chartered Engineer (CEng).
ATAS
Please note this course requires an ATAS certificate unless you are a UK, EEA or Swiss national.
The Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) is designed to provide additional security checks on students who study certain courses in Science and Engineering.
The scheme is managed by the ATAS Team based at the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO).

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-advanced-materials-engineering-postgraduate-fulltime:
Offered only at selected universities in Scotland at Masters Level, this course is information rich, but also provides a significant degree of hands-on practical work that utilises a wide range of manufacturing, testing and characterisation equipment.
The limited number of graduates in this area, combined with the knowledge, expertise and practical skills developed in this specialised field, gives you a major advantage over other engineering graduates as you seek employment within the materials-related industries.
We have been successfully teaching a Masters programme in materials engineering for more than 20 years, leading the way in the study of this field.
Staff are very experienced and undertake both academic research and commercial projects, both of which support students’ learning experience.
10:14
"Whenever people ask me about Edinburgh, my reply is that it's amazing!"
Gain exposure to the latest trends in design, materials, manufacturing processes, testing and advanced applications by taking full advantage of our modern technology and computing facilities.
The course has been designed to provide you with knowledge of materials (Polymeric, Metallic, Ceramic and Composite); allowing you to develop your skills further in more application and research based areas of materials engineering such as smart materials and materials in energy based applications.
You'll benefit from our first-class research and knowledge transfer partnerships with local, national and international companies.
Accredited by the Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining, we have excellent industry links and encourage you to interact with industry too.
You’ll learn by a variety of teaching methods including lectures, tutorials, practical sessions and independent study.
• September starts: 12 months
• January starts: 18 months with a three-month break over the summer (after the first taught trimester)
Assessment methods include research and laboratory reports, presentations (oral and poster), and examinations.
Industry relevant materials testing equipment within the course includes – Scanning Electron Microscopy, EIS, FTIR, corrosion chamber, micro-abrasion analysis and the mechanical testing suite.
This module allows the student to have a critical knowledge of engineering ceramics and composites.
Engineering ceramics and glasses are in important classification of material and an understanding of these materials from their crystal structure and imperfections to their many astonishing applications including – thermal, electrical, mechanical and optical properties are explored.
To evaluate the properties and gain knowledge of the various ceramic and glass structures and manufacturing processes must be characterised.Composites in engineering are an amalgamation of metals, polymers or ceramics in various compositions or structures.
This module will investigate the various manufacturing methods and properties of the different families of composites; metal matrix composites, ceramic matrix composites, polymer matrix composites, natural and structural composites.
Applications of composite materials are very important in the world today due to the nature of the composites being tailored for a specific job.
Materials in energy production and storage, such as: fuel cells, wind turbines, solar panels, offshore structures, biomass, nuclear catalytic materials, nanotechnology, processing techniques, heat transfer in materials and instrumentation.
The role of materials engineering in the circular economy from cradle to grave.
Forensic materials engineering is a field of study that combines the principles of materials science and engineering with the legal system to investigate and solve problems related to the failure or malfunction of materials and structures.
This can include analysing and interpreting physical evidence, determining the cause of failure, and providing expert testimony in legal proceedings.Overall, forensic materials engineering combines scientific, engineering and legal aspects to understand how and why a material or structure failed, to determine the cause of failure and to provide expert testimony in legal cases.Through this module we will become familiar with many of the techniques and processes utilized in forensic engineering and consider failure mechanisms theory to predict life time and consider risk management aspects.The module is very practical focused to ensure all students have the opportunity to participate and design their own learning in a structured environment.
This module provides a comprehensive understanding of metallic structures and their processing.
Key topics include:•	Metallic Structures: Explore slip systems, imperfections, dislocation production and movement, and diffusion processes.•	Phase Diagrams and Transformations: Study eutectic, solid solution, partial, and intermediate compounds, along with structural transformations, hardenability, and various heat treatments.•	Deformation: Understand formability, superplasticity, and the mechanisms of hot and cold working processes, as well as hardening and strengthening techniques.•	Metal Processing: Delve into the extraction and physical metallurgy of various metals and alloys, with a focus on metal extraction and bulk deformation processes.This module aims to equip students with the knowledge and skills necessary to analyze and improve the properties and performance of metallic materials in engineering applications.
In this module you should expect to cover the following topics; Structure, properties and applications of commodity, engineering and high performance thermoplastics and thermosets.
This will include Polymer blends, materials & process selection and manufacturing with polymers including Injection moulding, thermoforming and extrusion.
This module covers aspect in the field of tribology and smart materials or processes.The approach is to use the knowledge and understanding of materials science & engineering in these fields focusing on applications and benefits to society.Smart materials, also known as smart or intelligent materials, refer to materials that have properties that can be altered or controlled in response to external stimuli such as temperature, stress, light, electric or magnetic fields, or other environmental factors.
These materials are designed to exhibit specific, controllable responses to changes in their surroundings.
The use of smart materials in engineering can lead to innovative applications and improved functionality in various fields.The application of smart materials in engineering allows for the development of adaptive, responsive systems with enhanced performance and functionality.
These materials play a crucial role in various industries, including aerospace, automotive, healthcare, and electronics.Some common smart materials & processes which may be covered in this module: Additive Manufacture, Piezoelectric Materials, Shape Memory Alloys (SMAs) and Self-healing Materials.Surfaces - both in terms of the requirements for coatings and surface modification and the applications of the coatings in engineering industries.Tribology is the science and engineering of interacting surfaces in relative motion, including the study of friction, wear, and lubrication.
It plays a crucial role in materials engineering and is essential for understanding and improving the performance and longevity of materials and mechanical components in various systems.By understanding and controlling tribological factors, materials engineers can optimize material selection, surface treatments, and lubrication strategies to improve the efficiency, reliability, and lifespan of mechanical components and systems.
Tribology research contributes to advancements in materials science, surface engineering, and the development of new materials with enhanced tribological properties.
01:37
What are the entry requirements for Advanced Materials Engineering?
We look for applicants to have a background in a physical science or engineering subject.
This includes degrees in physics and/or chemistry.
Please note, nationals of particular countries who receive an offer for this course are required to apply for an ATAS certificate.
More information about this can be found on the GOV.UK website.
Can I get admission into Advanced Materials Engineering based on my working experience in this sector?
Studying for an MSc in Advanced Materials Engineering provides a comprehensive understanding of materials science principles and their applications across multiple disciplines.
This can equip you with a diverse range of skills that are valuable in various industries, particularly in the following ones:
Materials engineering is inherently interdisciplinary, drawing from fields such as chemistry, physics, mechanical engineering.
You will acquire technical skills through coursework, laboratory work, and research projects, as well as soft skills such as critical thinking, problem-solving, communication, and project management.
Overall, an MSc in Advanced Materials Engineering provides a strong foundation in materials science and engineering principles, along with practical skills that are highly sought after in various industries.
This is why graduates with an MSc in this field are highly sought after by employers seeking expertise in materials design, development, and optimization.
A materials engineer is a professional who specializes in understanding the properties, behaviors, and applications of different materials.
Their role encompasses various aspects of materials science and engineering, with a focus on designing, developing, testing, and optimizing materials for specific purposes.
As a materials engineer, you will design and develop new materials or modify existing ones to meet desired performance criteria.
You may also conduct experiments and tests to evaluate the properties and behaviors of materials under various conditions.
You will optimize manufacturing processes to produce materials with consistent quality and performance.
You will often collaborate with cross-functional teams, including scientists, engineers, designers, and manufacturers, to develop materials-based solutions for specific applications.
Effective communication skills are essential for conveying technical information, presenting findings, and collaborating with stakeholders.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-advanced-materials-engineering-postgraduate-parttime:
Offered only at selected universities in Scotland at Masters level, this course is information rich, but also provides a significant degree of hands-on practical work that utilises a wide range of manufacturing, testing and characterisation equipment.
We have been successfully teaching a Master’s programme in materials engineering for more than 20 years, leading the way in the study of this field.
Accredited by the Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining , we have excellent industry links and encourage you to interact with industry too.
This is a flexible part-time course starting in September of January.
Normally students will take three years to complete the programme.
All projects are practically focused with an emphasis on using industry-standard manufacturing and testing equipment.
Many projects are live, meaning you'll be working for professional  clients.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-advanced-mechanical-engineering-postgraduate-full-time:
In the MSc Advanced Mechanical Engineering, we ensure that students develop comprehensive views of their subject beyond one single perspective or worldview.
We incorporate different perspectives across the disciplines and highlight the fact that to become an industry leader of the future, the engineer needs to have a broad knowledge of all the related disciplines and know how to use them individually or combined to tackle technical problems with confidence.
Component materials, design, computational analysis, efficient production and unmanned manufacturing methods are the most important aspects that a mechanical engineer should master.
In addition, studying in a multicultural environment with students coming from different backgrounds will give you a real view of how industry works.
You will have the opportunity to experience this in your Group Design Project module, where students will propose a multidisciplinary project and will work together to deliver it.
Findings will be given to a panel of experts in the form of a collaborative oral presentation and a technical report.
The Global Outlook integrated into this programme has been designed in consultation with key industry players and following their recommendations.
This programme aims to develop your interest in and knowledge and understanding of Advanced Mechanical Engineering & Design to succeed in a fast-changing sector by covering topics such as CAD and Finite Element modelling, Design for Manufacture and Sustainability, and Control and Materials Engineering, to enable you to:
This MSc is a project-based programme where the students will work on the virtual environment as well as with hands-on models that will help them develop the necessary skills to succeed as an engineer in the industry of the future.
Finite element simulation, LCA, statistical analysis, industrial plant layout, reverse engineering projects and robot programming are some of the topics to be covered in this provision.
Typically, you will receive two hours of lectures and two hours of tutorials/practice sessions per module per week where you will be taught following a project-based approach.
You will sit exams, produce practical work in the lab and through computational simulations, and work on a final research project based on a selected realistic engineering topic.
The university facilities available to you will include library, VLE, ENSA and all practical engineering facilities including dedicated computer labs with the relevant software [CAD, materials selection, LCA and FEA etc.], mechanical testing, manufacturing facilities and materials characterisation equipment.
Each facility will be utilised through the modules and are available for you to use with appropriate training and health and safety documentation during your project.
Design for X is short for ‘Design for excellence'.
X refers to the multitude of aspects that should be considered when engineering a product.
In previous design modules, you have considered some aspects, such as manufacturing, assembly, and modularity in design.
In this module, you will develop a deeper understanding of many other aspects beyond product design functionality.
You will develop your knowledge about integrated product design, considering several topics such as realisation of design intent in manufacturing, commercialisation, ergonomics, supply chain and quality.
You will work on futureproofing of product designs by applying technology 'road-mapping' techniques in the design process.
The interaction of the product with the surroundings is then explored, you will learn how to design for safety to operators and other objects and to consider the wider impact of the production and operation on the environment.
Finally, you will analyse how different requirements can be in conflict and learn how to reach an informed decision that would achieve the best possible product.
An engineering design project is a project type that applies engineering principles to create and develop a new product, system, or process.
It typically unfolds in several stages: problem identification, conceptual design, detailed design, prototyping, testing and validation, and implementation.The problem identification stage is about recognizing a need or problem to be solved and setting the project's goals and objectives.The conceptual design stage involves brainstorming various solutions to the problem and assessing the feasibility and compromises of each.The detailed design stage includes producing comprehensive drawings, specifications, and instructions detailing how to construct, test, and operate the end product, system, or process.The prototyping stage is when a model or prototype is built to test and confirm it fulfills the project's goals and objectives.The testing and validation stage is dedicated to ensuring the prototype meets the design requirements and any applicable standards.The implementation stage is where the final product, system, or process is constructed and put into use.Engineering design projects span numerous fields, including mechanical, electrical, civil, and chemical engineering.Examples of such projects are the design of a novel wind turbine, the development of a new manufacturing process, or the design of an innovative bridge.
These projects may also encompass research, development, and innovation, and be backed by various sponsors like companies, research institutions, and government bodies.In essence, an engineering design project is a multidisciplinary endeavor that applies engineering principles to conceive, develop, and execute a new product, system, or process to meet a particular need or challenge.During this module we will approach this process as a consultancy with your group(s) as the consultancy and the academics as client [and support] taking a chosen project through the stages to the point of potentially prototyping.
The aim of the module is to provide advanced skills in mechanical computer-aided engineering, and to apply the skills using suitable software tools to solve realistic engineering problems.
Several techniques will be explored, such as using bespoke mathematical models for complex part creation.
Improving the productivity of using CAE packages by defining parameter relationships, parameterization, and design reuse.
In the second half of the module, machine kinematics and kinetics will be explored and applied in the context of real-life examples.
Finally, the structural integrity of components will be critically assessed considering the dynamics of machine operation.
The module gives the students the opportunity to acquire skills in the use of digital manufacturing methods and their integration with computer aided design (CAD).
The module covers Location strategy and its impact on the attainment of corporate objectives;  the criteria for evaluating location decisions, computerised location and distribution planning.
Consideration is given to the range of processes and equipment selection including quality and reliability issues as well as facilities layout and layout patterns including job shop, batch, assembly lines and group technology.You will apply operations scheduling and production activity control techniques to a variety of production systems.You will use appropriate digital tools and techniques to support all of the major decisions made in manufacturing planning including: assembly process validation, ergonomics and human task analysis, line balancing, automation and factory simulation.You will also apply a range of quality improvement techniques including: pareto charts, histograms, cause and effect diagrams, SPC, and lean six sigma in a Total Quality Management framework.
What are the entry requirements for Advanced Mechanical Engineering?
We look for applicants to have a background related to mechanical, structural, manufacturing or aeronautical engineering.
We may also consider lesser qualifications if you have sufficient relevant work experience within the mechanical/manufacturing engineering industry.
Can I get admission into Advanced Mechanical Engineering based on my working experience in this sector ?
On successful completion of this programme, you will have the knowledge, understanding and skills to opt for a career in both the private and public sectors.
This will include:
Alternatively, you will be eligible to apply to doctoral-level study in mechanical/structural engineering, computational modelling, energy, manufacturing and engineering design at the University or to seek entry to doctoral-level study at another higher education institution.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/mscpgdippgcert-advanced-structural-engineering-postgraduate-fulltime:
Accredited by relevant professional bodies and designed to meet the needs of the modern construction industry, this course offers a wide range of structural engineering principles as you learn about issues relating to steel and concrete structures and foundations.
Through this highly technical course you will develop skills in numerical simulation using a variety of advanced software.
You will also learn failure analysis methods, the Eurocodes and the code of practice for the design of various construction materials, research skills and the legal issues surrounding construction.
The course is accredited by the Institution of Civil Engineers (ICE), the Institution of Structural Engineers (IStructE) and the Chartered Institution of Highways & Transportation (CIHT).
Industry practitioners are regularly invited as guest speakers and lecturers.
The main approach is face-to-face lectures and tutorial.
In addition to this, computer labs are used to teach engineering software and structural laboratory will be used to conduct small to large-scale structural test.
You will also undertake independent learning and research.
Heavy structural lab at Merchiston allows to conduct small to large scale structural engineering tests.
Computer suites supports students to use different finite element based software to analyse and design structures.
This module introduces the fundamental principles of the Finite Element Method (FEM) for structural and solid mechanics applications, providing a systematic approach to solving boundary value problems in elasticity using numerical techniques.
It begins with a review of matrix algebra, covering essential mathematical concepts and matrix operations relevant to FEM.
Structural analysis methods, including the force method and stiffness method, are introduced to establish the foundation for solving structural systems.
The module explores the fundamentals of stress and strain, addressing equilibrium conditions, compatibility equations, and constitutive relations in elasticity.
The formulation of boundary value problems in elasticity is discussed alongside solution techniques and practical examples.
Students will learn the finite element formulation process, including discretisation, element formulation, assembly procedures, and solution techniques.
Applications of FEM to truss and beam elements are covered, with a focus on stiffness matrix development and structural analysis.
The study extends to plane stress and plane strain elements, addressing their formulation and application to two-dimensional elasticity problems.
Through theoretical discussions and practical exercises, students will develop a strong understanding of FEM principles and their application in engineering analysis.
In this module, you will demonstrate extensive, detailed and critical knowledge and understanding of advanced topics on structural concrete design.
In the first part, you will learn to critically assess and examine the impact of a variety of materials for making concrete, you will critically explore concrete mix design principles and estimate the properties of fresh and hardened concrete.
Materials science and Fracture Mechanics for Concrete will be the foundation for you to exercise appropriate judgement and assess concrete strength, dimensional stability and durability considerations, enabling the creation inspection and maintenance strategies.
In the second part, you will begin by conceptualizing Prestressed Concrete Design principles and you will advance towards producing complex calculations for Prestressed Concrete  and Composite Prestressed/RC Structures (Bending and Shear).Finally, you will analyse Composite Steel-Concrete structures problems and display mastery of designing composite sections (ULS) and shear connectors.
In this module, you will demonstrate extensive, detailed and critical knowledge and understanding of advanced topics on structural steel design.
You will critically engage with the design process and design philosophies and will review and evaluate relevant analysis topics.
You will need to display mastery of use of the structural Eurocodes to examine the impact of structural design principles and loading regimes, to then critically engage with the design requirements for structural steelwork (material properties, section classification, axially loaded and flexural members - in individual member configurations and lattice girders).
By the end of the module, you will be able to exercise appropriate judgement and draw conclusions regarding elastic instability implications and advanced design problems of Lattice girders, comprising flexural and torsional buckling, in-plane behaviour of thin plates and inclusion of stiffeners.Finally, you will critically explore fatigue analysis of steel under different loading conditions.
This module deals with the behaviour of soils and their interaction with structures under cyclic or seismic loading.
So far, you have examined the effect of static loading regime upon soils.
But earthquakes and other types of dynamic loading (such as vibrations, wind load and ocean waves) create a different condition, where loads are applied at a certain pattern (sinusoidal or random), frequency and time duration.
Such a loading regime normally requires a different approach in design.
Keeping this in mind, the module is divided in two sections: In the first section we will start by introducing some fundamentals on the dynamic response of discrete systems, wave analysis, soil dynamics and site effects.
In the second section of the module, we will review some of the static geotechnical design procedures you should have already met, or at least be capable of mastering, such as bearing capacity of foundations, lateral earth pressures and retaining wall design.
We will then proceed to explore the response and the various design considerations under seismic loading for typical engineering structures, such as retaining walls, slopes, pipelines, inshore and offshore piles.
This module enables students to develop an understanding of the undertaking of a self-contained research project with a focus on independent study.
Students are required to arrange regular one-to-one supervision with the dedicated supervisor.
These meetings may take place face-to-face, online, or a combination of both, and will be used to report progress on learning plans, strategies and content dependent upon the topic area.Students are expected to undertake a sustained, rigorous and independent investigation of a particular topic related to structural design and sustainable material,.
Additionally, they must critically evaluate the research design and methodology employed, and analyse the outcomes of the research in terms of the performance measures considered and potential benefits and practical applications.
In this module, students will learn the dynamic responses of structures with applications of Single Degree of Freedom (SDOF) and Multiple Degree of Freedom (MDOF) models.
Students will study various numerical and analytical approaches to examine the behaviour of structures under dynamic loads, especially wind, blast and earthquake loading.
They will also craft an ability to develop computer-based (e.g.
Finite Element) applications to analyse and design structures under dynamic loads.
The earthquake engineering part will enhance student knowledge on assessing seismic capacity, considering factors such as typology, configuration of structural elements and non-structural issues.Further explanation of seismic hazard/risk follows, and links with underlying physics and structural dynamics are presented.
The response spectrum concept is explained on the basis of considering responses from SDOF systems to a particular ground motion.
Design options to EC8.
Important concepts such a seismic performance levels, fundamental requirements, importance factors and elastic/design response spectra will be taught, and students are strongly encouraged to check these excerpts from the original EC8 document.
An Introduction to the Module, Timber and Timber engineering – Andrew Livingstone (AL)3.
Ultimate Limit State & Serviceability Limit State and the Basis of Timber Design – Andrew Livingstone (AL)4.
Member design: analyse and DESIGN statically determinate timber beams, columns and load-bearing elements – (AL)5.
Material Grading, Classification and Mechanical Properties: the material properties of time and how it is classified and graded for structural use – Dan Ridley Ellis (DRE)6.
Case Study / Coursework: an overview of a case study with design related coursework activity – (AL)7.
Connections 1: The theory of connection DESIGN and Eurocode design principles – (AL)8.
Connections 2 / Diaphragm Action: An overview of other connection types such as toothed nailed plates and moment connections and also the design of systems using connections such as wall diaphragms – (AL)9.
Engineered and Truss Systems: the DESIGN principles of engineered systems including truss design - Wojciech Plowas (WP)10.
Mass timber design: the DESIGN principles – (WP)  11.
Massive Timber Systems: an overview of the varying types of mass timber systems and their structural DESIGN considerations – (WP);  Engineering Timber Products and Systems: Case study of structural timber use by an invited guest lecturer – TBC12.
Fire: fire performance of structural timber systems in the temporary and permanent state – Ivor Davies,   Dynamics / Vibrational Performance: theory of the dynamic response of timber systems and vibrational performance – (AL)
This degree is accredited by the Joint Board of Moderators (JBM) comprising of the Institution of Civil Engineers, Institution of Structural Engineers, Institute of Highway Engineers, the Chartered Institution of Highways and Transportation and the Permanent Way Institution on behalf of the Engineering Council as meeting the academic requirement for Further Learning for registration as a Chartered Engineer (CEng).
To hold accredited qualifications for CEng registration, candidates must also hold a Bachelor (Hons) degree that has been accredited as partially meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer (CEng).
See www.jbm.org.uk for further information.
*It should be noted that candidates completing the MSc who hold an underpinning accredited Bachelor degree accredited for IEng only or a non-accredited bachelor degree will need to apply for an academic assessment to determine whether they will meet the educational base for CEng registration.
What are the entry requirements for Advanced Structural Engineering?
The entry requirement for this course is a 2:2 or above for a Bachelor (Honours) Degree within the Civil Engineering discipline.
Can I get admission into Advanced Structural Engineering based on my working experience in this sector?
The MSc Advanced Structural Engineering degree at Edinburgh Napier University provides in-depth, specialized knowledge in the field of structural engineering.
Holding this degree can open up opportunities for various positions with increased responsibilities and salary potential, including:
You will have the opportunity to engage in cutting-edge research projects, allowing you to contribute to the advancement of the field while gaining valuable research experience, so you can continue in the field of research.
You will develop proficiency in analyzing complex structural systems using advanced computational methods and software tools.
You will also develop project management skills necessary for planning, coordinating, and executing structural engineering projects effectively.
This includes budgeting, scheduling, resource allocation, and communication with stakeholders.
The daily responsibilities of a structural engineer can vary depending on their specific role, industry, and project requirements.
You may often spend time designing and analyzing various structural systems, including buildings, bridges, dams, and other infrastructure projects.
This involves using specialized software tools to perform calculations, simulations, and finite element analysis to ensure that structures meet safety, performance, and durability requirements.
You will typically work closely with architects, contractors, project managers, and other professionals involved in the design and construction process.
You will review architectural plans, engineering drawings, and construction specifications to ensure compliance with building codes, regulations, and industry standards.
As a structural engineer, you will play a critical role in the design, construction, and maintenance of safe and resilient structures that withstand various environmental, seismic, and loading conditions.
Their daily tasks involve a combination of technical analysis, collaboration, project management, and quality assurance activities to deliver successful engineering projects.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/mscpgdippgcert-advanced-structural-engineering-postgraduate-parttime:
You will also learn failure analysis methods, the eurocodes and the code of practice for the design of various construction materials, research skills and the legal issues surrounding construction.
This is a flexible part-time course starting in September or January.
Normally students will take two years to complete the programme but this can vary depending on your other commitments and availability.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-automation-and-control-postgraduate-fulltime:
Automation and control are important aspects of modern manufacturing and utility supply.
Many manufacturing assembly lines and processes utilise programmable control systems.
It is essential to equip the prospective engineer in this field with the appropriate theoretical and practical knowledge.
This course will extend your skills across essential areas in the field of automation and control.
You’ll use your existing knowledge of engineering theory and practice as the base to build new skills in this field such as embedded systems and control system design.
Using specialist equipment in our dedicated laboratories, you’ll learn to use Programmable Logic Controllers (PLCs) and Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) systems, the industry standard for the development of effective control systems.
Read stories from students of Engineering study area
The course is accredited by the Institute of Engineering and Technology (IET).
Combined with a suitable accredited undergraduate degree, the MSc degree would then satisfy the academic requirements of the UK Engineering Council for Chartered Engineer (CEng) status.
You will be taught through a combination of lectures, tutorials, seminars and also through practical hands on experience using relevant laboratory equipment .
You will have access to control and automation equipment such process control rig, robotic arm, various microcontroller hardware, programmable logic control (PLC) and sensors.
In addition, you have access to a number of technical software such as Siemen PLC and Matlab.
In this module, you will learn to design, program and implement solutions for industry-level automation tasks using Programmable Logic Controllers (PLCs) technology.
You will learn the five programming languages described in the IEC61131-3 standard and program the Siemens S7-1500 PLC series in the practical laboratories.
You will learn the software design method Sequential Function Charts to implement large-scale solutions.
In the laboratory, you will program discreet and analogue sensors and actuators using closed- and open-loop control techniques for logic-based, sequential, and continuous control.
The module includes cyclic and interrupt processing, fault diagnostic techniques, and sensor and measurement systems selection.
You will learn to tune PID controllers using reaction curves and ultimate cycle methods.
The module also includes the design and implementation of Human Machine Interfaces (HMI) and Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) systems.
You will learn and apply security standards to handle emergencies, conditions outside the working regime, user management and access to historical data.
This module delivers advanced insight into the design, integration, and evaluation of modern instrumentation systems within engineering contexts.
Students will critically analyse and justify the selection of sensor technologies, signal conditioning elements, and system components, with a focus on real-world industrial and research applications.
The module explores the limitations and uncertainties inherent in measurement systems, encouraging reflective evaluation of sensor accuracy, noise, and reliability.
Emphasis is placed on the role of intelligent instrumentation and the influence of emerging technologies in automation and data acquisition.
Students will engage with the design and architecture of intelligent control systems, including the use of various microcontrollers and embedded platforms.
Through coursework and practical application, learners will demonstrate their ability to specify, design, and critically assess instrumentation systems in line with relevant professional, industrial, and regulatory standards.
04:22
What are the entry requirements for Automation and Control?
We are looking for an academic background in a relevant engineering field e.g.
electrical, electronics, electrical & electronics, automation, control or mechatronics.
We may also consider other degrees related to Mechanical Engineering.
We may consider lesser qualifications if you have sufficient relevant work experience within the industry.
Please note that nationals of particular countries would be required to apply for an ATAS certificate, if they receive an offer for this course.
Can I get admission into Automation and Control based on my working experience in this sector?
Automation and control technologies are increasingly integral across various industries, including manufacturing, energy, transportation, and healthcare.
As automation continues to advance, there is a growing demand for skilled professionals who can design, implement, and optimize automated systems.
Studying MSc Automation and Control degree from Edinburgh Napier University offers several career benefits and opportunities.
This includes working in the following sectors:
The MSc curriculum provides students with in-depth knowledge of automation technologies, control systems, instrumentation, and data analytics.
This specialized expertise is highly valued by employers seeking professionals who can drive innovation and efficiency in automated processes.
Automation and control are global industries, offering opportunities for employment and career advancement worldwide.
The programme includes lectures, tutorials, practical laboratory sessions and projects, allowing students to gain hands-on experience with state-of-the-art automation equipment and software tools.
This practical experience enhances students' technical skills, transferable skills and prepares them for global challenges.
The daily responsibilities of an Automation Engineer can vary depending on the industry, company, and specific projects they are working on.
You may often design and develop automated systems, including robotic systems, industrial control systems, and process automation solutions.
This involves analyzing requirements, specifying components, and creating detailed designs to meet project objectives.
You might also have to write code and develop software programs to control automated equipment and systems.
You will conduct testing and debugging activities to ensure that automated systems function correctly and meet performance requirements.
This may involve simulating real-world conditions, troubleshooting hardware and software issues, and optimizing system performance.
As an Automation Engineer, you will ensure that automation systems comply with relevant industry standards, safety regulations, and quality assurance procedures.
You have to stay informed about changes in regulations and standards to ensure compliance and mitigate risks.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-renewable-energy-postgraduate-fulltime:
Renewable energy technologies have become an important part of energy production.
Strong initiatives and investments from the public and private sectors have made this a rapidly growing field and created further career opportunities in the sector.
This is one of the few courses offered at Masters level which not only encompasses renewable energy technologies but also complements with the essential related elements of renewable energy finance and environmental law.
These elements touch on financial analytical tools, project structuring, finance and management in renewable energy, while the law element will consider legal framework impacting upon renewable energy provision.
The course will extend your skills into various renewable energy technologies such as wind, solar, hydro, biomass etc.
Study renewable energy capture, energy storage, energy audit and life-cycle analysis, as well as learning the concept of the system, design, development and applications.
The course is accredited by the Energy Institute UK.
You will have access to modern laboratory equipped with relevant technical software for your studies such as Matlab and ERACS.
This module will help student to develop knowledge and skillset in the area of solar energy system.
The module covers various aspects and through both lectures and practical sessions supports you in understanding and developing the relevant skillsets.
This module explores the following key aspects of the topic:-Modelling and analysis of the solar geometry and solar irradiation data.Review of various existing and emerging solar technologies and their performance.Detailed design of electrical and thermal solar energy systems.
Energy storage system design and analysis.An overview of energy management for renewable energy system.Economic and energetic analysis of solar-based energy system.
What are the entry requirements for Renewable Energy?
We look for applicants to have a background in a relevant engineering field such as electrical, electronics, electrical & electronics, mechanical, automation, control, energy or renewable/sustainable energy in order to be eligible for the programme.
Other degrees in the relevant subject will be considered for this programme.
Can I get admission into Renewable Energy based on my working experience in this sector?
Studying for an MSc in Renewable Energy at Edinburgh Napier University can offer numerous career benefits, especially in today's rapidly evolving energy sector.
This degree has opened up a wide range of career opportunities across different sectors for our graduates, including:
Renewable energy is a global industry, with opportunities available in almost every country around the world.
This degree equips students with knowledge and skills that are applicable internationally, allowing for flexibility in career location and mobility.
The renewable energy sector is dynamic and constantly evolving, with ongoing research and development efforts aimed at improving technologies and finding new solutions.
Studying for an MSc in Renewable Energy provides students with the opportunity to engage in cutting-edge research and innovation, positioning them as leaders in the field.
Careers in renewable energy often offer competitive salaries, particularly as the demand for skilled professionals continues to rise.
Additionally, as renewable energy technologies become more widespread and efficient, the economic viability of renewable energy projects increases, leading to greater job security and earning potential for professionals in the field.
As a Renewable Energy Consultant, you will be mostly conducting research on renewable energy technologies, market trends, policies, regulations, and best practices.
Analyzing data related to energy consumption, production, and distribution will also be a part of your daily responsibilities.
You will be also performing feasibility studies to assess the viability of renewable energy projects.
This includes evaluating factors such as resource availability, technical feasibility, economic viability, and environmental impacts.
You will be a crucial part of renewable energy projects from conception to completion.
This may involve coordinating with various stakeholders, overseeing project timelines and budgets, and ensuring compliance with regulatory requirements.
You have to provide expert advice and recommendations on renewable energy solutions tailored to meet client objectives.
Overall, you will play a crucial role in helping clients navigate the complex landscape of renewable energy, providing expertise, guidance, and support to facilitate the successful development and implementation of renewable energy projects.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-transport-planning-and-engineering-postgraduate-fulltime:
Developments in transport shape the world we live in and influence communities’ economic and social wellbeing.
Transporting people and goods provides a serious challenge for politicians, transport planners and engineering specialists.
During your studies you will examine the major transport issues facing society and learn the main techniques applied in analysing and resolving transport problems.
Full-time (available as Part-time | Online-learning )
You will gain an understanding of transport systems through studying issues such as transport modelling and appraisal techniques from a theoretical and practical perspective.
You will also learn how to develop effective transport strategies to address a range of different scenarios.
Your studies will also benefit from our excellent links with industry and the transport research community, allowing you to gain a good understanding of the profession from industry-relevant teaching, guest lecturers and by engaging with transport practitioners and researchers.
Part-time and distance learning options allow those working in the industry to expand their professional capabilities and meet the educational requirements for chartership.
As well as our own academic staff, we regularly have guest lecturers from industry on specific relevant topics.
Each module is also supported by an extensive range of online teaching and learning materials.
Due to accreditation requirements, all modules are assessed by a combination of coursework and final exam.
As a student of Edinburgh Napier University, you will have access to specialist IT labs subject related software that is used on the programme.
The module comprises two components.
The taught part of the module offers (in Trimester 2 only) an introduction to research in transport.
You will learn how to identify research objectives and questions linked to the existing knowledge gaps in the transport field.
You will develop the skills to carry out a literature review, searching for literature by means of the resources available through the University.
You will see examples of research methods, focusing on surveys and interviews.
You will learn the fundamentals of statistical inference and run some tutorials on statistical tests.
You will attend research seminars, which give them the opportunity to interact with professional researchers.
You will have to submit a research proposal and review the proposal of a fellow student.The second component is the development of a dissertation on a topic of your choice.
You will work under the supervision of a member of the staff you can choose.
The deadline to submit the dissertation depends on when you take the last taught module and on your student status (full- or part-time) as per regulations.
The the module is broken down into three overarching themes:Introduction to Public Transport:This section outlines the major roles that public transport plays within society today, the different governance structure surrounding the delivery of public transport, the different approaches taken to the delivery of bus and rail public transport services, and some of the practical outcomes of these approaches.Issues in Public TransportThis section of the course develops some of the ideas outlined above further, to examine the different roles that public transport plays in supporting the local society and the wider economic community.
Specific topics will include urban based public transport (what Americans call 'public transit'), the role of public transport in the more general social inclusion debate, attitudes and behaviours towards public transport usage, issues surrounding the provision of public transport in rural areas, and finally long distance public transport, which also includes examination of high speed rail and domestic air services.The Planning of Public TransportThe final section of the course considers topics associated with the planning and operation of public transport services.
This will normally be examined under four specific areas which are public transport network design, the costing of public transport operations, including issues that need to be considered when bidding for a local authority contract, the use of intelligent transport systems (ITS) in the planning and management of public transport services and finally public transport information, and pricing, which includes real time information and smart ticketing.
The module will introduce students to the current industry design standards, guidelines, as well as introduce to the Best Practices within Europe and Internationally.
The module will provide students with the skills to perform a) Geometric design of a Roadway, b) Design principles for selection of an Intersection type, c) Design of Priority Intersections, d) Design of Roundabouts, e) Traffic Signal Design, f) Understanding of corresponding implications on Road Safety and Sustainability, and g) Special Provisions for Cycling.
Communication and report writing skills will be developed in the individual coursework element of the module which will contribute to 40% of the total assessment.
To develop the real life problem solving skills, and working within a specific time frame, an online centrally timetabled exam (60%) will be conducted.Examples used for teaching will be derived from transport research and studies, including real project case studies and global challenges.
Research and scholarly activity will be fundamental in this module, particularly with reference to the coursework.
Students will be asked to undertake scholarly activity and leverage relevant information from research publications, academic journals and industry websites to assess current developments in Traffic Engineering.
Particular emphasis will be given to the sustainability aspect of the design work that is conducted through the coursework, as the students are asked to appraise the impact of real-life design concepts on road operations and the users, and to identify design solutions that will optimise driving behaviour and network operations and minimise the long- term nuisance to the local communities and environment.
Supporting equality and diversity.
This module has been developed to reflect international practices in Traffic Engineering.
Unit 1:Highway Geometric Design Considerations Unit 2: Highway Geometric Alignment DesignUnit 3: Highway Geometric Design – Intersections Unit 4: Highway Geometric Design – Roundabouts Unit 5: Isolated Traffic Signal Design Unit 6: Advanced Isolated Traffic Signal Design Unit Unit 7: Linked Traffic Signals DesignUnit 8: ITS for Road Network OperationsUnit 9: Design Principles for Cycling.Unit 10: Human Centric Transportation Design and Human Error
Unit 1: Development Management	Unit 2: CyclingUnit 3: Walking and Inclusive Mobility Unit 4 : Safety Data Collection and Analysis Unit 5: Collision Prevention and ReductionUnit 6: Human Error and Reliability in Transportation SafetyUnit 7: Situation AwarenessUnit 8: Drift to DangerUnit 9: Road Safety Policy, Strategies and Speed ManagementUnit 10: TDM through behavioural changeUnit 11: Street Layout and Design, and Parking Management
In the “economic” part of the module, we introduce the crucial economic problem of scarcity, and its relevance to transport issues.
We describe the characteristics of free and planned markets, and how these resolve the basic questions of what, how and for whom goods and services  should be produced.
We then examine the underlying economics of the market in terms of demand and supply.
The economic costs of mobility and how these are accumulated are then examined, before we study the economists model of perfect competition and then, from this hypothetical “ideal”, we move to consider government intervention in the form of transport subsidies and regulation that are needed in reality to provide society with the level of accessibility it requires in a sustainable and equitable way.The “appraisal” part explains the need for appraisal procedures in the private and public sectors.
We examine the business cases required to take decisions on public transport investments in the UK.
We present WebTAG, the UK public appraisal system used to generate the evidence required in the transport business cases.
We analyse the content of transport studies produced according to WebTAG guidelines, with particular focus on calculation of benefits for transport users and social cost benefit analysis.
Finally, we examine the potential wider impacts of transport investments on the economy, the environment and society, and discuss the necessary conditions to foster positive impacts.
The module starts by considering the process of policy making and who is responsible for transport policy e.g.
supranational, central and local government structures and the role of the private sector.
Problems and trends in transport demand and an introduction to policy perspectives; economic instruments in transport; taxes and subsidies, funding mechanisms, road pricing; direct regulation of street space); Land use planning and the management of transport demand; evolution of road and rail networks; rural transport policy; parking policy; town-friendly traffic planning; green commuter plans; “Smarter Choices” behavioural change measures, the mobility impaired in transport policy.Implementation and evaluation of transport policy.
Case studies of transport policy and planning approaches in various International cities.
The module is divided into three parts including a total of 14 units.
The contents of these units are as follows:Part 1: Introduction to transport planning and modellingThis section includes introduction to transport planning and modelling and data collection.
Part 2: Transport and Traffic ModelsThis section includes trip generation techniques; trip distribution modelling (growth factor and synthetic techniques); modal choice modelling, Traffic flow theory, Microscopic simulation models, Random models of traffic and queuing models.Part 3: Assignment and Route Choice ModelsThis part includes route choice studies; traffic assignment models (including capacity restrained and stochastic methods); elastic demand methods; matrix estimation.
Overview of currently used transport modelling software.
What are the entry requirements for Transport Planning and Engineering?
We look for applicants to have a background in Civil Engineering, Social Sciences, Geography, or Maths in order to be eligible for the programme.
In addition, a sufficient level of mathematical ability is also required.
Can I get admission into Transport Planning and Engineering based on my working experience in this sector?
This industry accredited qualification offers good career prospects, especially as there is an increasing demand for transport planning graduates in the UK.
On completing the course, you will have a wide range of job opportunities and career advancement prospects, such as:
The programme provides specialized knowledge and practical skills in transportation planning, traffic engineering, urban infrastructure design, and sustainable transportation solutions, making graduates highly competitive in the job market and valuable assets to employers.
Students have the opportunity to interact with industry experts, guest lecturers, and alumni through seminars, workshops, and networking events, which can lead to valuable connections, internships, job placements, and mentorship opportunities.
With an increasingly interconnected world, the program may offer opportunities for international study, research collaborations, and exposure to global transportation challenges and solutions, preparing graduates for careers in diverse geographical contexts and cultural settings.
As a Transportation Engineer, you may begin the day by reviewing project plans, timelines, and deliverables.
This may involve coordinating with project managers, clients, and team members to ensure that project objectives are clear and tasks are assigned appropriately.
You will also review engineering calculations, design drawings, and project documents to ensure accuracy, compliance with standards, and adherence to project specifications.
You may perform quality control checks to identify and resolve errors or inconsistencies.
You will be visiting project sites to conduct field surveys, site inspections, and data collection activities.
This may involve using surveying equipment, GPS devices, or other tools to gather information about existing conditions and assess the feasibility of proposed designs.
Overall, your daily activities will involve a mix of technical analysis, design work, collaboration, communication, and problem-solving to effectively plan, design, and manage transportation infrastructure projects.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-transport-planning-and-engineering-postgraduate-parttime:
Part-time (available as Full-time | Online-learning )

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-transport-planning-and-engineering-postgraduate-online-learning:
The course is approved as the further learning component required for Charter status by the Institute of Civil Engineers (ICE) and the Chartered Institute of Highways and Transportation (CIHT), as well as for the TPS/CIHT’s Transport Planning Professional qualification (TPP).
As such, there is a requirement for formal moderated examinations for five of the modules.
Your studies will also benefit from our excellent links with industry and the transport research community, allowing you to gain a good understanding of the profession from industry-relevant teaching, and by engaging with transport practitioners and researchers.
For the award of MSc you must successfully pass all seven modules, giving a total of 180 credits.
Formal moderated examinations are required for all 20 credit modules, apart from Transport Demand Management and Road Safety.
The online materials have been designed to support you to study at a place and pace which suits your needs.
Where specialised software is used, you will be given access to it.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/study-with-us/apprenticeships/beng-hons-civil-engineering-ga:
The BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering Graduate Apprenticeship covers many branches, allowing graduates to enhance their career prospects through their employing organisation in areas such as geo techniques, water engineering, hydraulic structural engineering, environmental engineering and transportation.
Learn the fundamentals of Civil Engineering and the specifics of structural analysis, construction surveying, geotechnical engineering and relevant computer applications.
This programme is suitable for people already in industry looking to upskill and bring new knowledge to the workplace, as well as those looking to kick-start their career in Civil Engineering.
Professional Practice modules are work based and timetabled in the summer trimester, for which there is no on-campus requirement, offering greater flexibility for your work-based learning activities
National 5 grade B in English.
What can you do with a Civil Engineering degree?
If you are interested in design and construction you could specialise as a structural engineer, or work in transport and urban planning.
If you want to help improve lives and make an impact, you can build a career in public health or environmental engineering.
What do Civil Engineers do?
They plan, design and oversee nearly all aspects of construction projects.
Projects can come in many different forms, whether that is large buildings or essential systems like railways and water management.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/study-with-us/apprenticeships/beng-hons-engineering-design-and-manufacture-ga:
As Edinburgh Napier University is committed to delivering an excellent personalised student experience, you will have the opportunity to acquire knowledge and develop many valuable skills, such as the ability to collect, analyse, interpret and understand data and information.
In acquiring this knowledge and developing the said skills, you will also appreciate the value of education and the contribution it makes to society.
The GA framework at Edinburgh Napier University builds on the strengths of the undergraduate teaching and learning programmes (full and part-time) in Mechanical Engineering, Electronic and Electrical Engineering, and Engineering with Management, Edinburgh Napier University has offered over the past 35 years.
The EDM programme delivered by the School of Computing, Engineering and Built Environment (SCEBE) shall draw on this legacy to meet the expected demand for suitably qualified engineers.
Please note: this course will not be accepting year 1 applications for September 2025 entry
The GA delivered by Edinburgh Napier University’s School of Engineering and the Built Environment (SEBE) offers just such a workplace learning experience for those employed in the manufacturing sector.
Within the EDM Graduate Apprenticeship, the degree content is delivered according to the principles and outcomes detailed in this framework.
The aim of this Graduate Apprenticeship in Engineering: Design and Manufacture is to produce graduates with:
Normally, you will attend the university for one fixed day per week during term-time, with some modules being work-based and delivered remotely.
When not at university, full support will be provided via our virtual learning environment.
There is no upper age limit.
You can apply if you're 16 or over.
Some vacancies might be for ages 18 and over, because of health and safety requirements.
To enter this programme at the start of Year 1 you must have either:

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/engineering/facilities:
Edinburgh Napier University 10 Colinton Road EH10 5DT +44 (0) 131 455 2477 sebeadmin@napier.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/engineering/engineering-placements:
Choosing to undertake a placement will offer you a fantastic opportunity to engage in challenging real-world situations, allowing you to apply various theories from the classroom and putting your developing skills to the test.
You will spend time in the workplace ranging from 1 week to 20 weeks, gaining real-life, hands-on work experience in a relevant field of study.
They provide an opportunity to apply what you have learned through lecturers and tutorials to real life working environments.
We have found that not only will it help you decide what you want to do when you graduate, it could potentially lead to graduate job offers.
Research suggests that those who have completed a placement achieve a higher degree classification overall.
At Edinburgh Napier, we pride ourselves on our strong links with industry, and that is why our current and past students have worked with some of the most influential businesses in the Engineering sector.
- Annie, BEng Civil Engineering.
- Bartosz, MSc Advanced Structural Engineering.
On the following course, students will have the opportunity to take on a 20-week placement, starting in Trimester 1 during your 5th year studies.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/engineering/engineering-student-stories:
A collection of mini video lectures from BEng Civil Engineering and MSc Advanced Materials Engineering.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/impact-case-studies/formula-student-team-napier:
As the world's largest and most established educational engineering competition, Formula Student (FS) challenges teams to design and build a single-seater race car, and then come together to compete in a series of static and dynamic events.
Formula Student gives participants the opportunity to get hands-on experience in many aspects of the engineering design process, which translate to real-world professional skills.
This includes facets like research & design, manufacturing & testing, as well as marketing, managing finances and overall management.
Formula Student Team Napier was founded on December 21st, 2021.
Since it's inception, students have been hard at work developing an internal combustion car which will compete at the Silverstone circuit in July, 2023.
Currently, the FSTN team has over 50 active students who are spread across various roles within the team, which is further split into five departments (Technical, Driverless, Operations, Public Relations & Finance).
In addition to the car, the team is also developing autonomous driving software in order to compete in the Formula Student AI (FS-AI) events.
The software will be implemented on a car that IMechE provides, and is pioneered by computing students at Edinburgh Napier.
“What the team has achieved since we started work at the beginning of 2022 is extraordinary.
We have diligently and passionately been working in the background, setting our sights high as we try to enter both the FS and FS-AI classes in the competition for the first time here at Edinburgh Napier.
It really is the most incredible family, and I couldn’t be prouder to be a part of that.” - Lucas, FSTN Team Principal .
In July 2022, the team went to Silverstone to spectate the Formula Student UK competition to learn how the event runs, and get some tips before we compete in 2023.
You can watch the full video of the Formula Student Silverstone experience by checking out the video above, and you can also read more about the experience in the FSTN newsletter .
Keep up to date with FSTN on Instagram , Facebook , Twitter and LinkedIn .
Joining Formula Student Team Napier provides an exciting opportunity to meet and work with other like-minded students on a significant and engaging project in a professional environment.
There is no better way for engineering students to kick-start their career in the industry, and will provide opportunities to learn soft-skills in a team environment beyond the classroom.
Working on this project allows students to try things and learn what works for them in a supportive, friendly environment.
If you are interested in working within Formula 1 or Motorsport in general, then projects such as FSTN provides an important experience that will benefit any graduate entry within the sector.
For example, many current engineers working in Formula 1 teams today are previous Formula Student graduates.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ma-writing-genre-fiction-postgraduate-online-learning:
T his course is ideal for writers of commercial genre fiction who are looking to take their craft to the next level.
If you already have talent and ideas, this online programme is designed to add the expertise you need to approach your chosen market with confidence, originality and skill.
During your studies you will focus on popular fiction genres enabling you to professionalise your practice as a writer; be it science fiction, fantasy, romance, crime, horror and historical fiction — you choose which to put at the heart of your learning journey.
In addition, our team of award-winning and bestselling authors will give you regular one-to-one creative and editorial mentoring sessions to support your development.
This MA is designed to be studied part-time over five trimesters.
In the first, second and third trimester, you will study two modules each trimester.
In the fourth and fifth trimester, you will undertake a single module: Major Project.
This programme has a start date in January every year.
During the first trimester, the two modules you take (Creating Narrative, and Narrative Position) each have one live weekly online seminar, which will be timetabled for a time which aims to suit the whole cohort depending on geographical locations.
There is also one module with a live weekly seminar in the second trimester (Writing Genre Fiction) and third trimester (Authorship), again timetabled for a mutually suitable time.
For other modules (Creative Development, Editorial Development and Major Project), you will have occasional live events again the time of these will aim to suit the geographical locations of the cohort.
Mutually convenient times for one-to-one meetings with your programme tutor will be arranged in advance.
Before applying for the programme please ensure you are have flexibility to attend the live online sessions which will most likely take place within the UK business day (9.00 – 5.00 p.m.
UK time), allowing for relevant daylight savings hour changes at different points of the year.
All other modules are taught one-to-one, with live online meetings arranged individually with your tutor at mutually convenient times within the UK business day (9:00am - 5:00pm UK time).
Online learning (Part-time)
Katie Griffiths MA Creative Writing graduate
MA Creative Writing graduate Pim Wangtechawat's Major Project novel, The Moon Represents My Heart, secured representation at a top literary agency, a two-book publishing deal, and an adaptation option from Netflix with Gemma Chan (Crazy Rich Asians, Captain Marvel) attached to executive produce and star.
Introducing our Creative Writing tutors - David Bishop, Elizabeth Dearnley, Nicholas Binge and Noelle Harrison.
Learn more about their backgrounds and their impressive careers in writing so far.
Uniquely, the course offers a dynamic and pioneering range of popular genre fiction specialisms.
Students can pursue their passion for fantasy, crime, mysteries and thrillers, historical, romance, science fiction, horror and writing for young adults.
We host an exciting array of guest speakers each year, ranging from award-winning authors to high-profile industry experts.
Recent visiting speakers have included authors Victoria (V.E.) Schwab, L.R.
Lam, Sandra Ireland, comics creators Emma Beeby and Will Morris, agents Jenny Brown and Juliet Mushens, and editor Frankie Edwards.
What are the entry requirements for Writing Genre Fiction?
To apply you will need a Bachelor Honours Degree with 2:2 or above in any discipline or other qualifications/experience which demonstrate through our recognition of prior learning process that you have appropriate knowledge and skills in Writing Genre Fiction equivalent to SCQF level 10.
Can I get admission into Writing Genre Fiction based on my working experience in this sector?
As all learning, teaching and assessment activities are conducted in English, if your first language is not English you must have a minimum International English Language Testing System score of 6.5 with all four elements having a score of no less than 6.0.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-english-undergraduate-fulltime:
This English degree will develop your critical skills and nurture your awareness of the enduring appeal of literature in the modern world.
Study English literature from Shakespeare to contemporary popular culture, via classic works of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries.
You’ll learn about these texts in their cultural-historical contexts and within wider theoretical frameworks, considering the ways they function in society.
You’ll study English within exciting interdisciplinary contexts and benefit from the wide range of subject expertise within the English subject group.
The course provides the opportunity to study at a partner university overseas, or take a work placement in industry.
This qualification will prepare you for a career in a number of areas of the cultural and creative industries and beyond.
We have a 94% satisfaction rate for our English course (National Student Survey, 2024)
Q300
Edinburgh Napier is where I felt my confidence begin to flourish.
The University tutors were excellent and always there to guide and support me on my journey.
Kirsty Lee
BA (Hons) English Alumni
Miriam Hussain Rebel Intern, Scottish Book Trust
I chose to move to Edinburgh because I fell in love with the City as well as the course.
After researching the degree and attending open days, I knew that it was the University for me.
-Atlanta Hodson, final year BA (Hons) English student
You’ll learn about major genres and critical issues within the field of English studies including a range of subjects from:
Option modules include creative writing in Years 2 and 3.
This course aims to develop a broad knowledge of the relationships between literature, culture and the modern world.
By the end of the course you'll be able to engage in informed and critical readings of literature and to understand the contexts within which works of literature are produced.
You'll learn by a variety of teaching methods including lectures, seminars, workshops and independent study.
Module choices in creative writing allow you to apply your understanding of literature to your own creative work.
There are no additional costs that are mandatory to pass the course.
All compulsory texts studied on the programme should be available in the university library.
Accessing those texts may require student organisation, such as requesting ahead of time if available copies are all on loan.
Many texts are available for free online via the university library holdings, through major online repositories such as archive.org, Jstor, and similar databases.
Some readings are digitised and provided via the Moodle virtual learning environment.
Any films or visual materials studied are usually accessible for free through Box of Broadcasts, or a screening is put on.
However, many students like to have their own copies of compulsory texts.
This can be advantageous in terms of notetaking and detailed engagement over an extended period.
Texts we teach are mostly available in mass-market paperback, and copies can often be obtained cheaply secondhand.
It may also be useful to allow a budget for printing materials (although submission is now almost entirely electronic), and to have a storage device for your work such as a USB stick (although networked storage is available via university computers).
Academic modules are taught through a combination of lectures, tutorials and independent study.
All your modules are assessed by coursework, including: essays; presentations; creative writing options; reading diaries; online writing activities, such as blogs and discussions.
There are no formal sit-down exams on modules offered by the English teaching team.
Our dedicated placement scheme offers the opportunity to:
Our study abroad schemes give you the opportunity to apply to study at foreign universities in North America and Europe.
Four option modules from:
What can you do with a BA (Hons) English degree?
This dynamic programme designed for lovers of reading and storytelling will enable you to delve into the world of English literature and embark on a journey of discovery and exploration.
Through a variety of learning activities and assignments, you’ll deepen your understanding of English literature and culture while developing critical thinking and communication skills that are highly valued in today’s world, Career opportunities include:
• Writer • Teacher • Publisher • Journalist • Arts Administrator
Throughout the course, you’ll explore a diverse range of literary genres, periods, and theoretical approaches, from Shakesperean drama to contemporary poetry and postcolonial literature.
Through seminars, lectures, and independent research projects, you’ll engage with texts in depth, analyse their meanings and contexts, and develop your own interpretations and critical perspectives.
Upon completion, you’ll emerge as a versatile and well-rounded graduate, equipped with a deep appreciation for the power of language and the complexities of human experience.
Whether you aspire to pursue further study.
Enter the workforce, or pursue a career in fields such as education, publishing, or media, our BA (Hons) in English will provide you with the knowledge, skills, and confidence to succeed in a variety of personal and professional endeavours.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-english-and-film-undergraduate-fulltime:
Explore literature in its most modern context alongside film theory and criticism in this Joint Honours degree.
The BA (Hons) in English and Film degree will deepen your interest, understanding and knowledge of important texts, genres and concerns in modern literature from across a wide and diverse area of cultural studies, including: popular culture, genre fiction and film, adaptation studies, TV studies, new media, creative writing, critical psychology, and socially-relevant modules examining cultural representations of crime, urbanism, ecology, terrorism, global conflict, and more.
You'll also gain a strong foundation in a range of global cinemas, including the theoretical and historical debates that have helped to shape our understanding of film.
This course will develop your critical and theoretical skills, and help prepare you for a career in a number of areas of the cultural and creative industries.
The BA (Hons) in English and Film is not a practical film-making course.
However, the University does offer plenty of other practical courses in this area, in both film and television.
Visit our media study area for further details.
We have a 94% student satisfaction rate for our English & Film course (National Student Survey, 2024)
QP33
Caitlin Wallace BA (Hons) English and Film student.
My studies in Scottish literature in particular grounded me in the knowledge I needed to understand events as they were unfolding across the country
Andrew Barr
BA (Hons) English & Film 2014
You'll explore genre, narrative, adaptation, film technology, documentary, experimental filmmaking and contemporary trends in film theory and criticism.
A lot of emphasis is placed on the diversity of cinematic practices, as well as the social, political, cultural, historical and philosophical contexts within which films are produced.
English is studied from the early nineteenth century to the present day, providing a truly modern and interdisciplinary approach to literature.
This will allow you to develop an appreciation of different genres and explore the value of literature in the modern world.
You'll have the opportunity to study film and literature side by side, across a range of modules and delve into debates around issues of genre, gender and practice.
A vibrant city with a great literary and cinematic heritage, Edinburgh offers a wonderful learning environment and plenty of relevant cultural events, such as the Edinburgh International Film Festival and International Book Festival.
Module choices in creative writing and screenwriting will allow you to apply your understanding of literature and film to your own creative work.
Some of your film modules are taught at the Screen Academy Scotland.
Our study abroad schemes give you the opportunity to apply to study at foreign universities, including:
Three option modules from:
What are the entry requirements for English and Film?
You may be given an Offer of entry if you meet our specified minimum entry requirements within our widening participation criteria, and outlined in our Contextual Admissions Policy.
For further information, see our entry requirements and admissions policies .

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/certificate-of-credit-english-as-a-foreign-language--8-month-programme-undergraduate-fulltime:
English for Academic Purposes (EAP) pre-sessional courses are available for prospective postgraduate students.
These courses improve your English language and academic study skills.
You can apply online for our year-long (September entry) or 8 month (January entry) programme.
We also offer 4, 6 and 12 week courses which you can find out more about in our English language section.
In addition to classes, you'll be given an opportunity to immerse yourself in Edinburgh and Scotland’s culture through visits to tourist attractions and historic sites.
We'll also provide you with practical help to settle into life in a new city.
Pre-sessional courses are designed to suit a range of abilities.
Full-time (available as a year-long programme )
8 months
2:14
Offer for a degree course at + IELTS 4.5 with no skill below 4.5
Students on the 8-month English language programme will receive two Confirmation of Acceptance of Studies (CAS) letters - one for the English language course and one for their degree programme (on the assumption of passing the Edinburgh Napier University language exam).
You will be expected to hold the academic entry requirements for your degree programme at the start of the 8-month English language programme.
You can apply online for the 8-month course.
We also offer 4, 6 and 12 week pre-sessional English language courses throughout the year, as well in-session English study support classes.
For further information on these programmes please visit our English language section or if you have any questions email EAP.Enquiries@napier.ac.uk or call 0131 455 4445.
What are the entry requirements for English as a Foreign Language?
IELTS 4.5, with no skill below 4.5.
The pre-sessional courses are for students who have applied to one of our programmes.
On success completion of the course you can progress on to your chosen course.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/certificate-of-credit-english-as-a-foreign-language--year-long-programme-undergraduate-fulltime:
You can apply online for our year-long (September entry) or 8-month (January entry) programme.
We also offer 4-, 6- and 12-week courses which you can find out more about in our English language section.
Full-time (available as an 8 month programme )
Offer for a degree course at + IELTS 4.0 with no skill below 4.0
Students on the year-long English language programme will receive two Confirmation of Acceptance of Studies (CAS) letters – one for the English language course and one for their degree programme (on the assumption of passing the Edinburgh Napier University language exam).
You will be expected to hold the academic entry requirements for your degree programme at the start of the year-long English language programme.
You can apply online for the year-long course.
We also offer 4, 6 and 12 week pre-sessional English language courses throughout the year as well in-session English study support classes.
IELTS 4.0, with no skill below 4.0.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ma-creative-writing-postgraduate-fulltime:
If you want to make a career in writing, this course is for you.
You already have talent and ideas, we'll add the expertise you need to approach your chosen market with confidence, originality and skill.
No ambitions are out of bounds: we love popular genre fiction and literary experiments equally.
We aim to ensure our graduates are equipped to succeed - and to change the culture they choose to enter.
We will add expertise to your talent and ideas, while you learn in the company of industry experts on this innovative, inspiring course for emerging writers.
Our unique combination of genres and specialisms encourages and enables you to professionalise your practice as a writer.
We put genres like science fiction, fantasy, crime, romance, historical, fairytales, folklore and horror at the heart of our learning journey.
Writing for young adult readers and graphic novels are just some of the options available to you as a student on our programme.
We take an innovative approach to the training and support of aspiring writers, driven by intellectual ambition and practical industry experience.
There are four strands to the programme:
Uniquely, the course offers a dynamic range of cross-disciplinary options.
Writing for graphic fiction, young adult audiences, screenwriting and interactive media are all available as specialisms, while our pioneering module in genre fiction covers crime, horror, fantasy and science fiction.
We host an exciting array of guest speakers every year, ranging from award-winning authors to high-profile industry experts.
Recent visiting speakers have included authors Victoria (V.E.) Schwab, Dhonielle Clayton and James Oswald, comics creators Emma Beeby and Will Morris, Nasty Women anthology editors Laura Jones and Heather McDaid from 404 Ink, agent Jenny Brown, and editor Simon Spanton.
Our approach to full-length narrative development trains you to deploy a range of unique and dynamic pre-writing techniques invented by our programme.
This energetic combination of conceptual development and critical self-reflection aims to transform you into a technically adept, purposeful writer ready to make your mark.
The MA is a professionalising course that emphasises the publishing industry as a business, and includes sessions on approaching agents, marketing yourself and your work, and understanding publishing contracts.
We also offer professional development strands in teaching and learning, community engagement, and publishing on digital platforms.
For students eager to continue working on their major project in a supportive academic environment, we have an articulation agreement with the low residency MFA in Popular Fiction at Seton Hill University in Pennsylvania.
This enables graduates of our programme to join the Seton Hill cohort in year two, attain a MFA qualification and complete a market-ready commercial novel.
This is a one year full-time course starting in September, taught over three trimesters.
The course is taught by a team of award-winning industry professionals: David Bishop , a successful crime writer and former editor; internationally best-selling science fiction and horror author Nicholas Binge; acclaimed folklorist and weird fiction author Elizabeth Dearnley; and best-selling historical fiction author Noelle Harrison.
You can read more about their established academic and professional careers by viewing our tutors page.
Tasks includes crafting original short stories; creating pre-writing materials for full-length narratives; critical self-reflection on your work; keeping a learning journal of progress through one-to-one mentoring; plus developing strategies and content for teaching, public engagement events, and digital self-publishing.
Our students have access to the Writers' Room, a private workspace with wi-fi, available evenings and weekends.
It houses an exclusive library of 2,000 hand-picked books, DVDs and graphic novels, and is the venue for reading groups and social events.
This is a practical module that aims to give you a chance to adapt.
It will examine the field of adaptation studies to see how issues like staying faithful to the original, or the different affordances that different media provide, impact upon the actual act of adapting one type of text into another e.g., novels into screenplays and vice versa; novels into interactive media experiences; the written word into the spoken word (novels into radio); the spoken word into audio-visual media and so on.
But this theory will be used to underpin creative practice, which is what this module is about.
The syllabus will typically include some of the following topics (or similar): • Trans/Interdisciplinary definitions of adaptation • Meanings of adaptation: translation, transfer, transformation, appropriation, assimilation, intervention • Adaptation as an intertextual, intercultural, inter-medial operation • Adaptation across media: literature, theatre, film, TV, comics, video games, interactive storytelling, fine arts • The underpinnings of the practice of adaptation • The practice of adaptation across media: Legal and ethical considerations
The purpose of this trimester is to examine the changing role of the author over the years, as well as the realities of authorship in the 21st century.
Throughout the trimester, you will develop your understanding of yourself as an author and of your place within the industry as a whole.
You will do this by undertaking original research within a specific area of the publishing industry, and by defining how you might disrupt or invigorate it.
You will begin by exploring the areas of professional practice that many authors pursue alongside their writing in order to build sustainable careers.
These include teaching creative writing, self-publishing, digital platforms, community engagement, and live events.
After selecting an area of professional practice to investigate further, you will decide upon a research question; carry out practical research; investigate relevant theory texts; and submit your findings in the form of a research essay.
You will then be required to present concept documents for use within your chosen professional practice areas, describing problems you have identified and proposing potential solutions or demonstrating best practice.
Overall, this will enable you to become a responsible, literary citizen as your progress through your career as an author and creative professional.
This module focuses on concepts, skills and techniques for the pre-writing development of a full-length narrative project.
Each session examines a particular element of pre-writing, building into a complete process you can use to hone and shape a potential novel, graphic novel, or screenplay or other narrative project.
The first few sessions interrogate the initial stages of your creative process, such as defining the purpose of your work, and examining ways to develop ideas into stories.
Next you will explore thematic architecture and linguistic development to enrich your world-building and create a purposeful network of themes and ideas underpinning your narrative.
The following weeks are devoted to characterisation and structure, helping you build unique characters and define the most appropriate choice of tone and narrative position(s) for your project.
Plot and synopsis writing sessions give you the tools to shape a compelling journey for your project and its characters while embracing the challenges of perfect pacing and elegant exposition.
Major Project is the culmination of all your learning on the MA.
Depending on your chosen specialism it’s an opportunity to begin your novel in earnest and plan its path to publication, or to produce a high quality showcase of work in another medium, which can be used to approach agents, publishers, producers or developers.
The module begins with a detailed induction session, to help you focus on the challenges ahead.
After which, you’ll embark on intensive individual work, supported by three one-to-one supervision sessions of one hour and 20 minutes.
A week before each session you’ll send up to 5,000 words of work-in-progress to your supervisor for feedback, problem-solving and discussion.
You can also use supervision sessions to discuss your reading, research, critical reflection and personal development planning.
Following Major Project marking, you’ll have a final one-to-one tutorial to discuss your Professional Development Plan, where the programme’s tutors will offer detailed advice on the next steps in your career.
Over the course of a series of seminars, workshops and tutorials you will develop a portfolio of creative work, including one polished draft of a 30' screenplay together with accompanying pitch and presentational documents.
Following the model of a professional script development process, you will deliver a range of written work - outlines, treatments and various drafts of the script - with formative feedback on work in progress from the module leader, an individual tutor and fellow students.
There is a focus on television drama and comedy  in this module looking at TV series and the growing demand for returnable, long-running shows.
While the module will study this fast-changing landscape, you are also encouraged to find your own voice and to write your own 'calling card script' which can serve as an entry point into the industry.
Over 12 weeks, you will develop a thirty-minute script from idea to a polished final draft.
Students are encouraged to read and feedback on each others work in weekly workshops.
Tutors will also give feedback with individual tutorials scheduled throughout the trimester.
The focus of this module is on the craft of screenwriting.
It aims to develop your technical skills and a critical awareness of the various possibilities and demands of the form.
The trimester ends with a chance for you to present your ideas to a panel of industry guests for feedback and advice.
This module introduces you to and enhances your understanding of writing for the genres and sub-genres of fantasy, crime, horror and science fiction.
It begins by investigating the core techniques and current trends in these areas.
You will augment writing practice skills developed in the first trimester by undertaking frequent writing challenges and honing your critical self-reflexivity, aided by formative masterclass feedback.
Addressing, challenging and subverting audience expectations is the focus for the final weeks, alongside writing for particular markets.
This module has an all fiction reading list from the cutting edge of current genre writing.
In this module, you will focus on the practical application of a range of professional writingtechniques, and on building the vital skills of pre-writing decision making, critical self-reflection and engaging with editorial feedback.
The module is a development journey,beginning with an overview of narrative positions and key terminology.
Next, you willexplore the foundational principles of various narrative positions, including condition ofnarration, device and register.
You will then begin to practise more complex techniques,such as subtext and counter narrative, the unreliable narrator and positioning an activereader.
Through writing challenges and masterclass discussions, you will learn how tomake fast, purposeful decisions about a story before writing, how to craft short pieces tobriefs and deadlines, and how to critically analyse and improve upon early drafts.
As wellas gaining a detailed understanding of the opportunities and demands of differentnarrative positions, you will develop the core professional practices you will need to makethe most of your Creative Development and Editorial Development module, succeed inyour Major Project, and advance the rest of your writing career.
This module introduces you to and enhances your understanding of writing for the medium of graphic fiction.
You will begin by developing core skills and techniques for creating graphic fiction narratives.
Frequent writing challenges will help hone your critical self-reflexivity, aided by formative masterclass feedback.
Visiting speakers will discuss their processes and career paths, illustrating the range of opportunities and individual approaches that flourish in this medium.
You will be encouraged to forge creative partnerships enhancing your collaborative skills.
Writing graphic fiction for particular markets and building challenging audience expectations is the focus during the final weeks of this module.
What are the entry requirements for Creative Writing?
The entry requirements for this course are an Honours Degree at a 2:2 or above in any discipline with relevant writing experience.
Once your application is received, you may be contacted by the Programme Leader with an invitation to submit a sample of writing: this is the second stage in selection.
Please do not send writing samples with your initial application, as a detailed brief and deadline will be provided.
The final stage in the selection process is an interview: for international applicants, this is conducted by telephone.
Can I get admission into Creative Writing based on my working experience in this sector?
The English Language requirements for this programme are IELTS (Academic) with an overall score of 6.5 with no individual component score of less than 6.0.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ma-creative-writing-postgraduate-parttime:
To ensure there is sufficient time to process your application, we encourage you to submit your application by 30 June.
Assessments focus on practical creative challenges and achieving professional levels of critical reflection, enabling students to become more self-sufficient as writers and collaborative practitioners.
This module builds upon the lessons learned in Creating Narrative, taking you on the next stage of the writer's journey.
The first few weeks tackle the rewriting process, exploring how to self-edit, when to stop writing and what lessons can be learned from each draft.
Next you will explore abridgement and adaptation, two crucial areas of creative writing where you'll be making decisions about other peoples' stories.
The module focus then moves back to your original work, examining the different paths to a commission - and the dead ends that can impede your progress.
Guest speakers from the publishing industry (including agents and editors) will tell you what they look for.
In the final weeks you'll learn about putting yourself and your work out there, coping with rejection and surviving publication.
This module delves into the nuts and bolts of creating narratives, with each session examining a particular element of the process.
The first few weeks delve into the initial stages of the creative process, such as how to generate ideas and develop them into stories, and using research to give your work authenticity and originality.
Next you will explore structure, plotting and planning - discovering the methods that work best for you as a writer.
The middle of this module is devoted to character, learning about the importance of narrative viewpoint and empathy.
Mastering theme and tone occupies the following sessions, as you engage with these powerful writing tools.
You will consider genre - what it means for you as a writer, and its importance for your intended audience.
The penultimate session considers dialogue, lies and narrators before the grand finale: assembling a trouble-shooting toolkit to help you overcome the temptations of procrastination and the tyranny of perfectionism.
Throughout the module you'll also be reading and discussing short, recent works by leading authors in different genres, exposing you to current trends in your chosen field.
This module allows students to undertake independent research into a specialised area of interest about the Publishing industry.
Students may choose an appropriate topic with guidance from the module leader or supervisor and all students are assigned individual supervisors.
During Trimester 2 and 3 there will be a series of taught seminars to prepare students for their independent study, covering research ethics and methods, literature reviews, framing and generating research questions, critical analysis, scholarly writing and presentation.
This 60 credit module is the culmination of the MSc Publishing programme and is an opportunity for students to evidence their in-depth knowledge of key themes, issues and principles related to Publishing.
The final assessment for this module is a 15,000 word dissertation which is submitted in Trimester 3.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-publishing-postgraduate-fulltime:
We provide the specialist training and experience you need to succeed in the fast-paced, vibrant world of publishing.
Our focus is vocational and will provide you with industry-specific and research skills demanded by employers, invaluable contacts that will open doors, and a placement that will provide you with crucial experience.
MSc Publishing works closely with the Professional Publishers Association (PPA) , and was recently awarded the prestigious Creative Skillset Tick .
Edinburgh Napier is the only University to have doubly-accredited postgraduate publishing provision.
Keara Donnachie MSc Publishing graduate
Our programme works with industry and will open doors for you.
Our team has strong relationships with thought leaders across industry, commerce and academia which helps to ensure you are at the forefront of the latest thinking, processes and technology.
The expansion of digital media has created a need for highly specialised skills in publishing.
This course will give you the specialist training and experience demanded by publishing employers.
You'l develop skills in critical thinking and problem solving, and will graduate with an excellent understanding of the industry in an international context.
You will become familiar with every aspect of the publishing process, meet industry professionals and attend prestigious events such as the London International Book Fair , the Edinburgh International Book Festival and Magfest .
You'll have further opportunities to meet with industry professionals and make valuable contacts at UNESCO Literary Salons, book launches, author readings and literary events.
We are also linked with the internationally renowned Scottish Centre for the Book based at Edinburgh Napier University.
Please visit our Publishing By Degrees site for more information regarding our current students.
This is a one year full-time course starting in September and is split up into three trimesters.
An 80 hour work placement module is offered on this course during trimester 2 as part of the Publishing Placement and Professional Development module.
Our Merchiston campus, situated in the heart of Edinburgh, is home to creative industries students along with engineering and computing.
Inside you’ll also find the 500-seat Jack Kilby Computing Centre (open 24 hours a day in Trimesters 1 and 2), the library and the Edinburgh Napier Students’ Association.
What are the entry requirements for Publishing?
The entry requirement for this course is a Bachelor (Honours) Degree at 2:1 or above in any discipline .
We may also consider lesser qualifications if you have sufficient relevant work experience within the industry.
Can I get admission into Publishing based on my working experience in this sector?
The English Language requirements for this programme are an IELTS (Academic) overall band score of 6.5 with no individual component below 6.5.
This comprehensive programme designed for aspiring publishers and media professionals will let you explore the art and business of publishing and immerse yourself in the world of books, magazines, and digital media.
Through a blend of theory, practice, and industry insights, you'll learn the skills and strategies needed to navigate the ever-changing landscape of publishing and media.
Throughout the course, you'll explore a wide range of topics, from editorial and production processes to marketing, distribution, and digital publishing.
Through hands-on projects, and collaborations with industry partners, you'll gain practical experience working in various sectors of the publishing industry and develop a deep understanding of its challenges and opportunities.
Upon completion, you'll emerge as a skilled and adaptable publishing professional, ready to pursue a career in publishing houses, literary agencies, digital media companies, or self-publishing platforms.
Whether you aspire to work as an editor, marketer, literary agent, or entrepreneur, our MSc in Publishing will provide you with the knowledge, skills, and connections to succeed in the fast-paced and competitive world of publishing.
As a Publisher, you will step into the world of literature and ideas where your passion for books and storytelling will shape the literary landscape and connect readers with transformative ideas and experiences.
In this role, you'll serve as a curator, advocate, and entrepreneur, identifying and nurturing talent and bringing books to market that captivate and inspire readers.
Your responsibilities will span from acquiring manuscripts and working with authors to editing, designing, and marketing books to audiences.
Picture yourself scouting for emerging voices and diverse perspectives, shaping manuscripts into polished works of art, and collaborating with designers, marketers, and distributors to bring books to readers around the world.
You'll leverage your expertise in the publishing industry and your passion for literature to champion books that entertain, educate, and provoke thought.
Whether you're publishing fiction, non-fiction, or poetry, your focus will be on creating a diverse and dynamic list that reflects the richness and complexity of the human experience.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ma-writing-popular-fiction-postgraduate-fulltime:
Having satisfactorily completed all Seton Hill requirements, you will graduate with a complete novel and a Master of Fine Arts in Writing Popular Fiction.
What are the entry requirements for Writing Popular Fiction?
The English Language requirements for this programme are IELTS (Academic) with an overall score of 7.0 with no individual component score of less than 7.0.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/our-location/our-campuses/merchiston:
This is enhanced by facilities from cutting-edge cyber security labs to TV and film studios.
In addition, Merchiston boasts a business incubator, two cafes and a 500-seat computing centre, with both Mac and PC hardware, that is open round-the-clock in Trimesters 1 and 2.
Merchiston is also home to the Edinburgh Napier Students' Association .
We also have rehearsal and performance spaces in a converted church just around the corner in nearby Morningside.
10 Colinton Road Edinburgh EH10 5DT
0131 455 2929
reception@napier.ac.uk
Our Merchiston campus is well-served by public transport to and from the centre of the city.
In addition, there are numerous cycle paths in the area and bike storage facilities on site.
A Transport for Edinburgh app is available free for smartphones and offers live bus information and electronic ticketing.
Timetables and further information on rail services can be found through National Rail Enquires .
For a detailed access guide to our Merchiston campus, please visit here .
For a detailed guide to accessing our dedicated music department and building within Merchiston itself, please visit here .

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/english-creative-writing-and-publishing/creative-writing/ashley-stern-case-study:
Studying overseas can open many a door for a student.
It allows you to see parts of the world you may have never seen otherwise.
You can find new interests, make lifelong friends and learn new cultures.
When Ashley Stern travelled to Edinburgh in mid-2014, little did she know the impact her time in the city would have on her and her higher education trajectory.
Ashley had left home in Grafton, Wisconsin to commence an MA in Creative Writing at Edinburgh Napier, with the aspiring writer focused on getting the most out of her year abroad.
She had read about the University through Across the Pond – a service in the States that helps individuals achieve their ambitions of studying in Britain.
However, it wasn’t until she undertook the interview process for the course that she realised that Edinburgh Napier was definitely the one for her.
Ashley said: “I found Edinburgh Napier through Across the Pond.
The interview process is what convinced me that the programme was the right one.
I was challenged and was given a real look at differences this programme had that made it so unique and such a perfect fit for me.
All the aspects I discovered that I loved I couldn’t find in other creative writing programmes.
I was drawn to the elective options, the career focus, and the utilisation of literary theory throughout the course.”
Ashley added: “I loved creative non-fiction, just because it was a genre I’d never really written in before and I found that I really enjoyed it.
The two modules that I enjoyed most and were most beneficial to me as a student and writer were Writer’s Toolkit and Innovation and Authorship.
Both of these pushed me to think about story in a new and more purposeful way.
I am not only a better reader and writer because of this module, but I am working on revising what I started in these classes as my thesis project at Seton Hill University.
This is the project I hope to submit to agents in the coming year.”
After finishing her year at Edinburgh Napier, Ashley benefitted from a unique agreement the University has with Seton Hill University in Pennsylvania that allows an MA graduate to enter the second year of its MFA in popular fiction, giving them the chance to continue their writing education alongside finishing the final project novel they started in Scotland.
It was a path that Ashley didn’t realise she could take prior to studying in Scotland.
She said: “I hadn’t even considered matriculating to Seton Hill before I headed to Edinburgh Napier.
I’m so glad I did though and I would recommend others to follow this route.
“My final project is a young adult fantasy novel.
The premise is basically an upside-down Narnia.
My protagonist, Nikita, was once able to go between worlds but has since been trapped.
My project is the story of her finding a home and herself when there is no going back.
“I started this in Scotland and right now I’m focusing on rewriting and revising for Seton Hill.
I want to be able to start submitting to agents by graduation in June.
“Edinburgh will always be close to me.
It was a fantastic place and I have wanted to go back since I left!
It was an amazing city to live and study in for my year and I cannot wait to visit again someday soon.”

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/english-creative-writing-and-publishing/creative-writing:
Full of creative writing talent and ideas?
Let us add the expertise.
Unique is a great way to describe the postgraduate creative writing programme at Edinburgh Napier University in Scotland.
For a start, we put genre fiction front and centre in our course.
If you love science fiction, fantasy, crime or horror, most MFAs and MAs don't want to know - but we embrace great genre writing and people who want to write it.
Another unique focus at Edinburgh Napier is comics and graphic novels , which most other programmes ignore.
In fact, we love this medium so much we devote an entire module about it, Writing Graphic Fiction.
[Good news: no talent for drawing required!] We also specialise in Young Adult fiction , with acclaimed YA author Laura Lam leading a new module on this.
Edinburgh Napier's creative writing MA does not offer a poetry option.
We repeat, poetry is not a requirement .
There are plenty of other great courses with brilliant poets on the faculty - if you want to study poetry, seek them out.
We have had prize-winning poets as students on our programme, but we don't teach or critique poetry.
There are also no peer review workshops in Creative Writing MA classes at Edinburgh Napier.
We repeat, no peer review workshops.
This boggles the mind of some people, as such workshops are the dominant teaching method for creative writing pretty much everywhere else.
But we don't have them in our classes.
Not one!
Instead, we set frequent writing assignments and expect you to bring the results to class.
You're encouraged to critically self-reflect on your work [with prompts from us], and to share that thinking.
You get professional editorial feedback on your writing and your self-reflection skills, delivered masterclass-style in class.
And you get six hours of one-to-one mentoring .
Through her work, Jenny Bloomfield has always strived to make a difference.
Now she's looking to do it through an alternative medium - creative writing.
As a graduate of the MA in Creative Writing at Edinburgh Napier University, you can now earn your MFA – and finish the book you started at Edinburgh Napier – through the Writing Popular Fiction programme at Seton Hill.
Beginning in January 2017, alumni from Edinburgh Napier University can enroll in the Writing Popular Fiction programme at Seton Hill and earn an MFA by taking 34 credits (instead of the usual 54) and attending four residencies (instead of six).
2015 graduate Ashley Stern is now working towards her MFA in popular fiction at Seton Hill University in Pennsylvania.
We catch-up with her as she looks back on her time in Edinburgh.
Want an insight into the course and its going-ons?
Visit the MA Creative Writing blog today.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/our-schools/school-of-arts-and-creative-industries/about-our-school/publishing:
For two years in a row the Masters students have encouraged their peers across the University to take part in the Napier Big Read, which sees hundreds of free copies of a chosen book distributed across campuses to get staff and students alike discussing the same book, sharing insight and bringing people together.
It started in 2016 with Matt Haig’s novel The Humans.
The following year, Edinburgh Napier students took the event to the next level by choosing Detective McLevy’s Casebook – a book they published themselves!
Hundreds of free copies of Detective McLevy’s Casebook were distributed around the University today.
The collection of short stories is based on true crimes investigated by Detective McLevy, who is credited as being the real-life inspiration for Arthur Conan Doyle’s Sherlock Holmes.
Avril Gray, programme leader of MSc Publishing, said: “I’ve been working at Edinburgh Napier University for some time and what continually strikes me is how this University really celebrates the work and achievements of our students.
“Other students are getting the chance to read it, to discuss it, and to use it to shout about the great work they are doing.
I’ve loved making new connections with other staff and students, and finding out about what students on other programmes are achieving.”
Sarah Marks, MSc Publishing student and Napier Big Read communications manager, said: “The Napier Big Read is an incredibly rewarding project for us to be involved with.
It offers us a chance to put our learning into practice and explore different roles in the industry.
“The whole team is really excited to be able to finally share this great book with students and staff.
We hope Detective McLevy's Casebook gets people talking and helps to foster a sense of community across the university.”
We are truly amazed by the number of donations from students and staff.
Their generosity shows how giving unites us all, and there's something very special about giving a book.
Avril Gray
Programme Leader, MSc Publishing
After the collection, streetreads founder Rachel Cowan visited the Merchiston campus to pick up some of the books and was delighted by the effort.
"This is a wonderful amount and we are incredibly grateful for the donation," she said.
"All of the students who kindly helped organise this - and of course, Avril Gray - are to be commended for their enthusiasm and generosity.
Our homeless readers will benefit a huge amount from this project."
Rachel went on to explain how important the project is and said: “It began when a homeless girl who I was supporting a bit told me that books sometimes are more precious than food.
It astonished me.
I asked her to introduce me to some of the homeless guys and discovered that lots of them were readers.
“I’m told and I’ve seen with my own eyes that it’s a terribly important thing.
A book is solace for the soul, it’s an escape from the terrible life homeless people are leading.
It has all sorts of impact, even with literacy – it helps people who are not perhaps great readers if we can give them something that will help them.”
Avril Gray said: "We are truly amazed by the number of donations from students and staff.
When you read a book, whether you enjoy it or not, you absorb it, it helps to shape your ideas and perhaps provides insight and even empathy with others.”

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/english-creative-writing-and-publishing/creative-writing/jenny-bloomfield-case-study:
Making a difference in life has always motivated Jenny Bloomfield.
Studying part-time has been good too.
You get such insights not only into writing but also into how to be a writer.
And you get to keep paying the mortgage while you do it!
Jenny Bloomfield
Part-time MA Creative Writing student
Jenny added: “I am lucky in that my week splits up very nicely: I work Mondays, Tuesdays and Wednesday for SCVO; attend Edinburgh Napier on Thursdays; and then study at home on Fridays and Sundays.
Saturdays are for lie-ins, hangovers and doing the laundry or food shop!
“I work as part of a team so if I need to take a few extra days’ leave to meet a course deadline, there is usually the flexibility to do that.
And because I cut my hours to three days a week, I generally have plenty of time to study.”
She said: “I’d love to get published and to pursue a writing career to run alongside my current one in the voluntary sector, as I really enjoy doing both.
“The course has been great so far.
My favourite bit has been meeting real-life graphic fiction writers who are making a living doing this: asking them questions and seeing how they make it work has been really instructive.
“Studying part-time has been good too.
You get such insights not only into writing but also into how to be a writer, i.e., how to get on in the industry.
“If you’re thinking of doing the course, I would say to just go for it.
There never is the ‘perfect’ time, so why not now?”

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/our-schools/school-of-arts-and-creative-industries/about-our-school/andrew-barr:
He graduated from Edinburgh Napier in July 2014, mere months before the historic event of the Scottish Independence Referendum.
His interest in the events as they unfolded inspired him to write a book about the experience, which was picked up by a publisher and released two years later.
Looking back at his journey from student to published author, Andrew reflects how his undergraduate studies helped propel him to achieve his goal.
“Writing has always been my passion and studying at Edinburgh Napier gave me the drive and understanding to pursue it after graduation,” he said.
“The English & Film course first appealed to me because of the diversity of subjects involved.
I was particularly interested in the emphasis on broader cultural studies as a way of grounding literature in its political and social contexts.
“The course is also quite flexible and gives you the freedom to pursue your own interests, especially in the final two years.
There are some really fascinating module options.
I particularly enjoyed Post-colonial Fiction, the Twentieth-Century Scottish Novel and Cities Real & Imagined.”
My time at Edinburgh Napier helped nurture a broad cultural understanding which I believe can be applied to many avenues and vocations, and I’d certainly recommend the course to prospective students.”
English & Film graduate
“It was a really exciting time for young people to get involved with the world around them and I think my studies at the University contributed to my curiosity for new ideas, my critical faculties and my understanding of current affairs in the cultural context”, he said.
“My studies in Scottish literature in particular grounded me in the knowledge I needed to understand events as they were unfolding across the country and I completed my studies by writing a dissertation on the poetry and politics of Hugh MacDiarmid.
I also enjoyed the literature we studied from all corners of the globe, charting many different struggles and experiences through theory, novels and poetry.”
Andrew’s book, ‘Summer of Independence: Stories from a Nation in the Making’ was published in 2016 and he was pleased to discover he still had the support of Edinburgh Napier after graduation.
“I was delighted when the book featured amongst The Scottish Review of Books’ picks of the year,” he said.
“It was great to see one of my lecturers turn up to the book launch even though it had been two years since I’d left the university.
I think that’s a good example of the kind of support and encouragement you can find at Edinburgh Napier.”
Now, Andrew is focusing on new projects and believes that other students can follow in his footsteps with a degree in English.
“I’m currently working on a new book which I hope to see published in the coming years,” he said.
“My time at Edinburgh Napier helped nurture a broad cultural understanding which I believe can be applied to many avenues and vocations, and I’d certainly recommend the course to prospective students.”

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ma-creative-documentary-filmmaking-postgraduate-distance-learning-full-time:
This Masters in Creative Documentary Filmmaking offers a unique online learning experience whilst giving you the chance to connect both virtually and in-person through a blend of teaching and industry networking activities.
MA Creative Documentary Filmmaking at Edinburgh Napier University will equip you with theoretical insight, practical tools and professional support to develop your documentary film practice and to build networks with the international documentary film industry.
You will be encouraged to find your unique authorial voice and to make politically and aesthetically challenging and creative documentary films that speak to an international audience.
You will learn about diverse documentary approaches and practices, and will have to consider aesthetic, ethical and environmental challenges.
We have a broad range of acclaimed documentary film practitioners across our well-established Film, TV, and Journalism programmes who will support you throughout your studies.
Edinburgh Napier is 2 nd in the UK in Film Production and Photography (Guardian University Guide 2024) and number 1 modern university in the UK Drama, Dance & Cinematics (Complete University Guide 2024).
Images (right and below): Film stills from OJ TATO, 2024 - Winner: Royal Television Society award for Best Scottish Student Undergraduate Factual Film.
Shortlisted for the same national award.
Distance learning Full-time (available as Part-time )
This programme aims to enable you to:
What are the entry requirements for Creative Documentary Filmmaking?
We may also consider lower qualifications if applicants have sufficient relevant work experience within a relevant industry.
Applicants are required to submit a portfolio alongside their application.
You can find our portfolio guidance below.
Portfolio Guidance
On your application form, please include links to your portfolio, which should be no longer than 15 minutes in length or equivalent .
You should include a written description of your role on each project included on your portfolio.
We also welcome a 500 word proposal outlining the project that you might want to develop on the programme.
However, this is not required at the time of application.
Graduates of the MA Creative Documentary Filmmaking will have the opportunity to work professionally as creative documentary film directors or creative documentary director/producers.
They will be equipped to initiate and/or develop careers in documentary film production.
Additionally, there are deep historical links between documentary film production and research degrees and teaching in higher education.
This programme prepares graduates for both pathways.
Graduates might choose to go on to PhD study and become involved in teaching in higher education internationally.
Employability is a key element of the programme.
This is sustained by assessments in 'Documentary Practice' and 'Documentary Development' that encourage you to create links and networks with your local film industry.
In 'Documentary Development', you will be taught how to professionally communicate your creative ideas through written treatments, pitch presentations, and film teasers.
The optional in-person (or online) meetings at international documentary film festivals, across three junctures during the programme, create unique liaising and networking opportunities for you, enabling you to meet, get acquainted with, and pitch ideas to industry professionals, funders, distributors, and commissioning editors.
The skills developed through a unique self-designed assessment in 'Documentary Output', which could include an art installation, or a website, or a marketing report, could offer you transferable skills that might lead to opportunities beyond the film industry.
You will also acquire transferable research, presentation and writing skills in 'Narrative Voices and Perspectives' and 'Research in Film Practice', through assessments that include an essay, presentations, and writing exercises.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ma-creative-documentary-filmmaking-postgraduate-distance-learning:
Distance learning (available as Full-time )
The programme offers online modules that support you to extensively research, develop and produce a high-quality creative documentary film alongside a portfolio of short film exercises.
Learning activities will include a combination of synchronous and asynchronous lectures, interactive group webinars, practical synchronous workshops, and individualised feedback tutorials from filmmakers and industry professionals.
There will be online learning resources and recorded technical demonstrations to support and develop skills in directing, producing, interviewing, camera operation, sound-recording, editing and sound design.
You will be encouraged to establish contacts with local film organisations and networks to support the production of your films.
This will allow for developing a sustainable film practice within your own environment.
You will have the optional opportunity to meet in-person with your fellow-students and your tutors at three junctures during the programme, to exchange ideas, develop contacts and a community, and to receive hands-on one-on-one support.
These in-person meetings will take place at international documentary film festivals, in Germany, France and the UK, where you have the unique opportunity to build networks with filmmakers, producers, commissioning editors and other industry professionals.
You will also have access to industry events and documentary film screenings at each festival.
The meetings will take place at the research/development phase (autumn), the pre-production/production phase (spring), and the post-shoot/pre-edit phase (early summer).
If you are unable to attend one or more of these meetings, we will provide suggestions for alternative online festivals that you could attend instead.
In this case, you will be offered one-on-one online contact time with your tutors to receive support and feedback equitable to those students attending festivals in-person.
You will be assessed on a combination of practical work, written work, and presentations.
The practical work will comprise assessable short creative filmmaking exercises and a final project film developed over 12 months (if you are a full-time student).
This will be accompanied by evidence of your research and the development of your ideas.
You will professionally present your film ideas in an assessable pitch package aimed for funders and commissioning editors.
You will be assessed on reports to evidence your engagement with the film industry.
You will demonstrate your critical engagement with documentary approaches, histories, theories and key philosophical debates, through assessable presentations and/or written essays.
You will also be assessed on outputs that explore the impact of your practice.
On your application form, please include links to your portfolio, which should be no longer than 15 minutes in length.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-film-undergraduate-fulltime:
Study the art and craft of cinema and gain the practical and creative skills that will prepare you for a contemporary filmmaking career.
You will be taught to a high technical standard through the craft of script writing, producing, directing, documentary film-making, production design, cinematography, editing, sound design and other roles that are instrumental to industrial and independent film-making practices.
The course provides the opportunity to study at a partner university overseas, or complete a work placement in industry in your third year.
Throughout your studies, you will strive towards the goal of being an intelligent, creative and contemporary film-maker.
By identifying your strengths and perfecting your craft within established film-making roles, you will increasingly define your own area of study and develop an individual creative practice, so that by graduation you will be capable of producing creative and original works of the highest quality.
P303
Anith Ahmad Film student
Dan Bingham on his placement with Barnardo's and HMP Edinburgh
Edinburgh Napier's Acting and Film alumni were amongst the winners of the 2021 BAFTA Scotland Awards.
BA (Hons) Film is  a full-time programme and takes place at the Merchiston Campus, Craiglockhart Campus and at our purpose-built post-production facilities at Merchiston Avenue.
We offer fully equipped, specialist film facilities including high-end digital cinema cameras, professional film lighting, Avid Media Composer edit suites, Pro Tools, a professional dubbing theatre and a grading suite.
Alongside the more formal teaching content, there is a significant  element of self-directed study and research, both individually and via group work.
Through independent enquiry, students are encouraged to develop and  realise project ideas towards briefs that are designed to engage with relevant  social, cultural and contextual concerns.
Graduates of the BA Film programme are able to engage and work in the following ways:
At the heart of  this programme is the aim of equipping students with (1) the skills that are  necessary to be employable in an industry that is largely freelance in nature and (2) the ability to go on to further postgraduate study.
Therefore, alongside practical film-making skills, you will develop the ability to communicate your ideas effectively; be a purposeful contributor to  collaborative practices; be a capable problem solver and be able to work in a  self-motivated and responsible way.
These are the essential, transferable professional skills that are required for a successful career in the creative  industries.
BA (Hons) Film is a popular programme, attracting a large amount of  applicants.
Short listed applicants will be invited to submit a portfolio of  relevant work and attend an individual face-to-face interview with a member of  the programme team.
Telephone interviews are also available for overseas  applicants.
You will be given set exercises for your portfolio and we will be  looking for evidence of your understanding of, and engagement with, film.
We will  be looking for your visual literacy, interpretative skills and critical  evaluation.
While consideration will be given to technical knowledge, a high  level of technical competence is not expected at this stage, although your  potential for future development will be assessed.
Please note that you will be  sent more specific and detailed requirements when a portfolio is requested.
If  invited to interview, you will be able to bring other examples of your work and  you should include material which you feel best demonstrates your interest in  and passion for film-making.
The interview is an opportunity for you to present  your work, outline the ideas behind your work, and tell us about what  influences and inspires you.
You will learn by a variety of teaching methods including lectures, seminars, workshops, independent study and research.
Delivery of practical film-making skills is undertaken within an industry focus, and by academics and visiting lecturers who engage in relevant professional practices.
Assessment is continuous throughout the year and is predominantly based upon submission of creative practical work, documentation of research and critical reflection, essay assignments, and oral presentations.
You will undertake a period of work-related learning during Year 3, when you will start the process of preparation for your career after graduation.
You will have the opportunity to gain industry experience by working on live briefs, on film sets, placements within production companies and television broadcasting studios, or working with charity sector clients.
You'll have the opportunity to spend one trimester or a full year abroad in Year 3.
Studying abroad provides a unique opportunity to develop your studies in film while embarking on a rich cultural exchange.
BA (Hons) Film Students have undertaken exchanges at Deakin University (Melbourne, Australia), Queensland University of Technology (Australia), Ryerson University (Toronto, Canada), San Diego State University (California, USA), San Jose State University (California, USA), Brooklyn College, City University of New York (USA), Drexel University (Philadelphia, USA), Charles University (Prague, Czech Republic) and Stuttgart Media University (Germany).
Students have also been involved in unique cultural exchange film-making projects with Shanghai Normal University and Beijing Central Academy of Fine Arts.
We work closely with our industry partners to offer projects, short-term work placements and work experience opportunities to our BA Film students throughout their degree.
What are the entry requirements for Film?
As part of the selection process suitably qualified applicants will normally be invited to submit a portfolio/attend an interview.
You can find more information about both here .
Please Note - this course is not available for advanced entry.
Standard Entry Requirement: ABBB including English or other literary subject*.
*Literary subjects accepted: Modern Studies, History, Psychology, RMPS, Theology, Media Studies, Philosophy, Politics, Sociology, Geography, Latin, Classics, A level Government and Politics, A level Classical Civilisation, A level Drama.
The English Language requirements for this programme are IELTS (Academic) with 6.5 overall and no element below 6.0.
For guidance on the acceptability of other English Language tests please contact ugadmissions@napier.ac.uk
The programme prepares students for a wide range of possible careers in the creative industries sector.
Many of our graduates enter the traditional areas of professional film and television production as freelancers in fields such as camera department, sound recording and design, editing, art department, directing, production and documentary film-making.
When you complete the course, you will leave with an in-depth grounding in the technical processes, creative skills and production practices necessary for your career, including opportunities to study abroad and work-related learning.
Where your degree could lead:

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-journalism-undergraduate-fulltime:
Our course provides you with a practical and critical understanding of the changing face of journalism and the legal, political and economic aspects of the profession.
Our emphasis on employability means that you’ll be taught by professional journalists about everyday life in the industry.
And we’ll introduce you to ways of gaining first-hand experiences in journalism – including work placements through our links with various news organisations as well as freelance opportunities.
P500
Lewis Robertson Runner, STV
Student radio takes to the airwaves for special shows.
I believe Edinburgh Napier offers an exceptional education combined with multiple opportunities to progress personally and professionally.
George Ward
STV2 presenter, BA (Hons) Journalism, 2014
Our curriculum is developed to reflect the latest industry trends.
The course builds insight into the media industry, developing a sophisticated skillset that will aid employability.
Students develop professional experience first hand – encompassing newsgathering across digital platforms, writing, radio and TV package creation (including the technical operation of equipment and editing software), and digital know-how (including basic coding, website design and app building).
You’ll learn by a variety of teaching methods including lectures, tutorials, specialist workshops, practical work in our studios and independent study.
As part of your programme of study, you’ll experience a variety of assessments, though the vast majority fall into two categories:
You’ll have the opportunity to study a broad range of disciplines within journalism, specialising in your chosen area in Years 2 and 3.
We have excellent links with universities worldwide and you'll have the opportunity to study in Canada, Denmark, the Netherlands, Spain or the USA.
What are the entry requirements for Journalism?
Literary subjects accepted
The English Language requirements for this programme are IELTS (Academic) with 6.5 overall with no element below 6.0.
Our  graduates have an impressive track record of gaining employment in the news  media.
This course can lead to a number of careers in the following areas:
Recent  graduates have gained full-time work in these fields as well as with employers  such as the BBC, STV, BT Sport and Glasgow 2014.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-marketing-with-digital-media-undergraduate-fulltime:
Marketing with Digital Media blends together theory and digital marketing practice.
You'll gain an excellent understanding of both marketing principles and digital media skills including specialist areas such as user experience and digital storytelling, which are taught by our colleagues in The School of Computing.
Our course keeps things contemporary by giving you access to people who currently work in the industry, but also backing this up with the theory that will help you to thrive.
With work placements and the option to study abroad you'll be well networked and work-ready when you graduate!
N5P3
This Joint Honours degree will equip you with the business, creative and technical skills you need for a career in the exciting, diverse sector of digital media and marketing.
You'll gain a comprehensive understanding of marketing theory as well as in-depth knowledge and practical skills in digital media and technologies.
Marketing demands clear thinking and innovation.
You'll develop these attributes as well as sound business, communication and problem solving skills.
Flexible module choices, together with your dissertation topic, allow you to study the areas which interest you most.
You’ll have the opportunity to study abroad for at least six months preparing you for an international marketing career.
Programme Leader - Dr Jamie Thompson Deputy Programme Leader - Dr Jackie Cameron
Nothing accelerates learning like getting your hands on real live briefs in a workplace setting.
We give you the opportunity to undertake a  24 week work placement during trimester 2 of your third year.
You can also study abroad through Erasmus and ISEP programmes.
What are the entry requirements for Marketing with Digital Media?
Marketing is an ever-evolving landscape, one that has changed rapidly with the growth of digital technology.
Our degree in Marketing with Digital Media will equip you with the skills to deploy marketing techniques in a digital landscape.
The programme is accredited by the Institute of Data & Marketing and The Chartered Institute of Marketing, further recognising the strength of this programme.
This Joint Honours degree will equip you with the business, creative, and technical skills you need for a career in the exciting and diverse sector of digital media and marketing.
This programme offers a cross-disciplinary approach through modules such as Web Development and Digital Storytelling which are taught by colleagues in The School of Computing and modules such as AI Marketing and Social Media Marketing which are taught by colleagues in The Business School.
This flexible approach means a higher standard of specialism on each module throughout the programme.
Furthermore, there is the opportunity to undertake work placements to develop industry skills and relationships, which are supported by our placements team and study abroad opportunities supported by our global mobility team.
These opportunities mean you will be well connected and experienced from the moment you graduate.
Optional module choices available throughout your degree also allow you to study the areas that interest you most.
With a career in digital marketing, you can create online campaigns, manage social media, analyse data, optimise websites, and drive brand growth for businesses from small start-ups through to international organisations.
Through a digital media degree at Edinburgh Napier, you will be particularly well equipped with not only the creative marketing skills and knowledge but also the computer skills to create websites and content that reaches your audience.
This combination of skills is increasingly sought by employers.
A Digital Marketing Consultant is a professional that helps businesses optimise their digital marketing efforts to achieve certain goals.
They typically focus on specific segments of a marketing strategy, offering their expertise on what tactics to employ to achieve each target.
Their main focus is to produce actionable recommendations on how to improve different aspects of a company’s marketing such as increasing brand awareness or improving online sales.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-mass-communications-undergraduate-fulltime:
Edinburgh Napier University has more than 20 years' experience in teaching professional communication.
Prepare for employment or postgraduate study in disciplines such as mass communications, advertising, public relations, marketing, journalism, media and digital communication, with this broad communications degree professionally recognised by the Public Relations and Communications Association (PRCA).
Whether you choose to start in year one or join via direct entry from college into the second or third year, the Mass Communications degree will give you the opportunity to explore a variety of career options and find the best fit for you.
We are a the #1 UK modern university for Communication and Media studies - The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024.
W121
Our BA (Hons) Mass Communications graduate Carly Pryde shares her experience of studying the course.
Our Mass Communications programme offers two distinct career degree routes.
The first route is pure Mass Communications, and the second is Advertising and Public Relations .
this structure allows you to develop the understanding and principles and then go on to specialise in a specific field.
The two degrees in this suite of programmes share the same structure in the first two years.
In the third year you will choose one of the two degree strands.
This structure allows you to develop the understanding and principles and then go on to specialise in a specific field.
Upon completion you will be awarded with the named degree of the strand you completed.
The course also provides students with the knowledge & skills for postgraduate study in related areas.
The programme will:
Students will participate in a variety of learning and teaching methods, including lectures, tutorials, team work, class discussions, one-to-one supervision, independent study, practical projects, and workshops.
Assessments are designed to reflect the academic and/or professional focus of a module.
Students will write essays, develop research portfolios, write learning logs, undertake individual and team presentations, write exams, and develop research projects to set briefs and established professional standards.
This is enhanced by excellent facilities including newsroom, TV, radio, design and photography studios and soundproofed music studios.
There are also Mac Labs for creative design work.
Inside you’ll also find the 500-seat Jack Kilby Computing Centre and library, open 24 hours a day in Trimesters 1 and 2, student support services and Edinburgh Napier Students’ Association.
In addition to core modules studied each year, the programmes are option rich, this allows you to choose from a pool of modules which reflect your personal interests and career goals.
If you might be considering switching across to the Mass Communications or Advertising & PR degree routes after successful completion of the first 2 years, please see the degree listings for these programmes for more specific information.
What are the entry requirements for Mass Communications?
BTEC (QCF) Extended Diploma Level
3
International Baccalaureate
Diploma
Grade Pass
This dynamic course will let you enter the fascinating world of mass media and explore the role of communication in shaping society, culture, and politics.
Through a blend of theory, practice, and critical inquiry, you'll learn to analyze media texts, understand media industries, and navigate the complex relationship between media and society.
You’ll graduate with the relevant skills to enter the main communication industries, including:
Throughout the course, you'll explore a wide range of topics, from media theory and research methods to media law and ethics.
Through hands-on projects, and collaborations with media organizations, you'll gain practical experience producing content, analyzing media trends, and engaging with audiences across a variety of platforms.
Upon completion, you'll emerge as a thoughtful and informed communicator, equipped to pursue a variety of careers in media, journalism, public relations, or related fields.
Whether you aspire to work as a journalist, media producer, public relations specialist, or media researcher, our BA (Hons) in Mass Communications will provide you with the knowledge, skills, and critical perspective to succeed in the rapidly evolving world of mass media.
As a Media and Communications Officer, you will serve as the voice and storyteller for organizations and brands where your strategic thinking and storytelling prowess will shape narratives and foster connections with key stakeholders.
In this role, you'll serve as a liaison between organizations and the public, crafting content and messages, managing media relations, and shaping public perception.
Your responsibilities will span from developing communication strategies and messaging frameworks to executing tactics such as press releases, media pitches, and digital media content.
You will find yourself collaborating with executives and subject matter experts to craft narratives that resonate with target audiences and advance organizational goals.
Your expertise in strategic communications and media relations will help you to protect and enhance the reputation of organizations and brands.
Whether you're managing media inquiries, coordinating events, or producing digital communications, your focus will be on building trust, credibility, and goodwill with stakeholders.
Your passion for storytelling and your ability to communicate effectively across various channels and platforms will set you apart as a trusted advisor and advocate for organizations and brands.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-mass-communications-advertising-and-public-relations-undergraduate-fulltime:
Know you’re interested in Communications, but not a 100% sure what career?
Recognised by the Chartered Institute of Public Relations (CIPR) and the Public Relations and Communications Association (PRCA), this professionally focused course will prepare you for employment or postgraduate study in a range of disciplines such as advertising, public relations, branding, marketing, corporate communications, mass communications, media and digital communications.
The course provides the opportunity to study at a partner university overseas, or complete a work placement in industry.
Whether you choose to start in year one or join via direct entry from college into the second or third year, the Mass Communications, Advertising & Public Relations degree will give you the opportunity to explore a variety of career options and find the best fit for you.
Choose choice, choose Edinburgh Napier.
W123
Learn from our graduate Carmen Maria Mooney about how SACI placement has opened many doors for her in her professional career.
Our BA (Hons) Mass Communications, Advertising and Public Relations graduate Maddie Clayton shares her story
The first route is is Advertising and Public Relations and the second is the pure Mass Communications course .
Year three of the Mass Communications, Advertising & Public Relations degree is also delivered at our partner institution, Hong Kong University Space.
It is open to students on a full-time or part-time basis.
After successful completion of year three, students can exit with a BA Mass Communications, Advertising and Public Relations qualification, or progress to fourth year study based at Edinburgh Napier University for the award of BA (Hons) Mass Communications, Advertising and Public Relations.
Students will write essays, develop research portfolios, undertake individual and team presentations, develop research projects along with creating advertising, PR and branding strategies and creative solutions to set briefs and established professional standards,.
All Year 4 modules are core and reflect the professional and academic focus for accreditation by the Chartered Institute of Public Relations and the Public Relations and Communications Association.
If your first language isn't English, you'll
normally need to undertake an approved English language test.
The English
Language requirements for this programme are IELTS (Academic) with 6.0 overall
and no element below 5.5.
For guidance on the acceptability of other
English Language tests please contact ugadmissions@napier.ac.uk .
This may not apply if you have completed all your
school qualifications in English.
The University offers a 10% discount on MSc Postgraduate Taught Masters programmes to its alumni.
The discount applies to all full-time, part-time and online programmes.
This programme will help you to step into the dynamic world of strategic communication and explore the interconnected fields of mass communications, advertising, and public relations.
Through a blend of theory, practice, and hands-on projects, you'll learn to craft compelling messages, engage diverse audiences, and build relationships with stakeholders to achieve organizational goals.
Throughout the course, you'll explore the principles and practices of mass communication, advertising, and public relations, learn to develop integrated communication strategies, and gain practical experience working on real-world campaigns for clients.
Through industry partnerships, and collaborative projects, you'll gain insights into the inner workings of media, advertising, and public relations industries and prepare to navigate the complexities of today's communication landscape.
After graduating from this course, you'll emerge as a versatile and strategic communicator, ready to pursue a variety of roles in advertising agencies, public relations firms, media organizations, or corporate communication departments.
Whether you aspire to work as an advertising copywriter, public relations specialist, media planner, or communication strategist, our BA (Hons) in Mass Communications, Advertising and Public Relations will provide you with the knowledge, skills, and connections to succeed in the fast-paced and competitive world of strategic communication.
As a Public Relations Officer, you will shape public perception and build positive relationships where your strategic thinking and communication skills will drive brand reputation and influence.
In this role, you'll serve as a spokesperson and advocate for organizations and brands, crafting messages, managing media relations, and building goodwill with stakeholders.
Your responsibilities will span from developing PR strategies and campaigns to executing tactics such as media outreach, event planning, and crisis communications.
You will be cultivating relationships with journalists and influencers, pitching stories and securing media coverage, and monitoring and analyzing media sentiment to inform strategy.
You will shape narratives and perceptions that align with organizational goals and values through leveraging your expertise in storytelling, media relations, and stakeholder engagement.
Whether you're managing corporate announcements, responding to media inquiries, or organizing community events, your focus will be on building trust, credibility, and goodwill with stakeholders.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-television-undergraduate-fulltime:
BA (Hons) Television direct entry (Year 3) degree course will encourage you to think and work creatively and professionally on practical production work across drama and factual genres.
This ScreenSkills-accredited course strikes a balance between gaining technical production skills and developing your creative practice through teamwork.
We have strong links to the creative and media industries in Scotland and beyond, which are embedded in our teaching and learning.
And with direct entry to Year 3 , we support students from Further Education to succeed at university.
The programme reflects the converging worlds of broadcast television, film and new media, providing a distinctive and high-quality undergraduate experience.
The course provides a work-based learning module, dedicated to help students gain work experience in the industry.
This award-winning course was nominated as one of the top three universities in Scotland for Film Production and Photography in the Guardian University Awards 2017.
This course is industry recognised by ScreenSkills, the industry-led skills body for the UK's screen-based industries and carries the ScreenSkills quality-mark for the purposes of indicating courses best suited to prepare students for a career in the screen industries.
P301
Learn how SACI placement helped BA (Hons) Television graduate Klaudia in her career
BA (Hons) Television graduate Deborah Dow shares her placement journey
The course is structured so that your individual qualities and interests can be identified and developed.
This course is industry recognised by ScreenSkills , the industry-led skills body for the UK's screen-based industries and carries the ScreenSkills Select endorsement which indicates courses best suited to prepare students for a career in the screen industries.
The course has very close links with industry and with a range of practitioners involved in all aspects of television and media production.
Teaching staff also have direct personal experience.
In Year 3 you will study and engage with practical and theoretical approaches to TV production, linking directly to industry contexts.
There is an emphasis on team work which reflects the collaborative nature of professional practices in television employment
In Year 4 you will focus your creative and technical skills and prepare for and execute your Final Project production.
You will choose an option between researching and writing an academic dissertation or engaging in industry-focused experience and career pathways.
We also offer BA (Hons) Television through our partner, City of Glasgow College .
You’ll learn by a variety of teaching methods including lectures, seminars, workshops, independent study and research.
You will be continuously assessed throughout the academic year, through both creative practical work and academic assessment, including essays, case studies and reports, as well as production documentation.
In Year 4, the TV Work Based Learning module is dedicated to helping you secure industry experience.
The School of Creative Industries also has a dedicated careers team who work closely with Programme staff to offer support and opportunities across a range of creative and media industries.
This is a direct entry course and there are no opportunities within the course structure to study abroad.
However, we do support students who wish to gain experience abroad during the summer of Year 3, and with funding applications to film abroad for Year 4 Final Projects.
Compulsory modules:
Options include:
We work closely with our industry partners to offer projects, short-term work placements and work experience opportunities to our BA Television students throughout their degree.
What are the entry requirements for Television?
If academic conditions are met, and after further scrutiny of the application, applicants may be invited to an interview and asked to submit a showreel/portfolio.
Our dynamic programme designed for aspiring television professionals will guide you to step behind the camera and explore the art and craft of television production.
Through a blend of theory, practice, and hands-on projects, you'll learn to develop and produce compelling content that entertains, informs, and inspires audiences.
This course will prepare you for a position in the highly competitive creative and media sector.
The positions you’ll be pursuing could include:
Throughout the course, you'll explore the history and theory of television, learn to operate industry-standard equipment, and gain practical experience producing a variety of television formats, from news and documentaries to drama and entertainment.
Through studio sessions, location shoots, and collaborative projects, you'll gain insights into the television industry and prepare to pursue a career in this exciting and ever-evolving field.
Whether you aspire to create compelling documentaries, produce engaging television dramas, or develop innovative formats for streaming services, our BA (Hons) in Television will provide you with the knowledge, skills, and connections to succeed in the dynamic and competitive world of television production.
As a Television Director, you will lead the charge in shaping television programming where your creative vision and leadership will bring stories to life on the small screen.
In this role, you'll serve as the driving force behind television productions, overseeing every aspect of the creative process to ensure that artistic visions are realized and audiences are engaged.
Your responsibilities will span from interpreting scripts and storyboards to directing actors, blocking scenes, and collaborating with production crews.
Picture yourself orchestrating dynamic camera movements, coaching performances, and making creative decisions that shape the look and feel of television shows.
You'll leverage your visual storytelling skill and your ability to collaborate with writers, producers, and actors to create compelling and memorable television experiences.
Whether you're directing dramas, comedies, or live events, your focus will be on capturing moments that resonate with audiences and elevate the overall quality of the production.
Your passion for television and your dedication to bringing stories to life on the small screen will set you apart as a visionary director, shaping the future of television and inspiring audiences around the world.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/mfa-advanced-film-practice-postgraduate-fulltime:
This course is ideal for talented writers, directors, producers, cinematographers, sound designers or editors looking to take their careers to the next level.
The MFA Advanced Film Practice provides a space to focus on your personal, professional and creative development.
The MFA is designed as an additional year of study on top of a Masters Degree.
It might also appeal to talented individuals without a post-graduate degree but with an equivalent body of creative work and/or industry experience.
As part of your application, you will propose a project which will be the focus of your MFA studies.
Screenwriters might wish to develop a screenplay or TV pilot and bible ready to send to producers, broadcasters and agents.
A director might develop a project ahead of a funding application, or focus on a specific area of their craft - working with actors, camera or sound.
A producer might develop a single project in preparation for a funding application or as a ready-to-go low budget feature, or work on a slate of projects.
Cinematographers, sound designers and editors can work on aspects of their craft, seek out work experience, and emerge with a professional CV and showreel.
MFA students will work individually on a series of exercises and on a project.
Nevertheless, there is the opportunity to collaborate with fellow students on Edinburgh Napier's postgraduate programmes - MA Screenwriting, MA Film and the Kino Eyes International Masters in Film.
At Edinburgh Napier, you can also access students studying music, photography, graphic design and other subjects within our School of Arts and Creative Industries (SACI).
Applications submitted after 30 June are not guaranteed to be considered for September entry.
Please contact the Course Leader by email in the first instance: j.mavor@napier.ac.uk .
Arturo Delgado Pereira (MFA 2010) is the Professor of Film Practice at Aalto University in Helsinki.
and an accomplished documentary film-maker working in the hybrid area between fact and fiction.
His latest project, made with a fellow Napier graduate, is on Netflix in 2021.
Please see the Screen Academy Scotland website for further information.
Read about graduates from MFA Advanced Film Practice, MA Film and MA Screenwriting.
What are the entry requirements for Advanced Film Practise?
The entry requirement for this course is a Master's Degree in Film or relevant area.
You can also apply with an Undergraduate degree alongside film related work experience, or substantial professional experience.
All applicants must submit the following items with their application:
Can I get admission into Advanced Film Practise based on my working experience in this sector?
The English Language requirements for this programme are IELTS (Academic) with 6.0 with no individual component score less than 6.0.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ma-film-postgraduate-fulltime:
With emphasis on collaboration, this course has been designed to help you embark on a career as a professional fiction filmmaker in one of the following disciplines:
Teaching is through a combination of collaborative shared modules and modules that focus on individual disciplines.
The two core practice-based modules, Creative Practice and Collaborative Techniques, complement each other, concentrating on professional practice within the framework of the industry crew structure.
Coursework consists of a large number of practical exercises, workshops and short film projects that allow students to deepen their own technical, creative and professional filmmaking skills.
The course also includes academic research and reporting in your chosen discipline, and theoretical modules including critical film study.
The course is approximately 60% practical and 40% theoretical.
The year's work and study culminates in a major project module in which students continue to work collaboratively, in their chosen disciplines, on one or more short scripted dramas.
This course is recognised by ScreenSkills , the industry-led skills body for the UK's screen-based industries and carries the ScreenSkills Select endorsement which indicates courses best suited to prepare students for a career in the screen industries.
The deadline for submitting an application for this programme is 25 April 202 5 .
Whilst applications may be still be submitted after this date, there is no guarantee it will be reviewed for September 202 5 .
Read about graduates from MA Film, MFA Advanced Film Practice and MA Screenwriting.
Screen Academy Scotland is an active filmmaking hub in the culturally vibrant city of Edinburgh.
It offers great scope for collaboration, with some 350 or so students at undergraduate and postgraduate level engaged in diverse film activities.
Students can also draw on support from tutors who themselves have significant experience in the industry.
The Screen Academy is a professionally-equipped facility and we expect student work to aspire to a level that is close to industry standard.
As it's one of only three film academies in the UK accredited by ScreenSkills, the film industry’s skills body, it gives our graduates significant credibility in the industry.
This course will advance your knowledge of your chosen specialist area as well as giving you a rounded understanding of other film making disciplines.
The emphasis on professional skills will help maximise your chance of success.
Previous graduates have had their films screened at festivals around the world, including Glasgow, London, USA, Venice, Beijing, Kolkata and Edinburgh.
Many have gone on to win awards and commissions for TV and feature film projects.
Trimester 1 (optional)
Trimester 3
Graduate film screening at an Edinburgh screening venue in late autumn.
Ita Jansen is an award-winning Writer & Director.
She participated in development programmes such as Berlinale Talents and Torino Film Lab.
Her films have screened among others at Slamdance, Zinebi, The London Short Film Festival, Washington DC shorts, and many others.
Her feature drama In Times of Rain had a theatrical release in Mexico and was broadcasted multiple times by the Mexican National broadcaster Canal 22.
David Lumsden is an award-winning fiction & commercials Director based in Scotland.
His work has been screened to audiences at film festivals around the world.
Alongside his fiction and commercial projects he has also directed broadcast documentaries, made for TV films, and behind the scenes content for feature films.
His work has received awards from Scottish BAFTA New Talent, Roses Creative Awards & The Christopher Johnson Movie Viral Award.
David Byrne has over 30 years experience in the TV and film industry in every role in the camera department; on feature films, HETV drama, commercials, documentaries and industrial / corporate projects for BBC, ITV, Channel 4, Sky and other non-UK channels.
Previous teaching includes courses for Kodak and Technicolor staff.
Susan Brand is Head of Editing at Edinburgh Napier University.
She works with undergraduates and postgraduates including specialist teaching in advanced editing.
Susan has over 20 years of international industry experience as an Editor and Edit Consultant.
She has lived and worked in the UK, US, Denmark, Sweden, Hungary and Southeast Asia and was hugely inspired as a storyteller by this international experience.
She has taught film editing at numerous universities and film schools around the world including as Visiting Professor at Tisch School of the Arts at New York University.
She has been a frequent guest speaker at industry events in the UK and abroad like the Scottish Documentary Institute, The Grierson Trust, Women in Film and Television and she has run her own 2-day course entitled Storytelling in the Edit funded by Skillset, the UK’s premiere film and television production training body.
This is a one-year full-time course starting in September and is split into three trimesters.
Coursework consists of a large number of practical exercises, production of short scripted drama films, lectures, workshops and seminars.
Delivery of practical film-making skills is undertaken with an industry focus, and by academics and visiting lecturers who specialise in relevant professional practices.
Students being assessed as heads of department on the creative practice module films are expected to share production costs.
Students at the Screen Academy have access to a complete range of professional production and post-production equipment and industry software including Arri Alexa Mini LF; Arri Alexa Classic; Black Magic cameras; Super 16 mm; 35 Avid Media Composer suites; Avid Symphony Online and Black Magic Resolve Online; Pro-Tools, a fully equipped dubbing facility with Atmos, along with Movie Magic Scheduling and Budgeting, and Final Draft.
We are an Avid Learning Partner and have staff trained as ACIs (Avid Certified Instructor).
On this module you will gain an understanding of the methods used for the hour-by-hour production management of a crew, the interaction between producer, director, camera, lighting and sound personnel, and the particular issues of working with actors on a professional set.
This highly practical work will be underpinned by a series of lectures and workshops which will equip you with the ability to solve the aesthetic, practical and technical problems that the shooting of complex dramatic scenes presents.
On this module you will be introduced to the particular collaborative problems of shooting on film, particularly with regard to focus, use of prime lenses, and tracking, and the logistical problems faced by a professional crew filming on location.
This work will be underpinned by classroom based work which will help you to understand and solve the aesthetic, practical and technical problems that the shooting of complex dramatic scenes principally on film presents.
In a series of lectures, workshops and tutorials, you will acquire the skills and prepare for advanced exercises in your chosen discipline, as well as an ambitious short fiction film project.
More detailed understanding of the creative possibilities of the image and its juxtaposition will be explored.
You will also have the opportunity to work with advanced professional production and post-production formats in the realisation of your projects.
Through a series of lectures, seminars and workshops, you will learn the technical skills and processes involved in your chosen discipline.
You will acquire a grasp of the principles of storytelling through action and events, the way in which a cinematic world arises out of character and interpretation, and of the meaning of images through composition and cutting.
You will prepare and undertake exercises utilising the skills being investigated to explore your own developing creative practice.
These exercises include short film dramas.
This module will help you explore some of the many possible areas you may wish to study.
Depending on your specialism, this may include performance, script, production, cinematography, production design, editing, sound, composition, or special effects.
Over the course of the module you will learn how to develop your research skills and a range of research tools which will underpin and enhance your cinematographic practice.
This module will provide you with an overview of the production and post production of a short fiction film as it applies to producing, directing, cinematography, sound or editing.
You will be given tutorial support in pre-production, production and post-production stages of your projects, as appropriate.
The focus of the module is determined by your own project(s) and specialism(s) as they have developed over the entire programme.
"The course teaches you a huge variety of film production techniques, not only in your specialisation, but also in other areas."
Jaime Sotelo
MA Film - Sound
I've learnt so much from my tutors, fellow students and guest lecturers.
I'm inspired by the work we are creating and know I've made the right decision.
Reece Cargan
MA Film - Producing
Please make it clear in your application which of the five specialisms you are applying for: directing, producing, cinematography, editing, location sound recording and design or documentary.
There are limited spaces for each pathway to ensure a balance of technical disciplines within the course.
Note on Portfolio
On your application form, please include links to your film portfolio.
We ask that applicants share a minimum of two projects that they feel best showcases their strengths and skills in their chosen specialism.
Each project should be under 15 minutes in length and, as our MA in Film is a narrative drama course, scripted drama films should be a priority.
As part of your portfolio, you should also include a written description of your role on each project.
All files must be clearly labelled with your name and we recommend checking that the links work on other devices.
Please note that scripts and other production materials should not be submitted as part of your portfolio.
We do consider applications for producing without a portfolio if you have a relevant background in arts administration, business or finance.
We will not consider any other applications without a portfolio.
The English Language requirements for this programme are IELTS (Academic) with 6.0 with no individual component score less than 6.0.
The course has been exciting, extremely challenging and has advanced my skills immensely.
In terms of editing, my knowledge of technology and the art of cutting has expanded.
Caitlin Delves
MA Film - Editing
This course has given me confidence in my own abilities and moulded me into someone who is more career conscious, focussed on building upon my strengths and learning from my mistakes.
Olivia Wilkinson
MA Film - Directing

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ma-journalism-postgraduate-fulltime:
Edinburgh Napier University is home to the longest established Journalism programme in Scotland.
Voted No.
1 among UK universities by The Guardian for 2022.
Our MA journalism programme offers a dynamic course that’s closely linked to the industry, combining the latest digital journalism with traditional methods on multimedia platforms in our newsroom, TV and radio studios.
You will learn through practical experience in our  news rooms and we also support you in getting your work published and broadcast.
Recent graduates have gone on to work for media organisations such as the BBC, ITN, STV and across the newspaper and publishing industry as well as public relations, marketing and corporate communications.
Any queries contact programme leader Allan Boughey - A.Boughey@napier.ac.uk
This course opened up new opportunities for me and gave a solid practical base to develop as a journalist.
Tom Freeman
Former student, now Media manager
2:18
If you have a passion for news and an interest in media, along with an instinct to find and produce stories across different platforms: We will teach you to develop skills to make sense of the 24-7 online news schedules, while reporting a story accurately with honesty, integrity and creativity.
Our broadcast studios and multimedia newsrooms provide an industry setting for you to experience journalism first-hand.
You’ll gain a firm understanding of media law, ethics and regulations.
Furthermore, you will develop your analytical and critical skills to hone your writing, communication and research techniques.
You'll also benefit from studying in Edinburgh, the political, legal, cultural and economic capital of Scotland and recently celebrated as the UK’s leading tech hub.
This gives ENU unlimited access to accommodate guest lectures and work placements to help you develop industry contacts and give you the opportunity to work in publishing/broadcasting before you graduate.
We've used our 40 years’ experience of teaching journalism to shape this degree into one of the most modern courses available.
Our curriculum is developed with employers, industry contacts and our teaching staff who have extensive experience as practitioners.
We have a record of close links with BBC Scotland and STV , Bauer media and The Scotsman publications.
Our Subjects include:
• TV & Multimedia News • News Writing – Online & Long Form • Radio News & Podcast commentary • Media Law, Court & Crime reports & Commentary • Magazine publishing: Digital – Investigative – Long Form • Global Current Affairs – critical analysis and theory • Major Project – in-depth journalism
• This is a one year (full-time) course, starting in September 2022 and split into three trimesters.
Teaching methods combine lectures with specialist workshops in our newsrooms and independent study.
• You will be taught to use software such as Burli (audio), Avid (video) Adobe InDesign (publishing) to edit and broadcast and have access to Radio ENRG and out TV studio.
• The course is taught by a team of media professionals-academics with a background in newspapers/online and broadcasting both in the UK and abroad for such news organisations as BBC, STV, Channel 4, Sky News, Al Jazeera, Swiss TV, Talk Radio, RTE, Vanity Fair, The Times, The Sunday Times, The Scotsman, The Herald, Daily Record, The Conversation etc.
Read more to learn more about their professional background .
• You will be continuously assessed and given feedback on ‘live’ newsdays producing an online news website and TV and radio bulletins.
• You will draft news reports – court, crime, hard news and human interest.
You will produce long-form features, supply criticism and analysis in columns, Op Eds and blogs, podcast and pitch to commissioning editors.
• You will debate and analyse academic theory on the media and news values.
• You will complete the programme by producing a Major Project, an in-depth piece of journalism either video or audio, text or online.
There are no formal opportunities to study abroad however students have completed major projects overseas, recently including India, Africa, the USA and across continental Europe.
Our Merchiston campus , situated in the heart of Edinburgh, is home to creative industries, engineering and computing students.
We have excellent facilities including a recently upgraded newsroom, TV and radio studio.
The Journalism Major Project needs a strong subject, one that sells to editors and publishers as a work destined for prime airtime or publication.The Journalism Major Project gives you the chance to mobilise the skills and academic understanding you have acquired on the taught part of the programme to produce a journalistic artefact or series of artefacts of publishable and / or broadcast quality, which is to be accompanied by a professional pitch, with accompanying documentation and a critically reflective essay of 4000 words.The artefact / series of artefacts produced by you must represent a substantial piece of original investigative research which can be dealt with through print, broadcast or online-journalism of a high-quality professional standard.
The total volume of this journalistic artefact / series of artefacts will be equivalent to 11000 words, or technical equivalents (for broadcast, or work presented in InDesign etc).
This word-count volume can be found in the Journalism Major Project Handbook.
The journalist as reflective practitioner; the research base; information as commodity and natural resource; the information society and its critics; the contribution of Daniel Bell; the journalism of information; freedom of information (FOI), local and international; democracy and the fourth and fifth estates; opinion columns and punditry; Walter Lippmann as exemplar; freedom of the press; the idea of the public sphere; Jurgen Habermas and the theory of communicative action; the nature of power/knowledge; Michel Foucault; the political economy of communication and information; the agenda-setting research tradition; news value paradigms; information and media policy issues; information poverty and inequality; copyright and intellectual property; privacy and surveillance; censorship and its viability in an age of information; the press and the secret state; specialist fields, such as sports journalism and science journalism; international institutions and challenges; social justice and ethical issues; emergent media; forecasting and the study of the future; associated research topics as they arise.
The module will require you to think like a potential magazine publisher or editor: you will critically examine the range of magazines available and their routes to market, as well as investigating the various approaches and styles they adopt in order to appeal to a particular target readership.
You will then apply this analysis to the creation of a new publication: learning, drawing upon and practicing a range of editorial and design skills to produce your own magazine.
The module will cover libel, defamation, copyright, criminal and civil courts, criminal procedure, reporting of minors, reporting of sexual crimes and contempt of court.
The module gives a basis of a legal understanding for student journalists.
The principles of court reporting are also covered, including reporting restrictions.
This module will introduce you to the art of finding original news and feature stories, developing good angles, and being aware of your audience for print and online outlets.
Core values of accuracy, attribution, impartiality and balance will be covered alongside ethical and legal awareness.
Besides sourcing up to date stories and conducting interviews, you will refine your writing skills and submit tight copy to deadlines with crisp leads and engaging headlines.
You will develop an awareness and understanding of all aspects of news reporting.
This module will introduce you to a variety of common radio formats as well as the terminology used in specific broadcast environments.
You will expand your critical understanding of the radio environment in the UK and beyond and will understand how news values apply to radio journalism.
The module will enable you to realise story ideas through to completion in a variety of formats suitable for broadcast and podcasting.
You will research stories and find contributors, record on location, and understand the processes and paperwork required of a broadcast journalist including risk assessment and interview techniques.
You will also be taught how to use audio recorders, and scripting and editing software.
This module develops video storytelling techniques for broadcast and online, with emphasis on devising creative treatments for specific audiences.
You will learn the professional skills required to film and edit visual sequences, write a broadcast script, conduct interviews, and present on camera.
Working in a group you will also engage with professional newsroom workflows by producing a number of longer TV bulletins.
In this way, you will develop an understanding of TV studio production, incorporating presenting styles and live interviewing techniques.
These ‘news-days’ enable you to learn in a simulated work environment, where deadlines for regular bulletins and extended news programmes must be met.
The module is closely linked to the industry and mirrors real industry workflows.
You will analyse conventional TV news narrative techniques as well as explore the evolving nature of creative digital video production with an emphasis on mobile journalism and social media platforms.
This module ensures you will experience first-hand industry pressures and develop a knowledge of the journalistic, ethical, and technical challenges of working in a TV newsroom.
There will be extensive discussion and critical analysis of contemporary issues such as privacy and consent, TV regulation, digital platforms and the place of video within a converged and digital workplace.
The entry requirement for this course is a Bachelor (Honours) Degree at a 2:1 or above in any discipline.
Can I get admission into Journalism based on my working experience in this sector?
The English Language requirements for this programme are IELTS (Academic) with an overall score of 6.5 with no individual component score of less than 6.0.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ma-journalism-postgraduate-parttime:
• This is a two year (part-time) course, starting in September 2022.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ma-screenwriting-postgraduate-fulltime:
The MA Screenwriting was launched at Edinburgh Napier University in 2006 and has adapted and developed since then to become one of the strongest screenwriting Masters courses on offer in the UK.
The course is studied at the Screen Academy Scotland , a ScreenSkills recognised Film Academy.
While the course is primarily for aspiring screenwriters, it is also aimed at those interested in script editing, script development and creative producing.
Teaching staff are working screenwriters and producers and there are regular visits from professional writers, producers, directors and those working in script editing and development.
Emma Ramsay MA Screenwriting Graduate
Lorna King MA Screenwriting graduate
In recent years, this course has developed a strong international profile, attracting a diverse range of students.
As a student at Screen Academy Scotland you will be part of a large and thriving film community.
Collaboration is encouraged and MA Screenwriters work closely with students on the MA Film programme.
The MA Screenwriting will develop skills in screenwriting, creativity, analytical thinking, academic writing, professional writing for film (script reports, coverage), editing and developmental skills.
In summary, the MA Screenwriting:
Please visit the Screen Academy Scotland website for more details on our programmes, past students and industry activities.
The course is taught two days a week (currently Thursdays and Fridays).
A range of assessments cover screenwriting (short form, TV and film), industry documents (script reports, coverage) as well as other professionally-focused reports (a case study on your chosen area) and academic writing.
Please visit the Screen Academy Scotland website for details of permanent staff and visiting lecturers.
In this module you will look at storytelling and screenwriting for film and television in various contexts - historical, social, cultural, scholarly and theoretical.
You will develop the skills to examine the practices and products of screenwriting from a critical perspective and to use this to inform your own work and practice.
The module is delivered as a mixture of lectures, seminars and screenings from Screen Academy staff and guest lecturers.
The module is broadly divided into two parts, each of which leads a written assessment: The first focuses on considerations of genre.
Student presentations will be used as the basis for seminar discussion.
Students will consider genre from various perspectives – academic, commercial and (as screenwriters) practical.
Students will produce a written essay on an aspect of genre that interests them.
The second part of the module focuses on screenwriting craft, technique and theory.
The influence of screenwriting theorists (e.g.
Robert McKee) will be considered and debated as will the work of individual screenwriters (e.g.
William Goldman, Josh Weedon).
Technical aspects of screenwriting craft will also be studied with illustrative examples from screenings, handouts etcetera.
Students will produce a case study at the end of the module focussing on either the work of a particular screenwriter OR screenwriting theorist OR the application of a particular screenwriting technique OR a critical study of a particular adaptation.
This module forms a significant element of the course and is your opportunity to undertake a substantial piece of creative work in your chosen medium – feature film, television or digital media - across the final trimester.
The completed work will provide the key element in the creative portfolio of projects you have built up over the course.
In effect, this module allows you to utilise the tools, the techniques - and the confidence – that you have built up over the previous modules.
It is your chance to write your ‘calling card' script – the essential element for the un-produced writer in approaching future producers, developers or agents.
There is no formal teaching in this module: you will have access to your industry tutor (face-to-face, via email or online) at key points in the trimester and to your Module and Programme Leaders.
Your thinking around your Major Project work will already have received formative feedback based on your Script Development Proposal Assessment submission in Trimester 1's Business of Screen Project Development module.Before the beginning of the Module you will provide evidence of your thinking around your Major Project in the form of a formative Tutor Introduction Document which will serve as an introduction to you and your project to your industry tutor across Trimester 3.You will write and develop a substantial written project in one of the following areas: Feature Film Screenplay & Pitch Page or Pitch DeckSingle Television/Digital drama or Series Pilot Episode + Series Outline & Pitch DeckThe Major Project is the culmination of the work done in the other modules in Trimesters 1 and 2 resulting, ideally, in a significant and substantial piece of work which can serve either as a live project in search of development finance and partners/collaborators in the professional world - or as a 'calling card' spec script to attract further interest in you and your work as a writer - for example, to secure the services of a literary agent.
This piece of writing is complimented by the final piece of assessment - a Creative & Critical Journal of 2000 words - in which you look back on your learning, identify areas for further work, study or development and look forward, with a real sense of self-knowledge and authority, to possible career paths.
In this module, students develop a range of short form work - short films, sketches, web dramas, monologues, animation, vertical format etc.
In weekly workshops, students follow a process which mirrors that of a professional screenwriter as they generate ideas and develop their projects producing a series of documents – premise, synopsis, outline, step outline or treatment and various drafts of a number of short form screenplays.
These form a portfolio of work which forms the main part of the assessment in this module.
A Creative and Critical Journal encourages reflection, contextualises the portfolio and provides evidence of the student's research, learning and professional development.
Creative work-in-progress is regularly circulated and workshopped in small groups.
This process develops and enhances the projects, stimulates team-working and collaboration and helps develop the student's own writing but also their story-development, script-editing and inter-personal skills.
This module encourages students to work collaboratively with each other and with other students on the MA Film programme.
The weekly workshop sessions are enhanced by masterclasses and visits from guest speakers - professional writers, producers and script developers - who offer advice and insights into the professional world.
The module is delivered as a series of weekly sessions combining lectures and seminars with visiting industry guests.
Introductory lectures will provide you with a broad contextual overview of the various institutions, structures and key personnel in the film and television industries.
You will examine the composition of the film industry in the UK and internationally and critically explore how screen projects are developed and financed.
Seminars with industry guests will then provide you with case studies of current industry practice across a range of key areas – screenwriting in various contexts, script editing and development, the various producer roles, the legal framework in which development takes place.
These will give you insight into how the industry works and will also inform your own professional development.The assessments for the module require a high level of independent learning and are designed to help you develop a strong sense of the various contexts for your own creative and professional development.
A Market Analysis encourages strategic research into potential markets for your own work.
You will also undertake a Script Development Proposal which informs your own personal, creative and professional development and acts as a first opportunity for you to present (and received individualised feedback on) early-stage thinking on what may be your Major Project on the Masters.
A series of lectures and seminars introduce students to the language, concepts and skills commonly used in the development of projects for the screen, whether in film or television.You will examine the key elements, skills and terminology of dramatic screenwriting (premise, pitch, character, structure, theme, visual style, genre, dialogue, etc) and review the key story documents generated in the development and commissioning process (idea, concept, premise/logline, synopsis, outline, proposal, treatment, first draft, revised draft, pitch page, pitch deck etc.).
The module aims to develop the critical and practical abilities needed in screen project development: an understanding of the language and terminology; personal and interpersonal skills; a critical understanding of the various roles in the creative and industrial process; a sense of the market place across the various forms and formats.
Crucially, the critical, analytical and inter-personal skills required by key personnel in the development process (writers, producers, script-editors, developers) are examined and then developed and tested in a series of exercises, including the module's major pieces of assessment – the Script Report and Coverage/Story Report.You will also develop an understanding of the various jobs, roles and career opportunities across story development in the film and television industries.
Lecture content is interwoven with seminars, screenings and exercises which will encourage you to reflect on how you might practice and apply these tools, concepts and skills to your own creative and analytical work across the Masters.This module is a core element of the MA Screenwriting programme and is also offered as an option to MA Film students, encouraging the development of collaborative skills across the creative disciplines and providing an opportunity to form creative teams.
What are the entry requirements for Screenwriting?
You will also be required to attend an interview and/or be asked to show evidence of an aptitude for the course, appropriate experience, and an indication of how you might benefit from the course.
As part of the application process you will need to submit the following with your application:
Can I get admission into Screenwriting based on my working experience in this sector?
By studying Screenwriting at Edinburgh Napier University/Screen Academy Scotland you will prepare yourself to embark on a variety of exciting and challenging career paths focussing on the development of stories for the screen industries in the UK and beyond, as a screenwriter or in other story development roles - or even as a creative producer.
The MA Screenwriting is a well-established ScreenSkills accredited programme and our alumni now work in industry at the highest levels as Script Editors, Heads of Development, Commissioning Editors, fiction and factual content Producers - and of course, Screenwriters.
Through a blend of theory and practice and with feedback from industry professionals you'll expand your ability to practice the screenwriter’s craft, enabling you to develop your writerly voice as you better understand contemporary markets, audiences, genres and formats to tell compelling screen stories, develop memorable characters, explore surprising plot-lines, create riveting dialogue and master the art of visual storytelling.
Whether you aspire to write feature films, television series or for digital media platforms, our MA in Screenwriting will provide you with the knowledge, skills, and support to succeed in the competitive and ever-changing world of screenwriting.
As a Screenwriter you will craft compelling narratives and bring stories to life on the screen, your creativity, imagination and storytelling prowess captivating audiences and evoking emotion.
Your responsibilities will range from brainstorming ideas and developing narrative outlines and treatments to writing and revising draft screenplays and preparing pitch materials.
You will work within a highly creative but pressured environment in collaboration with Script Editors, Development Executives and Producers all striving to achieve a shared vision which will engage audiences within and beyond the UK.
Whether you're creating original content or writing for established franchises your passion for and dedication to your craft will shine through in every word you write.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ma-screenwriting-postgraduate-parttime:
To ensure there is sufficient time to process your application, we encourage you to submit your application by the end of June.
This is a part-time course starting in September which takes two years to complete.
Part-time students attend classes on Thursdays in Year 1 and Fridays in Year 2.
Over a series of weekly workshops, students develop their own projects from idea to polished first draft.
The workshops are project-driven and student-centred with students presenting work on a weekly basis for peer review, comments and critique.
Students read and, on occasion, write script reports on each other's work.
Students are encouraged to engage in project-driven research but also research of a more contextual nature.
The workshops may be interspersed with seminars, screenings, masterclasses, guest lectures and tutorials.
The module aims to develop students' understanding of the challenges of longer form screenplays in relation to subject, depth, complexity and audience appeal and there is an emphasis on sharing knowledge and practical and craft skills.
In relation to its partner module, SW2B, this module may have a greater emphasis on film over television.
This module gives students on the part-time route the opportunity to write a new piece of work or to start development work towards the major project.
In relation to its partner module, SW2A, this module may have a greater emphasis on television over film.
The English Language requirements for this programme are IELTS (Academic) with an overall score of 6.0 with no individual component score of less than 5.5.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ma-screenwriting-global-online-postgraduate-online-learning:
This 2-year online MA is founded in cutting edge research into screenwriting technique specifically designed to create empowered, innovative, convention-challenging screenwriters with the will and the expertise to break boundaries and create screen stories of international quality.
You will be guided to develop a mastery of screenwriting fundamentals, and pushed to look beyond those fundamentals to more radical techniques, treating your screenwriting as an artform in its own right.
Student-centered active learning will encourage you to take charge and develop your confidence and leadership skills, preparing you for entry into screen industries.
You will be pushed to develop critical thinking and diligent research skills, and encouraged to grow your artistic practice through experimentation.
The programme is committed to creating pathways not just to sustainable professional practice but to innovative and original practice in the screenplay, empowering students to become leading voices in screen industries.
The lead academic for this course is Dr Chris Neilan, an award-winning writer and filmmaker with a PhD in creative writing focused on narrative structure in the screenplay.
He is a leading expert on story structure.
His groundbreaking book on unconventional story structures, Beyond the Monoplot , is available from Bloomsbury.
What are the entry requirements for MA Screenwriting?
The entry requirements for this course is a Bachelor (Honours) Degree at 2:2 or above.
We may also consider lesser qualifications if you have sufficient work experience within the industry.
Applicants will also be required to attend an interview and/or be asked to show evidence of an aptitude for the course, appropriate experience, and an indication of how they might benefit from the course.
As part of the application process applicants will need to submit the following with their application: a personal statement outlining why they want to write for the screen (maximum 300 words); an outline for a feature film or single television drama (maximum one page); a writing sample - this may be a short film script or an excerpt from a feature film script or television drama (maximum 10 pages).
For guidance on the acceptability of other English Language tests please contact goadmissions@napier.ac.uk
The course gives you the skills and knowledge necessary to pursue a career as a screenwriter, script editor or development professional.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ma-sports-journalism-postgraduate-full-time:
Scotland’s historic capital city is home to the long-established journalism programme at Edinburgh Napier University.
Building on the success of our existing multi-platform courses, MA Sports Journalism specialises in digital storytelling for sports coverage in print, online and broadcast.
The course utilises the university’s journalism facilities: our multi-platform digital newsroom and studios for both television and radio.
The sports journalism marketplace has expanded exponentially, driven by technological change, with traditional media supplemented by web-based publishing, digital radio and TV.
Broadcast sport schedules and print sections have been extended and new media like podcasts, video platforms and websites have driven an expansion of user-generated content, including fan media.
You will learn and develop a wide range of the practical skills of sports journalism, commentary and punditry for TV, radio, podcast, online and newspapers.
Edinburgh Napier University focusses on employability and our journalism programme benefits from industry links with media companies and with sporting organisations.
As well as being the subject of sports coverage, the sport bodies and clubs increasingly employ in-house journalism teams to produce video and written content for their channels.
If you have any questions, please email programme leader David Tanner at d.tanner@napier.ac.uk
In this module you will develop the necessary skills to work as a commentator or pundit in a broad range of popular sports.
It checks on the industry standards and encourages you to pursue on practical activities to develop your abilities.
You will critically appraise commentary and produce your own commentary and punditry to a professional level.
You will develop the skills and ability to commentate with authority and credibility at both a written and video / audio level.
The module also includes developments in the modern sport industry, such as data analytics, tactics, sports science.
They will be studied along with the ethical and commercial dimension and major issues faced in different global sports.You will see that keeping abreast of rolling news is essential to develop an in-depth knowledge of the game.
So, you will critically engage with various platforms and understand demand for commentators and pundits.
In addition, you will learn the opportunities they provide for a freelancer sports journalist.
This module offers a global perspective on the sports industry: considering the impact of different modalities and its effects on societies and communities.
It critically examines the world of sports and its multibillion industries across the globe, including the different formats of popular sports, the penetration, and structure in different countries to understand their singularities.In this module you will learn and critically analyse the history and social context of key popular sports: how they reached various parts of the world, and their cultural and political impacts on society.
You will explore the individual characteristics of the main leagues and international competitions, enabling you to investigate the areas and specialism you are passionate about.
The module challenges you to critically appraise the financial aspect of sports industries by exploring regulations, stakeholders, and the emergence of the governing bodies which control them.
This module offers an overall view on the legislation and ethical codes of journalism in Scotland and in the UK, contextualised to a perspective for professionals working in the sports industry.
On this module, you will critically appraise the legal and regulatory challenges facing sports media and the sports’ governing bodies at a Scottish, UK, European and global level.
You will also study how these issues are pertinent to the individual journalist and media organisations and specific sports related legislation.The module will examine how aspects of the law apply in the following areas: •	Criminal (disorder, hooliganism, hate crime, drugs, health & safety)•	Civil (defamation, privacy, copyright) •	Business (liquidation, sponsorship, media rights) and Employment (contracts, visas).
You are also expected to reflect on social media’s legal impact on both mainstream media, professionals, and governing bodies.
Underpinning this will be an understanding of the ethical and legal importance of inclusion, diversity, and human rights in the modern sports industry.
This module will present an introduction to sports journalism and to the sports industry.
You will gain knowledge and understanding of current journalism practice in sports reporting and writing, interview techniques, feature writing and creating digital, multimedia content for online sites and social media platforms.The Sports News Reporting module is designed to provide you with an in-depth understanding of the principles, techniques, and practices of sports journalism.
This module is focused on writing techniques, where you will learn fundamental skills to become a sports journalist.
The module aims to develop your experience in sports reporting and writing, and to provide you with the ability to analyse and critically evaluate sports news stories.
You will have the chance to engage in newsdays, that simulate the industry standards for digital content production.
You will also learn from the work of established sports journalists and get inspired to produce your own pieces.
Sports writing is a varied and broad area which includes events reporting, news writing, tactical analysis, live social media presentation, and the coverage of different sports industries.
The module will equip you to understand and use the language and jargon of different sports and to effectively communicate with both general and specialist audiences and viewers.The module also supports and encourages you to seek press accreditation at different clubs and organisations and attend matches and events to put your skills to practice.
You will receive ongoing guidance from your tutors, and you are expected to pro-actively engage in sports reporting and other sort of sport related news content production to build a portfolio.
The course leader is David Tanner MSc.
David presented live football on Sky Sports.
He has also hosted on BT Sport, STV News, and Sky Sports News and Sky News in London.
David has covered sport in over 30 countries, including the Tokyo Olympics.
He is talkSPORT’s Scotland Correspondent.
What are the entry requirements for Sports Journalism?
We may also consider lesser qualifications if you have sufficient professional experience in sports or the media industries.
You may also be asked to attend an interview with one of our staff team.
This could happen online or in person at our Merchiston campus.
Can I get admission into Sports Journalism based on my working experience in this sector?
You can step into the press box with our immersive programme designed for aspiring sports journalists.
Through a blend of theory, practice and real-world experience, you'll learn to cover the action, analyse the game and tell compelling stories that resonate with sports fans and enthusiasts.
After completing this course, you can expect a career in one of the following roles:
Throughout the course, you'll explore the principles of journalism, learn to research and report on sports events.
You’ll develop your skills in areas such as sports writing, broadcasting, and multimedia storytelling.
Through fieldwork, and collaborations with sports media organisations, you'll gain practical experience covering a variety of sports and events, from local games to international tournaments.
After graduating from this MA programme, you'll emerge as a skilled and versatile sports journalist, ready to pursue a career in sports media.
Whether you aspire to work as a reporter, commentator, producer or multimedia journalist, our MA in Sports Journalism will provide you with the knowledge, skills and connections to succeed in the fast-paced and competitive world of sports media.
The MA Sports Journalism programme is led by former-Sky Sports presenter and correspondent David Tanner.
Students benefit from the university’s close relationships with media outlets and sporting organisations.
As a sports correspondent, you will cover the thrilling world of sports where your passion for the subject and your storytelling skills will bring the excitement of games and competitions to fans around the world.
In this role, you'll serve as a journalist, commentator and analyst, providing in-depth coverage and analysis of sporting events and athletes.
Your responsibilities will span from researching and reporting on sports news and events to conducting interviews and delivering live broadcasts.
Picture yourself in stadiums and arenas, capturing the action as it unfolds, and providing insights and commentary that enrich the viewing experience for audiences.
By leveraging your expertise in sports journalism and your knowledge of athletic competitions and strategies, you will provide informed and engaging coverage.
Whether you're covering major tournaments, analysing game highlights, or profiling athletes, your focus will be on delivering content that informs, entertains, and inspires sports fans.
Your passion for sports and your ability to connect with audiences through compelling storytelling will set you apart as a trusted voice in sports media, shaping conversations and perspectives in the world of sport.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/film-journalism-and-media/student-stories:
Mikey Sneddon, BA (Hons) Television
Caitlin Delves, MA Film
Lewis Robertson, BA (Hons) Journalism

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/film-journalism-and-media/radio-enrg:
ENRG (Edinburgh Napier Radio Group) is our student radio station, which broadcasts live from our Merchiston campus, Monday – Wednesday.
Alongside this, the ENRG website hosts both articles and podcasts written, edited and published by ENU students.
As of 2023, there are 26 shows and 18 podcasts, with a staff of 35 presenters and managers.
It is a well-loved student institution, and an invaluable opportunity for many Journalism students to gain hands-on experience of presenting, hosting, interviewing and content creation of all types.
Radio ENRG launched on Monday 18th November 2013 at 3pm with ‘ENRGize’, the show for all things Edinburgh Napier.
It began as an individual major project by student George Ward, but soon developed into a student radio station following the recent closure of the student newspaper, Veritas.
The current Dean of the School of Arts & Creative Industries, Diane McLean, was the module supervisor at the time.
George’s supervisor for his major project, Allan Boughey, is the longest serving presenter at the station.
He is still a member of the Journalism teaching staff at ENU, and has supported and helped with the development of ENRG over the years.
As more students and staff got involved, the project developed from a student newspaper in audio form into a full media platform, and a space where students could practise the skills they were learning on the Journalism course and build their confidence alongside their skills, knowledge and understanding.
BA Journalism Programme Leader Carolynn Scott said of the station:
'I see ENRG as a hugely valuable part of the journalism department.
It allows students to come together, to take ownership of the ever-expanding network, and create a sense of community that would be hard to replicate.
It’s inspiring to watch our students collaborate on projects and each year welcome new classmates into the ENRG family.
From the social aspects, allowing students to meet peers from other year groups and courses, to the opportunity to gain hands-on real life experience, you can’t put a price on what ENRG brings to the department.'
Ten years, hundreds of shows and thousands after the first broadcast, RadioENRG invited current and former students and staff to reflect on their memories & journeys with the station and look ahead to the next ten years of ‘talk, tunes, tales and talent’.
Radio ENRG founding station manager, George Ward, wanted to celebrate the success of the platform so far and reflect with former presenters on their time on the channel.
The ‘Birthday Bonanza Broadcast’ aired between approximately 2-8pm and included a number of interviews with past and present members of the ENRG team.
Of the experience, George said: ‘It was surreal to be back and I was hugely impressed by the passion & enthusiasm from all of the current students & staff involved.
The 'ENRG' brand has expanded enormously over the years and I am truly delighted how it has given so many people a platform to create & collaborate, to present & produce and to learn & improve.’
Some alumni sent through voicenotes reflecting on their time at the radio station and what they are up to now.
Former station manager and presenter Cassie Burke, now a Content Marketing Director in the US, said: "Radio ENRG was by far one of the best things I did as a student.
I have so many fond memories of countless hours in the booth, loading up music and jingles, figuring out the logistics of live performances and late-nights on campus producing the 24-hour charity broadcast.’
Former presenter Emily Grieve shared her memories of her show which inspired her current career.
‘My show was called Positive Vibrations...
it was a nice, eclectic mix of feel-good songs.
I now run Miss Mobile Disco which is a full-time mobile wedding DJ job!
Radio ENRG was a key part of getting me into DJing and having that creative outlet alongside my course was definitely one of the highlights of my time at Napier and sparked my interest in what I do now as my full-time job.’
To listen to our shows, read our articles and find out more about Radio ENRG, visit the website here .

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/our-schools/school-of-arts-and-creative-industries/about-our-school/alice-shone:
The experience gave her a surprising insight into the behind-the-scenes work that goes on.
“I had no idea how any festival, whether it was literature, film or music, was run,” she admitted.
“There’s just no way of knowing.
I was actually very surprised about how few members of staff there were in the beginning.
By the end there were hundreds, but there were only a few people who decided what films were going to be shown.
It has opened my eyes up completely.”
As someone who loves films and TV shows, Alice says the best thing about her placement was getting up close and personal with the industry.
“Just being part of it was amazing,” she said.
“I got to go through all of the archive footage from the old catalogues and brochures, from the very first one to last year’s, because I was helping the artistic director for the coming festival.
“It was so cool looking back over not just all of the old films, but also the old adverts including really old whiskey adverts.
They’d all be in black and white or written on paper we don’t use anymore, so just feeling those things from almost 70 years ago was brilliant.
I’d look forward to it every day getting to look through a few more old films in my spare time.”
I learned that I can do it...It’s a brilliant feeling!
Being that dynamic and feeling that alert all of the time is quite exhausting but I felt like I’d achieved something.
Alice Shone
BA (Hons) Film
"During the festival itself I got to meet one of my favourite photographers, Tim Walker, because he directed a short film called 'The Muse' we were showing.
It was quite embarrassing actually because I was quite starstruck and I didn’t know what to say!
“I also got to meet Robert Kondo, the director of my favourite film at the festival, which happened to be another short film called 'The Dam Keeper'.
Meeting him was great.
He brought me some signed postcards and badges which was just lovely.
Getting to meet your idols is quite wonderful.”
Alice believes her placement taught her what she was capable of as she juggled her Edinburgh Napier studies with her placement and job.
“I learned a lot about myself,” she said.
“I was working five days a week at the Edinburgh International Film Festival, two days a week at my other job, and in any time that I was not sleeping, I was doing course work.
“I learned that I can do it.
I think most people could do it.
When you have to do something, you just get on with it.
It’s a brilliant feeling!
Every day I thought, yes!
I’ve done it.”
Finally, we asked Alice to sum her placement up in no more than three words.
Here’s what she came up with: “Magical, exciting and fulfilling.”

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/our-schools/school-of-arts-and-creative-industries/about-our-school/polmont-project:
Edinburgh Napier Photography students put on creative workshops and over the following three months, the budding snappers picked up some useful techniques and worked hard to develop their own portfolio of images.
For many of the young men, it was their first experience of working with a camera and they produced some inspiring results!
Check out some of their unique ideas below.
The film featured several learners talking about adjusting to life in prison and offered an introduction on the learning opportunities within the establishment.
The photography was based on the theme of possessions and featured images of objects with personal significance to the learners.
After being encouraged to think about objects that were important to them, the learners were taught how to photograph using a range of camera techniques shown to them by the participating students.
Photographs ranged from poignant images of rosary beads, CDs and other items of importance.
The project was facilitated in the establishment’s Fife College Learning Centre, part of the Offender Outcomes area which provided a number of natural creative learning opportunities for the project.
It was facilitated by staff from Fife College and supported by Mary-Ann Kennedy, photography lecturer and Kirsten Macleod, film and TV lecturer, both of Edinburgh Napier.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bm-midwifery-undergraduate-fulltime:
We offer you the best start in studying  the art and science of midwifery.
At Edinburgh  Napier University you have the exciting opportunity to develop your knowledge  and skills to ensure that the care offered to women and their families has a  woman centred approach and prioritises the ethos of compassion and  professionalism.
As a midwife  you will be recognised as an expert in supporting, advising and advocating for women  and their families during pregnancy, childbirth and post-partum care.
This  course offers you the opportunity to develop clinical midwifery practice in a  variety of healthcare settings.
We work closely with local healthcare providers to organise work placements which allow you to put theory into practice, and you’ll get to prepare in advance in our state of the art simulated clinical environments.
You will be supported by a team of midwife lecturers who  have a wealth of expertise in both clinical practice and current  research.
Midwives are  autonomous practitioners who practice in a multi-disciplinary care setting and  midwifery is a very distinct independent health profession which possesses its  own knowledge skills and competencies.
Midwifery care holistically encompasses  the unique experience of each individual woman throughout their journey.
Please note: We will have a newly NMC accredited Midwifery Programme from September 2021.
If you have a degree already, you may also be eligible to study our Masters in Midwifery (MM) programme designed for graduates, which enables you to achieve a post-graduate Masters qualification alongside your nursing registration.
We have a 96% satisfaction rate for our Midwifery course (National Student Survey, 2023).
B720
Explore Midwifery students’ stories and experiences while studying at Edinburgh Napier University.
24.:42
In your theoretical study of midwifery, we will teach you using a blended learning approach, which includes lectures, tutorials, online self-directed learning and workshops.
You will prepare for your placements in our simulated clinical environment prior to your practice placements across South-East Scotland.
Notable midwifery skills include:
On placement you will relate theory to real life practice supported by a placement supervisor/assessor specifically trained to support you and assess your achievement.
The experience you gain will enable you to become a conscientious midwife and contribute positively to midwifery practice.
You’ll become knowledgeable and skilled in the care of pregnant women, their babies and families and graduate ready to go straight into work.
You will also be eligible to apply for registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council .
This qualification means that you have been assessed to be a safe and competent midwife with the necessary understanding and abilities.
Year 3: Students are expected to pay for the registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council, £120.
Your learning experience will be supported by: lectures, tutorials, group work, skills simulation classes and work placements.
Academic writing, including essays and reports, exams and assessment in clinical placements.
Practice placement experiences will reflect the current and emerging model of continuity of carer with implementation of The Best Start: A five-year forward plan for maternity and neonatal care in Scotland (Scottish Government, 2017) .
This will involve caring for women through all stages of pregnancy, birth and postnatal periods.
As a result students will shadow their midwifery mentors working a variety of shift patterns to meet the needs of their case load.
Within this programme you will have the opportunity to arrange an elective  midwifery placement in Year 3.
This can be arranged outwith NHS Lothian and  Borders or with international partners or organisations.
Students have previously undertaken placements in Australia, New Zealand,  Holland, Belgium, Zambia and various countries in between.
What are the entry requirements for Midwifery?
Admission to the programme is also dependent upon a satisfactory Protecting Vulnerable Groups Scheme (PVG) check.
This will be conducted as part of the induction week.
The cost of the PVG check will be paid by the University.
Please note all qualifications should have been taken within the past five years.
Please note that international students are unable to enrol onto this programme.
Selection Test
Part of the selection process for entry to the programme of your choice will include a computer based Confident Caring Assessment (CCA) where you will be given a short video and related scenario with questions.
This is an assessment of the attributes expected of a nurse/ midwife, not your clinical knowledge and skills.
It is designed to assess the qualities needed to work as a nurse/ midwife and the proficiencies outlined in the:
Nurses Standards of proficiency
Standards of proficiency for midwives
The Code and watch these short videos
It presents a series of work-related situations, and you will be questioned about how you would respond.
All applicants are required to sit the CCA.
You may be given an adjusted offer of entry if you meet our specified minimum entry requirements within our widening participation criteria and outlined in our Contextual Admissions Policy.
BTEC National Extended Diploma Level 3
Irish Leaving Certificate (first awarded in 2017)
Access Courses
Midwifery Courses
Students on SWAP Access to Nursing course are not considered for the Midwifery course.
For applicants studying SWAP Access to Medical Studies or SWAP Access to Allied Professions, we require a pass in the internally assessed modules with overall profile grades BBC.
For applicants studying SWAP Biological Sciences or SWAP Life Sciences, we require a pass in the internally assessed modules (including the 3 SCQF Level 5 Maths units) with overall profile grades BBC.
In addition, Higher Biology is also required at grade C or above.
Access to HE Diploma
Applicants who are studying the QAA Access to Higher Education Diploma in a related subject will also be considered for entry to our Midwifery course.
Pass Access to HE Diploma in a related subject* with 45 credits overall, with a minimum of 39 credits at Merit and 6 credits at Distinction.
Biology and English must be achieved at Level 3 and Maths achieved at Level 2 within the diploma.
Related Subject* - Nursing / Midwifery / Nursing & Midwifery / Allied Health Professionals/ Health and Social Care/ Health / Health Care/ Human Sciences / Health and Science Professions / Applied Science / Biology & Psychology
Deferred Applications
Please note that we cannot accept applications for deferred entry for this course.
Previous Nursing Students
Please note that students who have already studied a Nursing degree are unlikely to receive funding for a second Nursing degree.
Mature Students
Adequate and appropriate previous (and recent) study is essential.
Please contact ugadmissions@napier.ac.uk if you are unsure whether or not you would be eligible to apply.
Relevant work experience will be considered alongside recent study.
It may be necessary for those with limited qualifications to undertake an Access course or other appropriate courses/studies in a Further Education setting.
Subjects Required
*Literary subjects include: English/English Literature, History, Modern Studies, Religious Moral & Philosophical Studies/Christian Theology, Psychology, Geography, Sociology, Health and Social Care and Law.
The English Language requirements for this programme are IELTS 7.0 (with no less than 7.0 in each component, excluding Writing which requires 6.5).
By studying Midwifery at Edinburgh Napier University, you will be qualified to apply for roles within both a clinical and social care setting, as a midwife you will be the expert in supporting women during pregnancy, birth and the postnatal period.
By having gained advanced communication, decision making and leadership skills during your course you will be able to support women compassionately and proactively during this time.
You’ll be able to professionally apply the practical and theoretical knowledge you have learned through the most current research, having gained an understanding that midwifery is both an art and a science.
This course will help you to develop your abilities not only to provide midwifery care but also emotional support to women and their families .
If you’re a caring and helpful person by nature, passionate about women’s health, then this may be the right course for you.
As a midwife, y ou’ll most likely work in an NHS setting and occasionally a private healthcare sector.
You will be a main primary care practitioner and expert in providing ante natal, intrapartum, neonatal and post natal support and advice to women and their families .
Midwives must recognise their role during pregnancy, birth and postnatal complications.
Midwives support the use of interventions and technology when necessary to ensure an optimal outcome .
T eam and autonomous working skills will be required to deliver vital care in a fast-paced environment, with no day being the same.
A dvocate normality and midwifery led care as appropriate
Carrying out examinations and screenings before and after the birth, to monitor the growth of the fetus and the overall health of the mother and neonate .
Teaching skills, such as care of the newborn, infant nutrition and personal care to new mothers and parents.
Identifying high risk pregnancies and planning and implementing appropriate care around this.
Relationship building with expectant mothers, families and carers.
Providing information about nutrition and exercise for both the mother and the neona te .
Providing care and support during the labour and in the birth of a newborn, along with providing evidence-based care and supporting women’s c hoice.
Able to discuss future family planning and appropriate contraceptive methods with parents.
Keeping and updating important women and newborn’s documentation.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bn-nursing-adult-undergraduate-fulltime:
Our adult nursing degree course will develop your professional knowledge and understanding in the field of nursing and its application.
Taught by experts in a friendly and supportive environment, you'll put theory into practice in our state-of-the art Simulation and Clinical Skills Centre, and participate in work placements across the Lothian and Borders area in hospital and community settings.
Work placements make up 50% of the course content.
You'll gain the skills needed to demonstrate your eligibility for registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC), as well as a degree, including:
We have a 87% student satisfaction rate for our Nursing (Adult) course (National Student Survey, 2024).
B740
Explore Adult Nursing student stories.
2:27
I got my nursing degree at 52 and I would never have got there without the help, support and guidance of the teaching staff at Edinburgh Napier University.
They helped me graduate with a distinction.
Ross Chalmers
Bachelor of Nursing (Adult), 2017
Consisting of equal parts of theory and practical elements, Adult Nursing is delivered full-time over three years.
Classes range in size from large lectures to smaller tutorial groups, and you’ll learn and practice your skills in a safe environment through our excellent Simulation and Clinical Skills Centre.
With the changing political and social landscape and the emphasis on health and social care integration, this course will prepare you for the future of healthcare delivery by developing your experience in a range of settings.
Several modules are generic across all fields of practice and you’ll study with colleagues in these fields.
Other modules are field specific and relate directly to Adult Nursing:
Year 3: Students are expected to pay for the registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council , £120.
Your learning experience will be supported by lectures, tutorials, group work, skills simulation classes and work placements.
Academic writing, including care plans, completing presentations and reports and assessment in clinical placements.
These placements will be in acute hospital settings and a variety of community environments.
Volunteering opportunities are possible during the longer summer holidays in year 2.
What are the entry requirements for Nursing?
If you require adjustment for a learning support need, please get in touch by emailing nursingandmidwifery@napier.ac.uk before your selection event.
Standard Offer Entry Requirement: BBC preferably to include English or a Literary subject* and a Science subject**.
For those who do not have Higher English and a Higher Science subject, National 5 English and a Science at grade C will be required.
Minimum Offer Entry Requirement: BCC preferably to include English or a Literary subject* and a Science subject**.
BC preferably to include English or a Literary subject* and a Science subject**
GCSE grade C/4 in Maths
GCSE grade C/4 in English and a Science (or Double Award Science) required for candidates who do not have these subjects at A Level.
BTEC (QCF) National Extended Diploma Level 3
Minimum grades MMP (Merit, Merit, Pass) in any subject*
GCSE English, Maths and a Science at grade C/4.
*Recommended subjects: Health and Social Care, Applied Science, Sports Science, Health Science
BTEC (QCF) National Diploma
Minimum grades DM (Distinction, Merit) in any subject*
GCSE English, Maths and a Science at grade C/4
QQI Level 5 Pre-Nursing Studies
Please note the following points about local Access to Nursing courses offered by Further Education Colleges for those interested in Nursing and Midwifery courses at Edinburgh Napier University
Edinburgh Napier University has Partnership Agreements with 4 local Further Education Colleges – Borders, Edinburgh, Fife and West Lothian Colleges for entry to Adult, Learning Disability, Child and Mental Health Nursing.
Well over 100 students study each year, on appropriate preparation to nursing and midwifery courses, at our Partner Colleges.
All students attending SWAP Access to Nursing courses are required to pass the internally assessed graded units with overall profile grades BBC for entry onto the Adult, Learning Disability, Child and Mental Health Nursing programmes.
Students from the Rest of the UK
Pass Access to Higher Education Diploma with 45 credits overall with a minimum of 18 credits at Pass and 27 credits at Merit.
English, Maths and a Science subject must be achieved at Level 2/3 within the diploma.
Mature students
Subjects required
*Literary subjects include: English/English Literature, History, Modern Studies, Religious Moral & Philosophical Studies/Christian Theology, Psychology, Geography, Sociology, Health and Social Care, Law
**Science Subjects include: Biology/Human Biology, Chemistry, Physics, PE (only accepted as a Science subject if studied at Higher level)
If you do not currently meet our minimum English language requirements, we offer a number of pre-sessional English language courses which could help you achieve the required level.
**Following the decision of the UK Government to remove the health bursary in England and move to a loans based support package for nursing, midwifery and AHP students from academic year 2017/18, the Scottish Government has confirmed that students commencing study on Nursing and Midwifery undergraduate programmes in September 2017 will be able to apply for tuition fee and living cost support from their home funding body.
Nursing students will also be eligible to apply for the University’s own generous package of financial support for students from England, Wales and Northern Ireland.
With a nursing degree from Edinburgh Napier University, you will be able to apply the knowledge and clinical skills you have gained on the course such as decision making, problem solving and teamworking to become a leader in healthcare practice.
On completion of this course that you will be able to work in a range of health care settings, but it is likely you will work in the NHS, Private Sector or in the community.
This course will enable you to apply what you have learned within a fast-paced, clinical environment.
You will become an expert communicator, with high professional standards with the capabilities to provide medical care in areas such as phlebotomy, medicine management and diagnosis of certain medical conditions.
If you are someone who is caring and interested in helping people improve their health and quality of life, then this may be the course for you.
As a nurse in adult health, you will be a primary care provider for patients in supporting them in improving their quality of life or overcoming illness or injury.
You will be expected to work both autonomously and as part of a team.
As a registered nurse, you may work within the NHS, private sector or social care settings.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bn-nursing-child-undergraduate-fulltime:
Edinburgh Napier is the largest provider of child health nurses in Scotland and is the ideal starting point for anyone wishing to progress in a career in child health nursing.
The Child Health Nursing degree at Edinburgh Napier has been developed to give you an academic qualification and the vocational training to become a registered nurse.
You'll understand the theoretical aspects that are integral to this career in nursing and also develop the personal skills to communicate with children, young people and their families.
We work closely with local healthcare providers to organise placements which allow you to put theory into practice.
We have a 90% satisfaction rate for our Nursing (Child Health) course (National Student Survey, 2022).
B731
Explore Child Health Nursing students’ stories and experiences while studying at Edinburgh Napier University.
“Edinburgh is a great place to do your nursing training as it is a small community and has really good connections with the hospitals.”
Emily Beaton
Graduate, Nursing (Child Health)
"I spent three months of my final year in Odense, Denmark.
I really wanted to do an Erasmus exchange so it was a great opportunity to continue studying and go abroad."
"The programme involves placements throughout which really embedded my learning as it put my studies to practical use.
The balance of academic and practical expe rience encouraged an understanding of not only how to do techniques but why you are taking someone’s heart rate or respiratory rate."
"I now work as a nurse in A&E at the Royal Hospital for Sick Children.
I love it and I can’t imagine doing anything else.
Every day is different."
3:14
You will develop your professional knowledge and understanding in the child health field of nursing and learn how to apply your knowledge to practical situations, through practice placements and simulation.
You’ll gain the skills needed to demonstrate your eligibility for registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council.
These include:
This course will help you to become competent, knowledgeable, and skilled in caring for children and young people.
The learning, teaching and assessment experiences will allow you to become a reflective graduate with the necessary knowledge and skills to contribute positively to nursing practice.
These placements will be in hospital settings and a variety of community environments.
What are the entry requirements for Nursing (Child Health)?
Edinburgh Napier University has Partnership Agreements with 4 local Further Education Colleges – Borders, Edinburgh, Fife and West Lothian College for entry to Adult, Learning Disability, Child and Mental Health Nursing.
Well over 100 students study each year on appropriate preparation to nursing and midwifery courses at our Partner Colleges.
All students attending Access to Nursing courses are required to pass the internally assessed graded units with overall profile grades BBC for entry onto the Adult, Learning Disability, Child and Mental Health Nursing programmes.
By studying Child Health Nursing at Edinburgh Napier University, you will have gained advanced practical healthcare abilities and decision-making skills to be able to go into a range of roles within clinical, voluntary and community settings in health care.
You will be an expert in communicating with children and young people as well as in being able to apply theoretical and practical skills to improve your patient’s health and enable their recovery.
If you are compassionate, patient and want to improve the health and quality of life of children and young people with health conditions, then this might be the right course for you.
As a child health nurse, you will be able to put your clinical skills and knowledge into practice and provide specialised care.
You will be able to work as part of a team and autonomously, with it being likely you will work in clinical or social care setting.
You may also work as a practitioner in acute settings and specialised paediatric hospitals, as well as within children’s mental health wards.
Daily tasks and responsibilities of this role may be:

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bn-nursing-learning-disabilities-undergraduate-fulltime:
Learning disability nurses aim to improve the health and quality of life of people with learning disabilities through evidence-based nursing care and support.
This degree course will develop your professional knowledge and understanding in the field of learning disabilities nursing and its application, giving you an academic qualification and the vocational training to become a registered nurse.
Taught by experts in a friendly and supportive environment, you'll put theory into practice in our state-of-the art Simulation and Clinical Skills Centre and participate in work placements within Lothian and Borders and across the East of Scotland in a variety of health and social care settings, with both children and adults.
Over the three years you will develop your skills, knowledge and confidence and complete the degree programme with a registered nurse qualification.
Learning disability nurses are the only professionals educated specifically to work across the lifespan with people with learning disabilities.
We have a 94% satisfaction rate for our Nursing (Learning Disabilities) course (National Student Survey, 2022).
B761
Explore Learning Disabilities Nursing student stories.
2:01
2:57
Consisting of equal parts of theory and practical elements, Nursing (Learning Disabilities) is delivered full-time over three years.
Classes range in size from large lectures to smaller tutorial groups, and you'll learn and practice your skills in a safe environment through our excellent Simulation and Clinical Skills Centre.
With the changing political and social landscape and the emphasis on health and social care integration, this course will prepare you for the future of healthcare delivery by offering a variety of practice learning opportunities within NHS Assessment and Treatment Units, Community Learning Disabilities Teams and private sector provision with voluntary sector provision.
This will help you develop a values and rights-based approach to nursing, which is the foundation for the delivery of person-centred, safe and effective care.
We aim to help you become competent, knowledgeable and skilled in nursing care, particularly in the area of profound learning and multiple disabilities, positive behavioural support and mental health.
This course is delivered full-time over three years with 50% theory and 50% practice time.
Theory content includes: Foundations of Health & Wellbeing; Developing Professionalism; Essential Theory & Skills for Learning Disability Practice; Effective Interagency Working in Healthcare; Critical Perspectives of Learning Disability and Effective Leadership in Healthcare.
Your learning experience will be supported by lectures, tutorials, online work, group work, skills simulation classes and work placements.
These placements will be within a range of health and social care settings, including hospitals, schools and in the voluntary sector.
Volunteering and mobility opportunities:
What are the entry requirements for Nursing (Learning Difficulties )?
English, Maths and a Science subject must be achieved at Level 2/3 as part of the diploma.
By studying Learning Disabilities nursing at Edinburgh Napier, you will have gained the practical and theoretical training allowing you to have developed expert health assessment and communication skills, which will enable you to improve the quality of life of patients with learning disabilities through the application of your knowledge and skills .
You will be able to work across a range of clinical settings on completion of your degree – including within hospitals, spe cialist assessment and treatment units, respite and residential services, schools and within people’s homes having key skills to be able to work in a team setting and autonomously .
You will have the opportunity to work within the NHS, local authoriti es and private and third sector .
As well as this, you will develop effective decision-making skills for working in a fast-paced environment.
If you are compassionate and caring by nature and want to improve the quality of life of those with learning disabilities, then this could be the right course for you.
A s a specialised registered nurse in learning disabilities, you will be a primary health care practitioner and be able to work in health, social care, and voluntary settings.
In your role, you will be responsible for providing medical and emotional support to those within your care as well as ensuring that families and carers have the support they require.
T asks you may carry out within this role include:
Improving the health and wellbeing of people with learning disabilities
Work in collaboration with people with learning disabilities and those who are important to them to improve their health outcomes
Planning , implementing and evaluating care and treatment plans
Teach appropriate daily skills that may be required to enable people with learning disabilities to a chieve the highest possible quality of life
Work with different multi-disciplinary teams, including education and social work to meet people with learning disabilities holistic health and social care needs

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bn-nursing-mental-health-undergraduate-fulltime:
Explore the rewarding and complex study of mental health and develop the skills required to practise nursing in a compassionate and recovery-focused way.
Taught by experts in a friendly and supportive environment, you’ll put theory into practice in our state-of-the art Simulation and Clinical Skills Centre, and participate in work placements across the Lothian and Borders area in hospital and community settings.
This dynamic, forward-looking three-year course aims to produce effective and skilled practitioners.
It also offers a combination of theory and practice with opportunities for you to exercise some choice over what you study, including the option of an international placement.
You’ll gain the team working, personal and decision making skills needed to demonstrate your eligibility for registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council including:
We have a 81% satisfaction rate for our Nursing (Mental Health) course (National Student Survey, 2024).
B760
Explore Mental Health Nursing student stories.
3:00
The three-year degree shares common theory modules with other fields of practice  and includes shared input on research, leadership and quality development.
You'll  concentrate on key mental health topics including communication and therapeutic  skills, understanding and working with users and carers in mental health  services and knowledge of legal and ethical practice.
There  is also a strong emphasis on recovery, positive mental health, values-based  practice, user and carer involvement and mental health promotion.
This  course allows you to specialise in mental health nursing, providing both an  academic qualification and the vocational training to become a registered  nurse, underpinned by key themes:
If your first language isn't English, you'll normally need to undertake an approved English language test.
The English Language requirements for this programme are IELTS 7.0 (with no less than 7.0 in each component, excluding Writing which requires 6.5).
By studying mental health nursing at Edinburgh Napier University, you will be able to provide practical recommendations and solutions to promote patients’ recovery through the knowledge you have gained.
You will have developed effective interpersonal communication skills which are required within mental health nursing, enabling you to deliver care to those in hospitals and the community as a registered mental health nurse.
On completion of your degree numerous opportunities will become available such as work within a hospital setting, in community units, in child and adolescent mental health services, in dementia services, in prison services, within forensic psychiatry and drug rehabilitation, in third sector organisations or research settings to name a few.
As a mental health nurse, you will build therapeutic relationships with your patients after identifying their requirements in terms of mental health support.
You will have high professional standards, leadership and decision-making skills, and be able to make links to areas such as physical and mental health in planning and delivering care.
Daily tasks you might carry out in this role include:

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bsc-nursing-studies-undergraduate-full-time:
This one-year full-time programme offers a professional development opportunity for nurses who have a Diploma of Nursing from outside the UK and wish to enhance their career opportunities by attaining a degree qualification.
On completion of the programme, students will then have the option to complete Parts 1 & 2 of the NMC test of competence, including OSCE examination.
The NMC test of competence is not part of this programme and will be students’ individual responsibility, however, the programme will help to prepare students for this process, with the aim of registering with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) in the UK.
Next start date is May 2026.
At Edinburgh Napier University, we aim to be recognised as a university that is professional, ambitious, innovative, and inclusive, and the School of Health and Social Care aspires to provide you with an excellent, personalised student experience.
This one-year full time programme will enable you to “top up” your academic qualifications to a BSc Nursing Studies award and develop the competencies necessary for potential NMC registration.
The programme acknowledges the diversity of your experience and learning needs, and we understand you may be working and studying concurrently.
The BSc Nursing Studies curriculum aims to provide you with a programme of study that is relevant to contemporary nursing practice and will provide you with learning opportunities to enhance your knowledge and skills to allow you to progress in your chosen sphere of nursing practice and prepare you for the UK registration process (OSCE test).
In accordance with the ENhance curriculum framework guiding principle of student–centred education, the programme has been developed with employability, global focus, inclusion, sustainability, and research and practice integration in mind.
If you hold a diploma in nursing from countries outside the UK and registered as a practising nurse, this programme will enable you to deepen your knowledge of evidence-based practice and develop a critical approach to integrated healthcare where you can effectively apply theory to your own nursing practice.
You’ll gain theoretical and practical nursing skills that will prepare you for nursing practice within the UK health system.
Through classroom based lectures and tutorials, and practical classes delivered in our simulation and clinical skills centre, you will develop knowledge of contemporary nursing in the UK.
After graduation, and should you choose to also complete the NMC registration process, you will be able to work as a registered nurse in the UK.
Aspects included are leadership and quality improvement processes, understanding evidence-based practice, ethical care, and health promotion.
Upon completion of the course, you will have achieved the necessary skills and abilities to deliver excellent person-centred care across a variety of settings.
Support for academic skills, and a structured orientation and induction process are built into the programme to facilitate your integration and achievement.
This includes aspects such as English for academic purposes, IT skills and numeracy.
Course academics
You will be supported while studying by the Programme Leader, Dr Emma Hughes, module leaders, as well as dedicated programme administrators.
Dr Emma Hughes is a registered nurse with clinical experience in renal, cardiothoracic, operating theatre, community, and critical care across Scotland, Australia and New Zealand.
Emma also worked as a Senior Clinical Research Nurse within NHS Lothian, as well as part of the Infection Prevention and Control Team.
Emma spent time nursing in refugee camps and is actively involved in supporting the well-being of displaced people in Scotland, as well as undertaking research in this field.
Emma specialises in community nursing and public health and is Module Leader for these topics as part of the Bachelor of Nursing, BSc Singapore Nursing and BSc Global Online Nursing programmes at Edinburgh Napier University (ENU), UK.
Emma is Lead for Sustainability within the School of Health & Social Care at ENU and is passionate about climate change, environmental health and sustainability in healthcare, embedding these themes into nursing curricula.
She currently reviews for a range of nursing and public health publications and sits on the editorial board for Scope Health & Well-Being Journal.
Dr Leila El Alti is a lecturer on four programmes at the School of Health and Social Care at Edinburgh Napier University.
She previously worked as a Registered Nurse in intensive care and palliative care in Beirut, Lebanon.
Before joining Napier, she worked at the University of Gothenburg in Sweden where she also completed her doctoral studies in philosophy with a focus on healthcare ethics, mental illness, and person-centred care.
At the moment, she leads three modules, supervises PhD and MSc students, and is a member of the school’s research integrity committee.
She is also a member of the Scottish Council on Human Bioethics and a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy.
Her research interests include women’s healthcare, obstetrics violence, bioethics, clinical decision-making, and healthcare provision models.
Rebecca Brew is an Adult Nurse Lecturer at Edinburgh Napier University.
She is currently the Deputy Lead for undergraduate nursing module: Caring for Self and Others within the School of Health and Social Care.
She formerly worked as an Adult Nurse for the National Health Service (NHS) for almost three decades.
Her nursing background has been in Medical Emergency, Infectious Diseases, Telehealth with focus on Clinical Decision Making and Clinical Supervision and was the Practice Educator for Internationally Educated nurses.
She served as the equality, diversity and inclusion representative, supporting persons from Global Majority Heritage in health boards in Scotland.
She has worked in United Kingdom, Ghana/West Africa and lived in Geneva/Switzerland.
She recently developed a training program tailored to, the Nurses and Midwives Council’s (NMC) Objective Structured Clinical Examination (OSCE) for Internationally Educated Nurses.
She delivered training with a team of nurses and provided Pastoral Care for the Internationally Educated Nurses in a health board in Scotland.
She is a Doctoral Candidate, and her research focuses on Internationally educated female West African nurses and their initial transition into the Scottish healthcare workforce: A mixed methods study.
Her research interest is in intersectionality, gender, race, social identity and cultural humility.
She has a passion for decolonizing the nursing curriculum and spaces.
She is currently pursuing her Advance HE Fellowship.
Dr Shirley Ching is a lecturer in nursing and programme leader of BSc Nursing Studies (Global Online) within the School of Health and Social care at Edinburgh Napier University.
She has the experience of teaching pre-registration and post-registration nursing and research courses in Hong Kong and United Kingdom.
She supervises MSc and PhD students’ dissertations and publishes in books and international journals.
Her research focuses on cancer care and resilience of nursing students.
Shirley is a fellow of The Hong Kong Academy of Nursing, Union for International Cancer Control, and a founding member of the Pi Iota Chapter (Hong Kong) of Sigma Theta Tau International Honor Society of Nursing.
Fiona-Jean Howson is an NMC registered nurse , a Lecturer, and a Practice Educator within the School of Health and Social Care.
As a registrant, she has gained a wide range of clinical experience within specialised critical care units within the UK.
Fiona-Jean is a very experienced Module Leader and Programme Leader.
She has worked at an institutional level working co-productively with programme leaders in their role and in using an appreciative enquiry approach to articulate student feedback into their curriculum.
Currently, Fiona-Jean is the Deputy Programme Leader for the Global Online Programme and teaches within the international provision.
Her current expertise is on the enhancement of nursing leadership, management of enduring conditions, health promotion and the ethical and legal dimensions of nursing.
She teaches at undergraduate and postgraduate levels across ENU, Singapore, and the GOL programme.
Fiona-Jean is a Senior Fellow of the HEA and an Edinburgh Napier University Mentor.
She has also rotated through various roles and has experience as an Academic Advisor, External Examiner, Open University Lecturer and Critical Reader for Sage Publishing and MacMillan Education.
Fiona-Jean is most passionate about the de-construction of knowledge and the integration of the principles of assessment for learning and assessment of learning into all curricula.
This full-time course will take one year to complete and will be structured to support the development of knowledge and skills necessary for contemporary nursing practice in the UK.
You’ll learn by a variety of teaching methods including lectures, guest lectures, tutorials, clinical skills classes & and independent study.
The modules within the programme are offered through blended learning (which may include on-campus teaching and the use of technologies).
As an adult learner, you will be encouraged to take responsibility for your own learning with support from academic staff within Edinburgh Napier University.
Each module has a formative assessment that is directly aligned to the summative assessment and academic and peer feedback mechanisms will be used to aid your learning throughout the programme.
The formative assessment does not carry credit but is helpful to guide you in developing your work for final submission.
The learning activities have been written and developed to encourage you to undertake deep rather than surface learning and the academics will attempt to enthuse you through their specialist knowledge and innovative teaching methods to become actively engaged in your learning.
Core knowledge and understanding is acquired through lectures, seminars, tutorials, group work and guided independent learning.
Your knowledge and understanding will be assessed using a combination of reports, case studies, portfolios, essays, and project proposals.
Cognitive skills and other attributes are promoted through lectures, tutorials, group discussions and group work.
Clinical skills are strengthened through practice in our Simulation and Clinical Skills Centre .
Learning to apply these skills to healthcare topic areas is done using case studies.
Cognitive skills and other attributes are assessed using a variety of assessment methods.
Throughout the course, there will be formative assessments providing feedback and helping you to develop your academic skills, and one summative assessment per module.
Assessment formats may include reports, portfolios, essays, presentations and clinical assessments.
The course is based at our modern Sighthill Campus on the west side of Edinburgh.
The campus is home to the School of Health and Social Care.
Our state-of-the-art Simulation and Clinical Skills Centre will enhance your learning throughout this programme.
Featuring a range of clinically realistic learning areas, the skills centre enables real work learning and hands on practice in a wide range of clinical skills.
You will utilise equipment used in clinical practice and have opportunity to practice nursing skills in a safe learning environment.
The campus also offers a large library and numerous lecture theatres and classrooms, as well as the Student Sports Centre at Engage and areas for food and coffees/teas.
All modules are compulsory:
This is a one-year full-time programme.
You are required to have a student visa and stay in Edinburgh during the course of study.
The English Language requirements for this programme are IELTS 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in each component) or equivalent.
On entering the programme, students will be allocated advanced standing based on existing qualifications/education.
This is a one-year full-time programme at the equivalent level to year 3 in our pre-registration Nursing programmes.
You must already have a current registration to practice as a general nurse with a recognised nursing regulatory body in your country of nursing practice, have a diploma in Nursing or successfully achieved at least 240 Scottish Credit Qualification Framework (SCQF) credits (or equivalent) in nursing of which a minimum of 120 credits are at SCQF level 8 (or equivalent).
In the instance that applicants do not meet the SCQF Level 8 entry requirement, an online SCQF Level 8 module will be a pre-requisite before commencing the programme.
Please note that successful completion of the SCQF Level 8 module will top-up internationally qualified nurses to the professional qualification level required for entry on to the BSc Nursing Studies (on-campus) programme.
(The 20 credits for this online SCQF Level 8 module will not be counted as part of the BSc Nursing Studies programme final award.)
On entering the BSc Nursing Studies programme, students will be allocated advanced standing based on existing qualifications/education.
If you wish to gain NMC nurse registration, you will have the additional cost of both part 1 and part 2 of the NMCs examination.
This one-year full time programme will enable you to “top up” your academic qualifications to a BSc in Nursing Studies award and develop the competencies necessary for potential NMC registration.
Once completed, you will have a solid foundation to sit the separate OSCE required by the NMC to be registered to work as a nurse in the UK.
Upon gaining your OSCE, you will be qualified to work as a nurse in the United Kingdom.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bsc-nursing-studies-global-online-undergraduate-online-learning:
At Edinburgh Napier University, we aim to be recognised as a university that is professional, ambitious, innovative and inclusive, and the School of Health and Social Care aspires to provide you with an excellent, personalised student experience.
In our dealings with you, we will act with respect and integrity.
We will create an environment to enable you to feel proud to be a student of the University, to feel confident and supported while being academically challenged to further and deepen your knowledge and skills.
A wide consultation process was undertaken to ascertain feedback from all stakeholders (including current and former BSc Nursing Studies students, registered nurses, nurse managers, nurse educators, other healthcare personnel and patients) to enable the BSc Nursing Studies course to be evaluated and revised to ensure it meets the needs of registered nurses working in contemporary healthcare practice.
As this course is delivered fully online (part-time), you will have the opportunity to make a real difference in your career with minimum disruption to your work and personal life.
12-28 months
This course is designed specifically for registered nurses who wish to 'top up' their academic qualifications to a BSc Nursing Studies award.
It acknowledges the diversity of learning needs of professionals in the workplace, particularly those who are working in healthcare environments and studying concurrently.
It will deepen your knowledge of evidence-based practice and develop a critical approach to integrated healthcare.
You then can effectively apply the theory to your own nursing practice.
You will study subjects that are relevant to contemporary nursing practice, and you will be provided with learning opportunities to enhance your knowledge and skills to allow you to progress in your chosen sphere of nursing practice.
Depending on your previous level of study, you will complete either five or six modules and complete the course in 12–28 months.
Where available, a maximum of two modules can be completed in each trimester.
While you'll manage your own learning, you'll be provided with guidance on how best to work with the online materials and on the importance of reflection in order to meet the course objectives.
In addition to the module materials, you'll receive full support from module leaders and the programme leader, full access to our online library support, as well as being able to contact our dedicated administration team, should you have any queries.
For the award of the BSc Nursing Studies, you must successfully pass all modules.
What are the entry requirements for Nursing Studies Global Online?
On successful completion of this course you will have the knowledge, understanding and skills to gain graduate-level employment in healthcare.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-advanced-clinical-practice-named-speciality---postgraduate-parttime:
The philosophy of this course is to use a professional work approach integrated with an understanding of practical application to create a high employability focus and impact on your practice.
At all stages, you will be encouraged to take an independent self-learning approach to developing a deep knowledge of your subject area.
There are five ‘core’ named specialities available which align to the Transforming Roles, Clinical Core Competencies (Phase 2 Paper):
In order to achieve all clinical competencies and speciality skills for this qualification, you will need to have a clinical supervisor and be employed by a UK healthcare organisation.
You will be given the opportunity to acquire and develop many valuable intellectual, cognitive, and practical skills.
These include the ability to collect, analyse, interpret, and understand data and information in the health and social care workplace and academic environment.
On completing this programme, you will have been given opportunities to gain an appreciation of the value of education to society and to you as an individual.
This course is designed to be flexible and dynamic, allowing learning to be tailored to individual career aspirations.
You will have the opportunity for inter-professional learning which can be contextualised to your health and/or care environment.
If you choose not to complete the full master’s degree, you can exit at various points during the course and achieve an award commensurate to the credits accrued.
On completion of this course you will be able to:
What we offer:
There are 4 distinct exit points from the program.
Exit with a Certificate of Credit (40 credits), Postgraduate Certificate in Enhanced Practice (80 credits), Post-graduate Diploma in Advanced Clinical Practice (named speciality) (120 credits) and MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (named speciality) (180 credits).
The course is delivered by academic, clinical, and professional experts from medicine, nursing, midwifery and professions allied to health.
A principal team of clinical academics, aligned to your field of specialty, will support you with your journey through the course.
It is inter-professional, flexible and student centred with opportunities to learn together, share experiences, and build networks.
Knowledge and understanding will be developed through a blend of learning and teaching methods and approaches.
This includes student-directed learning, peer support, self-assessment, and practice based assessment and feedback as well as the use of the Virtual Learning Environment (VLE).
You must have an identified practice supervisor, who will oversee the planning and development of practice learning experience related to your field of speciality.
Note: If you are being sponsored by your employer, you will need to provide a Purchase Order Document prior to starting the course.
Please email this document to the Programme administrator: s.malone@napier.ac.uk
What are the entry requirements for Advanced Clinical Practice?
This course is designed for qualified health and/or social care practitioners .
To be considered for this course, you must have successfully completed at least one of the following:
For Advanced Practice (Midwifery) , please note that you must have an appropriate midwifery/obstetric nurse qualification with supporting evidence.
In addition, applicants are also required to have:
This program is for national students only, UK based, and you will need permission and support from your board to embark on it.
Graduates from this course can find opportunities in:

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-clinical-exercise-physiology-postgraduate-full-time:
There has never been a more pressing need for CEPs to support the health of the nation.
The NHS and other health care providers are facing unprecedented demand for services while the experience of Covid highlighted and exacerbated issues related to an underlying physical inactivity epidemic.
CEPs are University MSc qualified health professionals trained to screen, assess and apply clinical and scientific reasoning to ensure safety and appropriateness of exercise-based interventions that can support long term behaviour change; as professionals they are expected to advance their practice through continuing education, competency development and professional experience.
Our MSc programme helps graduates to meet the Academy for Healthcare Sciences (AHCS) Standards of Proficiency which are in line with the Health Care Professions Council (HCPC) Standards of Proficiency.
This course is led by Dr Amanda Pitkethly, and o ur team of excellent academics have a lot to offer.
You will experience their international reach and esteem, for example, Prof.
Anna Campbell is a member of the WHO Cancer Rehabilitation 2030 working group.
The team also have valuable applied clinical experience to bring to the classroom, are involved in developing the CEP-UK national curriculum, as well as the continued recognition and promotion of the CEP profession in the UK.
More information on Clinical Exercise Physiology can be be found here.
I was a student on the previous iteration of this MSc which equipped me with the requisite skills, knowledge and clinical placement experience required for professional registration.
This new programme offers the latest skills and practical experience aligned with the new UK CEP-UK curriculum.
This MSc course will prepare you for a career as a CEP, so that you can:
· specialise in the prescription and delivery of evidence-based exercise interventions to optimise the prevention, treatment, and long-term management of acute, sub-acute, chronic and complex conditions.
· work in a range of primary, secondary, and tertiary care settings as part of a multidisciplinary team of health care and rehabilitation providers
· optimise physical function and health and promote long-term wellness through lifestyle modification and behaviour change across the lifespan.
Accreditation (Academy for Healthcare Sciences (AHCS) accreditation pending)
Our MSc programme delivers the Clinical Exercise Physiology-UK (CEP-UK) curriculum framework.
This national curriculum framework has been developed for all UK MSc Clinical Exercise Physiology degrees to ensure the required knowledge and skills and forms part of the AHCS MSc Clinical Exercise Physiology degree accreditation.
The Academy of Healthcare Science (AHCS) are currently in the process of assessing our programme to ensure that it meets the Standards of Proficiency and principles of Good Clinical Practice.
Members of our programme team have been directly involved in the development of the UK CEP register, the development of the national curriculum framework, and the planning and organisation of ongoing CEP-UK promotion and development.
To pave the way for your career as a registered professional with the title Clinical Exercise Physiologist (CEP), you will be required to complete all the University MSc degree requirements (successfully passing all 180 credits), and, that you meet the AHCS required competencies according to the Standards of Proficiency and principles of Good Clinical Practice.
Please note: Even once we have achieved accredited status for our MSc programme, the AHCS competency requirements are separate from the University degree requirements.
We will make you aware of these expectations and make sure that you are in no doubt as to what is required for you to become a registered CEP.
In this module, you will develop your knowledge of barriers and motivators to exercise (e.g.
capability, opportunity, motivation) and of living with health conditions (e.g.
pain, anxiety, depression, bereavement), including the influence of wider socio-cultural factors (e.g., ethnicity, gender, deprivation).
You will explore the evidenced-based biological, psychological, and social mechanisms through which exercise impacts mental health and wellbeing.
You will learn about contemporary evidenced based theories of behaviour change (e.g.
Self-Determination Theory, Social Cognitive Theory, Affective-Reflective Theory and Dual-Mode Theory) and implement these to inform approaches to support behaviour change.
You will also learn how to apply basic evidence-based, client-centred, exercise counselling/coaching skills to understand goals, confidence, motivation, thereby effectively promoting exercise initiation and adherence (e.g., motivational interviewing).
You will critically explore how behaviour change technique taxonomies are used and develop the ability to select and apply evidence-based techniques in practice to promote self-regulation of long-term exercise behaviour (e.g., barrier identification, action planning, self-monitoring).
You will learn the importance of and how to consistently engage in reflective practice with the understanding of and use of reflective models.
Ultimately, you will develop the ability to co-produce with the client/patient meaningful longer-term goals, beyond the weeks of focused/structured exercise, that lead to an enhanced quality of life, which includes sustainable levels of health-related physical activity (e.g.
at home, workplace, part of transport etc); and to promote a healthy relationship with exercise and understand how to recognise, support and signpost in case of concerns (e.g., compulsive exercise).
This is your final consolidating module, and your opportunity to put all you have learned into your supervised practice opportunities.
Please take care to attend to all the requirements of this module, such as the required clinical placement hours, to ensure that you meet the Academy for Healthcare Sciences (AHCS) requirements or your registration as a Healthcare Practitioner could be affected.Through engaging in a work placement and work based learning in this module you will explore:engagement with partners and people, local pathways, signposting, resources and records, professional relationships, effective communication, quality assurance, referral and self-referral, governance, monitoring and evaluation, physical activity and health opportunities, medical terminology, pre-exercise screening, pre-exercise assessment, functional and clinical assessment, targeted and tailored interventions, person-centred interventions, exercise prescription, data collection and evaluation, monitoring physical activity and exercise, monitoring clients, safety considerations; delegated responsibility, onward referral, professional boundaries, continuing professional development.
You will be provided placement opportunities that will enable you to put your knowledge and skills into practice to experience the range of conditions and environments in the scope of practice with clinical populations.
The structure of these may vary according to the placement host, for example, a single placement host may be able to provide access to patients with a range of health conditions, and to patients in clinical and outpatient/community settings.
Whereas other placement hosts may provide opportunities with one health condition and in either clinical or community settings.
In order that you are able to experience what is expected of our AHCS accredited programme, we work with a range of placement hosts that support high quality placements, and we have a dedicated University placement team, Student Futures, that help us to coordinate a high quality experience that meets our MSc accreditation requirements.
In placement, you will be expected to practice in ways that provide a role model to others in terms of ethical integrity in both research and practice; upholding the highest standards of personal and organisational conduct, according the the Professional Standards of Behaviour and Practice for the Healthcare Science workforce, Good Scientific Practice (GSP, 2021).You will relate your work experience to the academic content of your MSc programme and reflect on the value of prior learning.
You will focus on the self-assessment of personal learning outcomes supported early in the module.
As you work, you will complete a placement log book detailing your experiences for each hour of placement.
Reflective practice and critical thinking are key to your submissions for this module, as such you will also engage in reflective practice of you experiences as you progress in the module to enhance confidence and employability.
As such, in addition to submission of logs, and a critical reflective report, you will also submit a video that evidences your applied work and demonstrates how you meet the principles laid out in the AHCS standards and the CEP-UK scope of practice.
As part of the final assessment, your placement host/s will also provide feedback on your engagement and progress.
This module will introduce you to theoretical learning, experiences and practical skills relevant to the clinical exercise physiology environment.
This will include: familiarity with equipment preparation; safe working practices; preparation and assessment of clients/patients; the ethical, professional and legal constraints associated with this environment; the Clinical Exercise Physiology UK Scope of Practice; referral to other practitioners or organisations; cardiorespiratory and stress-testing; ECG interpretation; NHS and ACSM guidelines; medication and drug interactions.
This module will follow on from Clinical Skills I.
Throughout this module, you will continue developing your knowledge and practical skills required to work as a Clinical Exercise Physiologist.
You will develop your skills and techniques in relation to cardiopulmonary exercise testing, respiratory function, metabolism and appropriate tests to use in a field setting.
As well as developing your technical ability you will gain an in-depth knowledge on interpretation of the data you collect.
This module considers exercise programming design, prescription, understanding and delivery for individuals with health conditions.
It will include theoretical knowledge and practical experience.
More specifically in this module you will learn how to design safe, effective and evidence-based interventions for clinical populations through gaining practical knowledge, using current guidelines and also appraising published scientific literature.
You will develop the ability of how to consider multiple factors (environmental, physical, psychological, medical etc) to prescribe optimal exercise interventions in terms of modes, frequency, intensity, durations and how you can design progressions and regressions accordingly.
A particular focus will be given to evaluating contraindications, identifying risks, and monitoring adverse signs as well as optimally monitoring and evaluating the outcomes of exercise interventions.
The module content and assessments are designed to achieve the above goals.
This module will focus on the acute and chronic effects of exercise and physical activity on the human organism.
During this module you will explore the concepts and principles, which underpin the interactions of the physiological systems and mechanisms in response to exercise.
You will expand your knowledge in relation to the cardiovascular, respiratory, metabolic and skeletal muscular responses to exercise.
You will learn about how the various physiological systems integrate with one another and how exercise responses can prevent non-communicable diseases.
The need to increase physical activity levels/exercise as a treatment or prevention for many chronic diseases is a world-wide pursuit.
Therefore during this module you will engage with literature from across the globe and be encouraged to draw on evidence from a wide variety of populations.
In this module you will cover the aetiology, statistics and treatments for a range of health conditions (cancer, cardiovascular, frailty, renal, mental health, metabolic, musculoskeletal, neurological and respiratory).
During the module we will focus on the underlying pathophysiology of all these conditions.
This module will highlight the relevant treatment side effects and key practical issues related to exercising with these conditions.
What are the entry requirements for Clinical Exercise Physiology?
The entry requirement for this course is a Bachelor (Honours) degree at 2:2 or above , or equivalent experience, in a sport and exercise science or physical activity & health or any human health related science degree (e.g.
Biomedical Science, Human Physiology, or allied health professional degree including Physiotherapy and Nursing).
In addition to the academic qualification, candidates should use their personal statements to show how their undergraduate knowledge and skills, any additional experience and hobbies, support their application for the course.
Additional information
Successful applicants to the MSc Clinical Exercise Physiology programme will be required to complete a placement module, this is dependent upon a satisfactory Protecting Vulnerable Groups Scheme (PVG) Check at the module preparation stage.
The Edinburgh Napier University terms and conditions of enhanced PVG checks and the policy for Applicants with Declared Criminal Convictions can be found here .
Additionally, during the placement module preparation stage, successful applicants, going on clinical placements, will be required to undergo an Occupational Health check, including required immunisations for a variety of conditions.
If an applicant declares an issue, they will be guided to occupational health for discussion concerning their health needs and potential adaptations.
Immunisation is advised but cannot be required nor mandatory.
Documented evidence of previous immunisations will be required, and students will be guided through this process by Edinburgh Napier University when entering the programme.
Successful applicants are recommended to become student members of the British Association of Sport & Exercise Sciences on joining the programme, and to opt in for communications from Clinical Exercise Physiology | Clinical Exercise Physiology UK .
Application advice and support connected to Edinburgh Napier University policy for Applicants with a Declared Disability can be found here .
International applicants MSc CEP programme who are non-native English speakers, will need the following IELTS scores:
6.5, with no element below,  6.5 for reading and writing, and 6.0 for speaking and listening.
Please also note that non-native English speaking international applicants wishing to apply to join the AHCS register will need an IELTs score of 7.0
For guidance on the acceptability of other English Language tests please contact pgadmissions@napier.ac.uk Our entry requirements indicate the minimum qualifications with which we normally accept students.
By studying Clinical Exercise Physiology at Edinburgh Napier University, you will gain the skills and knowledge to be able to work as part of a healthcare team across multiple healthcare settings, such as within a hospital or a community as a CEP.
You will specialise in screening, exercise testing and assessment, as well as the design, delivery and evaluation of evidence-based exercise or physical activity interventions that include education, advice and support that promote lifestyle modification and behaviour change.
As a CEP, you will help a range of people from apparently healthy individuals to those with chronic and complex conditions along the care pathway from primary prevention, through acute management, to rehabilitation and maintenance.
The role of CEP is to work in a range of primary, secondary and tertiary care settings as part of a multidisciplinary team of health care and rehabilitation providers from hospital to community.
For example, within:
• Secondary care pre/rehabilitation settings
• Primary Care
• Private hospital settings
• Public and private multidisciplinary clinics
and leisure services
• Defence Medical Services
• Population/Public health/ Policy advisors
• Workplace health and rehabilitation
• Research/Academic

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-clinical-exercise-physiology-postgraduate-part-time:
The NHS and other health care providers are facing unprecedented demand for services while the experience of Covid highlighted and exacerbated issues related to an underlying physical inactivity epidemic.
CEPs are University MSc qualified health professionals trained to screen, assess and apply clinical and scientific reasoning to ensure safety and appropriateness of exercise-based interventions that can support long term behaviour change; as professionals they are expected to advance their practice through continuing education, competency development and professional experience.
This course is led by Dr Amanda Pitkethly, and our team of excellent academics have a lot to offer.
You’ll learn by a variety of teaching methods including lectures, tutorials, practical lab sessions, and work-based learning.
Years 1 and 2 will be broken down into 3 Trimesters:
Year 1 Tri 1 - 40 credits Tri 2 - 40 credits Tri3 - 0 credits Year 2 Tri 1 - 20 credits Tri 2 - 20 credit PLUS a 60 credit placement running throughout  Tri2 and Tri3
As a CEP, you will help a range of people from apparently healthy individuals to those with chronic and complex conditions along the care pathway from primary prevention, through acute management, to rehabilitation and maintenance.
The role of CEP is to work in a range of primary, secondary and tertiary care settings as part of a multidisciplinary team of health care and rehabilitation providers from hospital to community.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-clinical-healthcare-technology-postgraduate-online-learning:
This programme explores the use of health technologies to improve healthcare experiences and outcomes and the sustainability of health technology adoption to effect service transformation.
The programme themes of transformation, user-centred approach, and innovation run through modules making up this programme of study.
This is achieved through focussing specifically on the following:
You will be given the opportunity to develop many valuable practical skills such as the ability to collect, analyse, interpret, and understand data and information.
If you want to learn more about our research, click here.
The programme is delivered part-time and fully online, as part of our Global Online suite of programmes.
You can choose from two start dates (September and January) and will take 3 years to complete.
You will study 6 modules in total, consisting of one module per trimester.
The virtual learning environment, Moodle, is facilitated and moderated by academic experts in the field of study thus providing opportunities for you to discuss, critique, and synthesise evidence.
Our support team are available by email and phone to answer your administrative queries, our academics are available on email, and you can access our virtual database of frequently asked questions 24 hours a day.
Formative and summative assessments are used to evaluate your learning against the module learning outcomes.
Formative feedback is provided to guide you on how you are progressing and to give constructive guidance to inform development for your final summative assignment.
Summative assignments take the form of authentic assessments and include reports, literature review s, presentations, and technology appraisal.
Within each trimester, whilst there is flexibility to work through the material at your own pace, you need to be aware of the assessment dates as there is no flexibility in these.
A standard module is equivalent to 200 hours of learning and on successful completion of each module you will achieve 20 credits towards your chosen award (two modules on this programme are worth 40 credits).
You will also carry out an independent dissertation research study either through undertaking a literature review, a small-scale primary research study, or writing a substantial research proposal that has the potential to be taken forward to doctoral study.
The final dissertation is equivalent to 600 hours of learning, to gain 60 credits towards your masters’ degree.
What are the entry requirements for Clinical Healthcare Technology?
The entry requirement for this course is a Bachelor (Honours) Degree at a 2:2 or above in a subject related to nursing, midwifery, or allied health professions (e.g., Occupational therapy, physiotherapy, speech and language therapy, radiography.
Can I get admission into Clinical Healthcare Technology based on my working experience in this sector?

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-healthcare-management-postgraduate-fulltime:
This innovative course is designed for graduates who have, or aspire to, a management role in health and social care.
The programme will prepare you to work effectively within the complex and rapidly evolving environments of health and social care, and provide the opportunity to enhance your knowledge and skills within a broad international context.
The programme, delivered by the School of Health and Social Care, will prepare you to work effectively within the complex and rapidly evolving environments of health and social care, and provide the opportunity to enhance your knowledge and skills within a broad international context.
A particular feature is the opportunity to learn on campus with students from Scotland, across Europe and around the world.
On completion of the programme students already working in healthcare have attained promotion or commenced further study at PhD level.
Others have taken the programme as a stepping stone to healthcare management positions in their home country.
Our MSc in Healthcare Management has a 93% overall student satisfaction score (PTES,2023).
(available as part-time )
Aasha Mohamed MSc Healthcare Management
Beatrice Asare MSc Healthcare Management
Lolita Colebrook MSc Healthcare Management student
Nithya Arunachalam MSc Healthcare Management
Learning, teaching and assessment methods focus on providing students with engaging and contemporary learning materials that relate to practice and theory and challenge students to take a critical perspective on both.
While the assessment methods used are varied, they all have direct relevance to the world of work.
The Programme Leader is Mary Abboah-Offei who has a PhD in Palliative care, MSc in Nursing, and a Fellow with the Higher Education Academy.
Mary is a nurse by background and her key research area is developing and evaluating complex interventions including person-centred intervention for people living with HIV/AIDS.
During her postdoctoral research, Mary worked on global health projects including reviewing national health policies, improving early childhood development, and strengthening health systems in low and middle income countries, with funding from the British Academy and the Medical Research Council, UK.
Mary has also lectured in Palliative Care, Quality Improvement & Safety in Health and Social Care, as well as Health and Wellbeing Across the Life Span.
Currently, Mary also teaches on the Master of Public Health programme.
You’ll learn by a variety of teaching methods including lectures, tutorials, online learning and independent study.
The modules to be taught on MSc Healthcare Management are changing for the 2024 intake and the modules currently approved for study by students enrolling in 2024 will be:
A range of assessments are used for learning.
There are no work placements on this programme.
Students are encouraged to attend healthcare management events locally.
This module will introduce you to the  key drivers for effective change management within a sustainable health and social care context.
The module addresses the core themes of leadership and change management, facilitating the consideration of innovative and practical solutions for challenges faced  in delivering an effective, sustainable healthcare service.
Topics will include: sustainable healthcare, organizational behaviour and culture, leadership and change management theory, implementing and managing change within healthcare services.
You will explore relevant policies and models related to clinical governance as well as differentiating between evidence-based practice and clinical effectiveness.
You will also examine the different approaches to determining levels of quality in health and social care and ways of developing improvements in practice.
Through the module you will also investigate the importance of teamwork in delivering quality person-centred care, the evolution of the principles of clinical governance and the quality improvement agenda at both the UK and international level.
Exploration, analysis and synthesis of principles and policies relating to quality assurance, clinical effectiveness, theories and measures, clinical governance; evidence-based practice and the role of clinical guidelines, clinical standards, integrated care pathways and best practice statements, user involvement; monitoring the quality of care, teamwork, accountability and reflective activities which are designed to challenge assumptions and promote learning.
The module introduces you to the theories and concepts of strategic leadership and management in contemporary healthcare.
You will be introduced to the importance of a shared organizational vision and collaborative working to achieve excellence in healthcare.
This module will support you in your professional development as an aspiring leader by analysing your self awareness, interpersonal skills and self management.
This module will give you the opportunity to critically appraise the role of the leader and working with others within a healthcare context.The broad areas that this module will cover include: Leadership and management theory, self awareness and reflection, emotional intelligence, mentorship and coaching, team dynamics and team working, partnership working and working in collaboration, influencing and negotiating skills.
In this module you will develop a set of skills required by all professionals when exploring a work related problem.
The skills you will develop will include how to search and critically examine the literature.
You will explore and develop understanding of a range of quantitative and qualitative investigation methods and data collection tools to explore and inform ways of solving workplace issues.
You will also develop skills in report writing and presentation of findings and recommendations.
You will learn how to identify and evaluate evidence in order to improve healthcare systems.
By constructing an effective search strategy, you will identify relevant evidence to help address a challenge within your healthcare management practice.
For your learning agreement, you will begin by drawing on a range of evidence in order to present a justification for your chosen research question.
This will help you define your aims and objectives for the project.
You will learn how to conduct an effective search strategy and systematically search for empirical evidence.
You will learn how to use critical appraisal tools to enhance evaluation of evidence.
Submitting drafts of each activity to your supervisor, will enable you to gain feedback and support your development throughout the process.
On completion of critical appraisal of selected evidence, you will utilise your critical analysis skills to develop a synthesis of your findings.
Conducting a reflective commentary on the process of conducting an integrative review will enable you to integrate your new academic and professional learning.
This module aims to provide a learning experience that enables you to develop knowledge and skills essential to critical analysis of international health and social care trends, policies and systems.
Such skills are required by healthcare managers and are important for keeping up to date with current, effective healthcare management practices.
Within the module you will explore contemporary issues in international health and social care policies and systems.
To achieve this, each of the three units you study will start by comparing the differences, for example in health trends, between the four countries of the United Kingdom before contrasting this with other countries.
Unit 1 focuses on international trends in health and social care populations.
You will be able to self-assess your confidence in relation to the analysis of data relating to the trends, differentiate between international and global health and reflect on key health and social indicators.
This draws on research based information and current published data.
In unit 2 you will be introduced to health and social care policy and critically reflect on the implementation of international health and social policy by national governments.
This includes examination of the role of the European Union but more particularly, the World Health Organisation in addressing global health issues.
Unit 3 enables you to build on the previous units through critical analysis of international health and social care systems.
Socioeconomic and political drivers to variations in health and social care trends, policies and health care provision will be addressed by considering high and low income countries.
Global challenges to health and social care systems are also addressed.
Your knowledge and understanding of evidence based healthcare management will be developed through the exploration of the module content, online resources and through discussion with other students.
Please note internet access is required to enable you to access module materials, participate in online discussions about contemporary issues in healthcare management and communicate with the team and your peers.
This module will introduce you to key concepts relating to the management of the delivery of healthcare resources.
The module addresses the key national and global policy drivers for healthcare.
You will learn how organisational changes are required to manage complexities in healthcare, seeking to improve service delivery.
This module will address the impact of change, management of resources and organisational development with support from human resources (HR).
Topics covered will include organisational structure; aims, strategy and values; finance; national and global healthcare policy drivers; sustainability of healthcare services, health technology; specialist role in healthcare; managing change; project management; resource management; Human resource contributions-workforce planning; workforce development; performance management; inclusion, diversity, equality.
What are the entry requirements for Healthcare Management?
The entry requirement for this course is a bachelor’s degree with honours, at a 2:2 or above or equivalent in a subject.
Relevant subjects include but are not limited to dentistry, dietetics clinical education, global health, health promotion, health administration or healthcare management, medicine, nursing, midwifery, occupational therapy, pharmacology, physiotherapy, clinical psychologist, radiotherapy, podiatry, speech & language therapist, ophthalmologist, anaesthetics, medical laboratory scientists.
Applicants with a lower degree classification and relevant current work experience may be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Current (or recent) health care work-related experience is required of all candidates seeking admission.
Ideally applicants should have at least 12 months experience working in a leadership or management role.
As part of your personal statement, you should include the following information to support your application:
Can I get admission into Healthcare Management based on my working experience in this sector?
By studying healthcare management at Edinburgh Napier University, you will become an innovative leader in healthcare practice, with strong communication and collaboration skills which will enable you to work effectively as a healthcare manager.
You will learn how to critically analyse current health and social policy at a local, national and global level and develop your problem-solving skills to influence strategic and organisational decision making in the wider healthcare context.
Health care managers play a crucial role in ensuring the efficient and effective operation of health care departments within primary healthcare and social care settings.
They are responsible for planning, coordinating, and overseeing the delivery of health services.
This may include managing staff, budgets, and resources to ensure the delivery of safe and effective high-quality patient care.
Future healthcare managers need to be able to integrate theory and practice to be able to work effectively in a highly complex and rapidly changing healthcare environment.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-healthcare-management-postgraduate-parttime:
The programme, delivered by the School of Health and Social Care, will prepare you to work effectively within the complex and rapidly evolving environments of health and social care, and provide the opportunity to enhance your knowledge and skills within a broad international context
This is a part-time course and attendance is individually tailored to meet student circumstances.
•Critically reflective outlines and essay •Examination •Learning agreement •Project proposal •Project •Report •Financial report •Reflective account
Evidence of your work experience in healthcare (experience of working at a senior management level or equivalent)
How have your current or previous studies influenced your decision to study healthcare management?
What interests you about the subject area or course?
Why do you want to complete this programme?
What skills and attributes you have gained from inside and outside of education?
For example, are you good at problem solving or have good analytical skills?
Do you have a long-term career goal?
How will this course help you get there?
Do you have any relevant work/volunteer experience, and any other achievements you would like to be taken into consideration?

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/mba-health-management-postgraduate-online-learning:
It's a flexible course delivered online (part-time) that will build on your work experience and allow you to combine your MBA with a specialism in health management to reflect your area of interest.
Our online (part-time) MBA with a specialism in health management is designed to deliver accessible, creative and flexible postgraduate business and management education and offers choice in how, when and where you study.
For the award of MBA (Health Management) you must successfully pass all eight modules, giving a total of 180 credits.
Your learning experience will be enhanced with online discussions that supplement the study materials, case study analyses from diverse sectors and articles from leading academics and practising professionals.
What are the entry requirements for MBA (Health Management)?
Can I get admission into MBA (Health Management) based on my working experience in this sector?
The Online MBA (Health Management) will provide you with the opportunity to realise your full career potential.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/mm-masters-in-midwifery:
Midwives provide skilled, knowledgeable and compassionate care to women, newborn infants and their families.
They work across the continuum of pre-pregnancy, pregnancy, labour, birth, postpartum and the early weeks of a newborn infant’s life.
To meet these needs our programme reflects a dynamic, student-centred approach to learning, teaching and assessment.
Studying for a Masters in Midwifery at Napier is fantastic.
There is brilliant support from the university and many resources provided to optimise student well-being and welfare.
Nic Ferguson
MM Midwifery Student
You will spend some of your time learning in our Simulation and Clinical Skills Centre.
In these wards, we don't do things by halves.
The mannequins you train on will breathe, bleed and blink, and respond to the treatment you are giving them just like a real patient.
Come and see where you'll learn!
Over the next decade the Scottish Government plans to implement a new strategy  which will re-shape maternity services in Scotland.
This programme will enable you to be a part of this dynamic and exciting change and contribute to improving the care and experiences of women and their families across Scotland.
Students are expected to pay for the registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council, £120
The theoretical components of the Masters of Midwifery will enable you to develop knowledge and skills that incorporate a critical and reflexive approach to learning.
Theoretical content will be delivered using a blended approach to learning, using a variety of student-centred interactive approaches .
You will broaden and deepen your knowledge of issues by developing advanced research awareness of:
On placement you will relate midwifery theory to clinical practice and will be supported by midwifery practice supervisors and assessors.
This will involve caring for women through all stages of pregnancy, birth and the postnatal period.
You will follow the working patterns of your allocated practice supervisors.
This will involve covering a variety of shift patterns.
The entry requirement for this course is a First degree or Honours degree.
In addition applicants must also have English at Higher/A Level or a Literary subject at grade C, Biology at Higher/A Level Biology or Human Biology at grade C and Maths at National 5/GCSE grade C/4, or equivalent (all three are required to have been completed within the last 5 years ) - if applicants do not have these we can suggest alternative online equivalent courses to undertake.
Selection Day
You may be invited to our Sighthill campus for a selection day.
This will give you the opportunity to meet with the recruitment and teaching teams.
You will also have the chance to explore some of the University teaching facilities, for example our state-of-the-art clinical skills simulation area.
This is an assessment of the attributes expected of a nurse/midwife, not your clinical knowledge and skills.
It is designed to assess the qualities needed to work as a nurse/midwife and the proficiencies outlined in the:
By studying Midwifery at Edinburgh Napier University, you will be qualified to apply for roles within both a clinical and social care setting, as a midwife you will be the expert in supporting women during pregnancy, birth and the postnatal period.
You’ll be able to professionally apply the practical and theoretical knowledge you have learned through the most current research, having gained an understanding that midwifery is both an art and a science.
This course will help you to develop your abilities not only to provide midwifery care but also emotional support to women and their families.
If you’re a caring and helpful person by nature, passionate about women’s health, then this may be the right course for you.
As a midwife, you’ll most likely work in an NHS setting and occasionally a private healthcare sector.
You will be a main primary care practitioner and expert in providing antenatal, intrapartum, neonatal and postnatal support and advice to women and their families.
Midwives must recognise their role during pregnancy, birth and postnatal complications.
Midwives support the use of interventions and technology when necessary to ensure an optimal outcome.
Team and autonomous working skills will be required to deliver vital care in a fast-paced environment, with no day being the same.
Advocate normality and midwifery led care as appropriate
Carrying out examinations and screenings before and after the birth, to monitor the growth of the fetus and the overall health of the mother and neonate.
Teaching skills, such as care of the newborn, infant nutrition and personal care to new mothers and parents.
Identifying high risk pregnancies and planning and implementing appropriate care around this.
Relationship building with expectant mothers, families and carers.
Providing information about nutrition and exercise for both the mother and the neonate.
Providing care and support during the labour and in the birth of a newborn, along with providing evidence-based care and supporting women’s choice.
Able to discuss future family planning and appropriate contraceptive methods with parents.
Keeping and updating important women and newborn’s documentation.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-nursing-adult-health-postgraduate-fulltime:
This full time two-year pre-registration MSc Nursing (Pre-registration) programme is for graduates from any discipline who meet the necessary entry criteria to study and work in the UK.
During this programme, you will learn in a variety of practice settings and study contemporary evidence-based nursing modules.
To facilitate a breadth of authentic educational experiences, you will learn with inter-professional health and social care teams, and from people accessing health and social care support.
You will become a life-long learner; a critical thinker who supports and influences the highest quality evidence base and provides exceptional person-centred care.
You will enter the nursing profession as a confident, proficient and autonomous practitioner, with a strong understanding of current health and social care environments.
You will have the skills to lead, innovate and influence future provision to effectively meet the needs of people.
The School of Health and Social Care is based at our Sighthill Campus in the city of Edinburgh.
We are currently preparing for our first round of selection.
Due to the limited number of places, we recommend applying as soon as possible.
I f you would like to be considered for this round, please apply by Friday 15 August 2025.
For the MSc Nursing Programmes, we cannot consider applicants who will require a Student Route visa or those currently employed by a non-NHS employer on the Skilled Worker Route, unless they are working for other recognised and reputable healthcare providers that operate multiple facilities.
Nurses today need to be able to demonstrate competence and leadership in nursing care.
To deliver this, they need to be able to work flexibly, inter-professionally and collaboratively in a dynamic and ever-evolving health and social care arena.
Our nursing programme takes account of the key initiatives in health and social care at local, national and international levels and is developed in partnership with our clinical partners, students, service users and carers.
You will learn alongside your colleagues on your programme as well as colleagues studying their master's in Mental Health Nursing, colleagues from all fields of nursing on our Bachelor of Nursing (BN) programme and colleagues from our Allied Health and Social Work programmes.
Each of your six practice placements will be specific to the Adult Health field of nursing.
The course is designed so that you will acquire in-depth knowledge and understanding which gives you specific skills and competences to work within a variety of health and social care teams and settings.
The programme will enable you to specialise in your chosen field of nursing to deliver high quality, evidence-informed person-centred care.
On completion, this course will have supported you to become a creative, autonomous, innovative and dynamic nurse with an excellent grounding in nursing theory and practice incorporating current developments within your chosen field of nursing.
Additional mandatory costs
Students are expected to pay for their registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council, at successful conclusion of their programme, £120
Your tutorials, theoretical learning and some skills teaching for the MSc Nursing (Pre-registration) will be online.
Self-directed learning within communiites of learning enable support.
Our clearly structured concept-based curriculum explores the most up to date evidence in health and social sciences, encouraging critical engagement and innovation.
There will be regular clinical skills classes at the superb Simulation and Clinical Skills Centre at the Sighthill Campus in Edinburgh.
There will be regular 'Touchpoint' weeks when you will attend the Sighthill Campus to hear from a range of fascinating speakers about their nursing specialty, career and research, as well as develop your understanding of interprofessional learning.
Touchpoint weeks will also include engaging workshops and the opportunity to meet with each other socially and with your personal development tutor group.
A minimum of five of the six practice placements will be based in and around Edinburgh, the Lothians and Borders.
Assessments are varied and include presentations, written editorials, case reports, verbal patient handovers with peers online, group discussions, critical reflection, and dissertation writing along with ongoing assessment within six practice learning environments.
Integrated into this programme are six practice placements.
A minimum of five of these will be based in and around Edinburgh, the Lothians and Borders.
There is an opportunity for students to arrange their sixth placement experience and we can offer support to help identify an experience further afield within the UK (in Scotland, England, Wales or Northern Ireland) - this is called a mobility placement.
Within the university there are also opportunities for expanding your practice by volunteering in a range of activities, such as the food bank, charities and working with researchers in the School.
Where possible we encourage you to attend conferences, workshops and participate in relevant research studies.*
*These experiences may require funding through sponsorship/self-funding.
You will have the opportunity to practice in both NHS Lothian and Borders, as well as exposure to social care and voluntary services.
Your theoretical and some skills teaching will be online, and for face to face sessions you will be based at the Sighthill Campus in Edinburgh.
Mandatory skills training will take place in a world-class skills unit with simulated clinical and social living space.
The University is committed to delivering high quality programmes of learning and offers excellent support in terms of study facilities, library services, pastoral and academic skills support.
Within the programme you will also have a personal development tutor who will support you and work co-productively to enable you to progress throughout the programme.
This module focuses on Platform 3 of the NMC Future Nurse Standards (2018), which covers Assessment and Care Planning.
The following outcomes from this platform are addressed [3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.7, 3.10, 3.11, 3.12, 3.13, 3.14, 3.15 and 3.16].
In addition outcomes from Platforms 1 [1.14], 4 [4.1] and 7 [7.9] are addressed alongside Annexe A [1.12, 4.2.6, 4.2.6.3] which focuses on communication and relationship management skills.In this module you will critically evaluate the role of the nurse in enabling evidence informed person-centred assessment and care, with a view to executing best practice in person-centred assessment and care planning in contemporary nursing.
You will begin by exploring and critically analysing the overarching concept of ‘person?
from the perspective of ‘being human?, both physically and mentally.
Through engagement with, and critical analysis of the principles and theories informing equality, diversity and inclusion [LO1], human physiology and pathophysiology [LO2], you will gain an in-depth understanding of human health and ill-health all viewed through a lens of complexity, diversity and choice.
Through critically engaging with a wide variety of evidence, you will gain an extensive and detailed knowledge about the importance of working in partnership with the individual to enable high-quality person-centred care [LO1-2].
Key evidence is drawn on from the theories of person-centeredness.
You will be encouraged to critically analyse and evaluate the validity of this theoretical framework as a foundation for contemporary care [LO3].
This will in turn inform your knowledge of person-centred assessment and care planning.
You will explore and critique evidence informing assessment and care planning approaches in nursing, you will then use this knowledge and critique to select valid and reliable person-centred assessment and care planning tools.
You will be facilitated to critically evaluate a range of approaches in order to determine the most reliable approach(s) for individuals [LO4].
The module will enable you to develop critical and applied skills in assessment and care planning while working in partnership with individuals to tailor care to suit a range of health conditions.
This outcome will be underpinned by the knowledge and application of physiology and pathophysiology, critical evaluation of theories informing the concept of person-centred care and evidence-informed practice.
This module has been set up to support the development and enhancement of communities of learning in line with a programme focused approach.
This module focuses on Co-ordinating Care, Platform 7 of the NMC Future Nurse Standards (2018).
The following outcomes from this platform are addressed [7.1, 7.2, 7.3, 7.4, 7.5, 7.6, 7.7, 7.8, 7.9, 7.10, 7.11 and 7.12].
This module will give you the opportunity to further review, critique and consolidate your knowledge in relation to the overarching concepts of evidence informed practice and care.
Key components such as, local/national/international health legislation, health policy, economics, and co-productive care delivery, will be further defined, conceptualised and critically evaluated, with a view to developing and sharing original and creative responses to strategic evidence informed and strengths-based service provision as both a leader and a change agent.
In this module you will be offered a choice as to how you design and execute your dissertation project.
Guidance on how to plan and prepare your chosen approach will be facilitated throughout the module.
The module Moodle site will contain information on getting started; literature searching, critiquing and managing references, and how to present and construct your final summative submission.
Your dissertation project must critically reflect on current evidence and practice to inform the validity and potential impact of your proposed practice development or enhancement initiative.
This module predominately addresses outcomes within Platform 2 of the NMC Future Nurse Standards (2018); Promoting Health and Preventing Ill Health.
The following outcomes are addresses [2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8, 2.11 and 2.12].
In addition, it addresses outcomes in Platform 5 - Leading and Managing Nursing Care and Working in Teams [5.1] and Platform 7 - Co-ordinating Care [7.2, 7.3] as well as Annexe B - Communication and relationship management skills [2.1, 2.2, 2.8].
The module focuses on the interaction of individual and society to inform understanding of people’s experience of physical and mental health and illness and of utilising health and social care provision.
Key theories are drawn on from the social sciences, and specifically from social epidemiology.
You will be encouraged to critique and review these theories with a view to determining their validity, you will do this using both peer reviewed literature and contemporary events.
Theories will be used as a basis for critical thinking about the role of the nursing profession in identifying meaningful evidence informed opportunities to address wider societal problems [LO1].
A critical view of population health strategies will be taken drawing on evidence as to their effectiveness.
Doing so will require you to understand the theory lying behind approaches such as the sensitivity and specificity of screening [LO2, LO3].
This learning will be done with a view to you developing detailed critical knowledge that enables you to consider issues such as accessibility, and demonstrate confidence in communicating complex ideas in lay terms.
The module will encourage you to develop a critical understanding as to the relevance of the theories to themselves and their practice drawing from the social sciences of critical work on structure and agency.
Practical ways in which nurses and the nursing profession can make a difference, including screening (for example for depression, problematic alcohol use, cancer, falls risk and so forth), vaccination, education, inter-professional work (for example drawing on the third sector), and advocacy of individuals and communities [LO3].
This linking of theory to practice will be especially encouraged through the production of an editorial advocating for an intervention that has implications for improving population health [LO1-3].
This module focuses on Platform 6 of the NMC Future Nurse Standards (2018), whichcovers Improving safety and quality of care.
The following outcomes from this platform areaddressed [6.4, 6.7, 6.6, 6.9].
In additionoutcomes from Platforms 1 [1.8], 5 [5.7] and 7 [7.7 and 7.11] are addressed.This module will provide you with the opportunity to develop a critical understanding of the relationship between risk management and patient safety.
You will be facilitated to identify, critique, evaluate and apply underpinning theories, principles and approaches to risk management and patient safety, at a local, national and international level.
The perpetual, worldwide emphasis on quality enhancement, hazard management and the delivery of safe care is increasingly recognised as multifactorial and complex.
It involves predicting human behaviour, which in turn involves the study of behavioural science such as rationality and reliability theory.
To assist you to identify and critically appraise these factors, the module will include the following five units:(1) Introduction to Potential Hazards and Patient Safety - this unit will invite you to explore and critique; the history of risk and patient safety, definitions of risk, safety and quality and relationships between risk, safety and quality improvement [LO 1].
(2) Principles of Risk Management and Patient Safety - will enable you to formulate and extensive, detailed and critical understanding of a systems approach to managing risk and patient safety, while developing a critical understanding of concepts in relation to systems reliability and the impact of cultural influences on risk and patient safety [LO 1-2].
(3) Human Factors and Patient Safety - this unit critically explores human factors science and its impact on safety, and evidence informed approaches to team based working as a solution [LO 2-4].
(4) Approaches to Quality Enhancement - this unit will enable critical appraisal of national and international patient safety programmes and local systems for managing risk and patient safety.
You will critically explore tools and techniques for reducing risk and enhancing patient safety, and be expected to demonstrate understanding about the importance of communication with external partners in relation to quality enhancement approaches [LO 4-5].
This module focuses on Platform 4 of the NMC Future Nurse Standards (2018), whichcovers Providing and Evaluating Care.
The following outcomes from this platform areaddressed [4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, 4.8, 4.9, 4.10, 4.11, 4.14, 4.15, 4.16 and 4.17].
Inaddition outcomes from Platforms 6 [6.8] and 7 [7.5, 7.6] are addressed alongsideAnnexe A [3.4, 3.5, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9 and 2.1] which focuses on communication and relationshipmanagement skills.
At the start of the module, you will be presented with a range of case studies developed by experts by experience (service users carers), each of which will give rudimentary details about a person and their condition.
The conditions selected will be be drawn from those listed in Annexe A 2.1 (NMC Standards for Proficiency, 2018) and include both primarily physical and mental health conditions [LO 1-2].
You will be asked to ‘sign up’ to a case study, which you will follow for the duration of the module and consequently address in your summative assessment.
Each week will focus on core concepts (e.g.
pain, nutrition, self-care, wound care, drug therapy, family etc.) * [LO 1-3].
You will critically engage with the evidence underpinning these concepts, then apply this to your chosen case for evaluation and discussion in tutorials [LO 3-4].
You will be given the opportunity to critically engage with and synthesise the wider literature to build a more personalised, field specific, critical and evidence-informed plan of care which will form your summative assessment [LO 1-4].Importantly, this module will enable you to conceptualise the links between physical and mental wellbeing [LO 1-3].
The weekly tutorials are designed to let you share your learning (and learn from others), and so offer healthy challenge and debate to the work of others.
The weekly online work contributes directly to the summative assessment, aiding engagement.
The aim of this module is to help you to develop as an accountable professional nurse.
The module will include theoretical study, practice learning and simulation of nursing procedures aligned to NMC Future Nurse: Standards of proficiency for registered nurses (2018).
The module content addresses NMC outcomes drawn from Platform 1 - Being an Accountable Professional [1.1, 1.11, 1.12, 1.13, 1.16, 1.15, 1.17, 1.18, 1.19, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.9, 1.10], Annexe A - Communication and Relationship Management Skills and Annexe B - Nursing Procedures.
In addition, outcomes relating to communication, professionalism and evidence informed practice from Platforms 2 - 7 are also addressed.
Platform 2 [2.9, 2.10], Platform 3 [3.6, 3.8, 3.9], Platform 4 [4.2, 4.3, 4.12, 4.13], Platform 5 [5.11], Platform 6 [6.11] and Platform 7 [7.4, 7.13].This module spans all three trimesters within the first year of the MSc Nursing (Pre-registration) programme.
Each trimester you will undertake one Practice Learning Experience (PLE); trimester 1 - PLE 1, trimester 2 - PLE 2, and trimester 3 - PLE 3.
Each PLE in year 1 will equate to 3 days per week.
Practice learning will be integrated with self-directed online theoretical learning for which you are given two days per week.
Theoretical and practice learning is complemented by online group tutorials and critical reflection sessions.
At the end of each trimester Touch Point weeks will enable further interaction with your peers and be a forum for a range of activities such as,  listening to keynote speakers, accessing conferences, attending research seminars, collaboration with other inter-professional and cross institutional Masters students, and taking part in voluntary work and other career development activities.
In order to prepare you for your first practice learning experience (PLE),  you will undertake a period of theoretical and simulated skills learning at the beginning of the module, including mandatory skills - cardio-pulmonary resuscitation (CPR), manual handling (MH) and prevention and management of violence and aggression (PMVA).Theoretical input focuses on the introduction of three essential core concepts - professionalism [LO 1, LO 4], communication [LO 2, LO 5], evidence informed practice [LO 1 - 5].
Module concepts will be presented within online units of study to enable exploration and analysis of key nursing knowledge and procedures [e.g.
types of communication, motivational interviewing, breaking bad news etc].
Further context is added through the identification and critical examination of the complexity within the socio-political and economic dimensions of health and social care and evidence underpinning self-leadership, professional relationships and co-production within contemporary nursing practice.
Concepts focused on in the module are relevant to all fields of nursing practice and scenarios used to enable your learning will address content relevant to mental health, adult health, learning disability and child health nursing.
This shared approach to learning will prepare you to meet the person-centred and holistic care needs of the people you encounter in practice, who may have a range of mental, physical and behavioural health challenges and be at any stage in their life.
This approach also signposts you towards field specific knowledge which is further facilitated through completion of the evidence informed online activities, participating in tutorials and simulation, working in practice and completing the module assessments (theory and practice).
Skills development will also be woven into the Moodle platform throughout the module to provide you with a seamless presentation of evidence based theoretical and procedural concepts.
Numeracy, literacy and digital technology within the context of health and social care practice will be explored through understanding and working with service users, health and social care colleagues to support medicines management and monitoring health.
As your conceptualisation of 'being an accountable professional' grows, you will be encouraged to critically reflect upon and analyse any previous assumptions and understandings with a view to identifying your new learning.
Importantly, your applied understanding of nursing within an integrated health and social care context should enable you to identify, conceptualise and develop creative responses to situations encountered in practice.
Through engagement with and critical analysis of both key and wider literature, you will build a personalised, field specific and evidence-informed understanding of the module learning outcomes; these will then be critically examine and reflected upon in your formative and summative assessments.
Completion of this module will enhance your critical understanding, analysis and evaluation of communication, professionalism and evidence informed practice both broadly and in relation to your chosen field of nursing practice (Adult Health or Mental Health).
This is the second of your integrated theory and practice modules.
The aim of this module is to help you further develop leadership and management skills as a professional nurse.
The module content focuses on leadership, teamwork and management and therefore addresses NMC outcomes drawn from Platform 4 – Providing and evaluating care [4.18], Platform 5 – Leading and managing nursing care and working in teams [5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 5.4, 5.5, 5.6, 5.8, 5.9 and 5.10], Platform 6 – Improving safety and quality of care [6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.5, 6.10 and 6.12] and Platform 7 – Co-ordinating care [7.1, 7.10 and 7.12].
Further outcomes in relation to Annexe A - Communication and Relationship Management Skills and Annexe B - Nursing Procedures are also addressed.
This module spans all three trimesters within the second year of the MSc Nursing (Pre-registration) programme.
Each trimester you will undertake one Practice Learning Experience (PLE); trimester 1 - PLE 4, trimester 2 - PLE 5, and trimester 3 - PLE 6.
PLE 4 in the first trimester will equate to 3 days per week in practice and 2 days in theory.
PLE 5 in the second trimester will equate to 4 days per week in practice and one day in theory.
During PLE 6 in the third trimester you will be in practice for the equivalent of 5 days per week.
Practice learning will be integrated with self-directed online theoretical learning.
At the end of each trimester Touch Point weeks will enable further interaction with your peers and be a forum for a range of activities such as, listening to keynote speakers, accessing conferences, attending research seminars, collaboration with other inter-professional and cross institutional Masters students, and taking part in voluntary work and other career development activities.
During the module you will undertake theoretical and simulated skills learning, including mandatory skills - cardio-pulmonary resuscitation (CPR), manual handling (MH) and prevention and management of violence and Module Content aggression (PMVA).
Theoretical input focuses on core concepts - professionalism [LO 1] leadership within professional practice, [LO 2] strengths-based approaches to teamwork, [LO 3] evidence-based approaches to contemporary nursing management, [LO 4] integration of health and social care and [LO 5] self-leadership, co-production in nursing.
During each trimester of the module you will undertake one Practice Learning Experience (PLE) (equating to 3 days per week in the first trimester, 4 days per week in the second trimester and 5 days per week in the third trimester).
This will be integrated with self-directed online learning activities complemented by group tutorials (theoretical input will equate to 1 day per week in trimester one and two).
In addition to this, you will participate in critical professional reflection facilitated by a field specific programme tutor.
Module concepts will be presented within online units of study to enable exploration and analysis of key nursing knowledge and procedures.
The key concepts explored in this module are, professionalism [LO 1] leadership within professional practice, [LO 2] strengths-based approaches to team work, [LO 3] evidence-based approaches to contemporary nursing management, [LO 4] integration of health and social care and [LO 5] self-leadership, co-production in nursing.
dealing with conflict, negotiation strategies and escalation procedures].
Further context is added through the identification and critical examination of evidence informing management, teamworking and theories underpinning leadership including, self-leadership, professional relationships and co-production within contemporary nursing practice.
Concepts focused on in the module are relevant to all fields of nursing practice, and scenarios used to enable your learning will address content relevant to mental health, adult health, learning disability and child health nursing.
What are the entry requirements for Nursing Adult Health?
Bachelor (Honours) degree at 2:2 or above in any degree subject.
Alternatively we can accept a Bachelor (Ordinary) degree in nursing with distinction where registration is in an alternative field to the one you are wishing to study (e.g.
child health or learning disability).
There are two phases to the application process.
In the first we assess your eligibility for the programme.
If you are found to be eligible, you will then be asked to complete a pre-entry portfolio of approximately 2800 words to provide evidence of your relevant prior learning and experience related to the role of a nurse (a template and guidance will be provided).
This enables you to study a shortened pre-registration nursing programme which is two years rather than three years.
The portfolio provides evidence of you undertaking a minimum of 500 hours (equivalent to 12-14 weeks full-time) of occupational or voluntary work supporting the health and/or wellbeing needs of people, in addition to demonstrating a minimum of 500 hours of appropriate theoretical learning and understanding evidenced from a previous degree and practice.
National 5 Maths and Science (Biology, Chemistry or Physics) at grade C or above taken within the past 5 years is also required  - if applicants do not have these we can suggest alternative online equivalent courses to undertake.
To ensure safe and effective practice, all offers to the programme and continuation on the programme will be conditional on a satisfactory Protecting Vulnerable Groups (PVG) check by Disclosure Scotland (which will include a criminal record check), an acceptable Good Health and Good Character assessment as required by the Nursing and Midwifery Council, and that you are passed as fit to practice following an Occupational Health review.
This programme requires a high level of digital literacy to enable engagement with learning materials, using a variety of digital platforms and databases to search for information and evidence, and collaboration as a member of a community of learning during tutorials in a digital space.
English Language Requirements
IELTS 7.0 with no less than 7.0 in each component, excluding Writing which requires 6.5.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-nursing-mental-health-postgraduate-fulltime:
This full time two-year MSc Nursing (Pre-registration) programme is for graduates from any discipline who meet the necessary entry criteria to study and work in the UK.
During this programme, you will learn in a variety of practice settings, and study contemporary evidence-based nursing modules.
We recommend exploring alternative courses that are open to international students or contacting our admissions team for further guidance.
You will learn alongside your colleagues on your programme as well as colleagues studying their master's in Adult Health Nursing, colleagues from all fields of nursing on our Bachelor of Nursing (BN) programme and colleagues from our Allied Health and Social Work programmes.
Each of your six practice placements will be specific to the Mental Health field of nursing.
Students are expected to pay for their registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council, at successful conclusion of their programme, £120.
There is no opportunity to study abroad during the programme.
What are the entry requirements for Nursing Mental Health?

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-occupational-therapy-postgraduate-fulltime:
This innovative programme is designed for graduates who wish to qualify as an Occupational Therapist, with eligibility for registration with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) .
It offers an accelerated two-year route of study.
This unique MSc (pre-registration) Occupational Therapy degree programme best prepares you as a future occupational therapist to work effectively within the complex and rapidly evolving environment of health and social care.
Being both intellectually challenging and practical, this programme will ready you for the real world of occupational therapy at a local and global level.
You will enter the workplace as a confident, competent, and autonomous occupational therapist equipped to lead the delivery of personalised and responsive services, which place individuals and families at the centre of their care and support.
As well as undertaking discipline-specific modules, you’ll undertake collaborative inter-professional modules, where you’ll work closely with students from the other disciplines in health and social care to develop your skills in communication, innovative thinking, clinical reasoning and team working.
Edinburgh Napier University is a unique place to study Occupational Therapy
This course stood out to me because of the collaborative modules.
These have provided me with valuable insight into multi-disciplinary work that have served me well on placement.
Jessica Bolton
MSc Occupational Therapy Student
The course is innovative and exciting.
It perfectly combines my creative background, collaborative skills, and desire to make a difference!
Holly Hearsum
Sarah Geidesz MSc Occupational Therapy
Kate Sammon MSc Occupational Therapy
07:43
From the beginning of the programme, you will undertake discipline specific modules where you will develop your Occupational Therapy knowledge and skills.
This will include research modules, where the theoretical content and methods are considered within the context of occupational therapy, with an opportunity to apply this knowledge to the profession through the dissertation module.
One of the unique benefits of this programme is that you will be able to participate in shared aspects of learning with inter-disciplinary students.
This will allow you to develop a deeper understanding of the roles of others and enhance your skills in communication and partnership working.
In the final term of each year of the programme you will undertake two periods of assessed practice in work settings (practice placements*), and you will undertake preparation for your first placement (preparation for practice) throughout the term 2 of the first year of study.
Year 1: The Developing Practitioner – The Doing and Being of Occupational Therapy
Year 1 of the programme introduces you to foundations of Occupational Therapy and provides an opportunity to develop, explore, and critique the core occupational concepts, contexts, and skills of the profession.
Furthermore, it offers you the opportunity to work with physiotherapy and other student groups within the school who are key partners in delivering health and social care with times to learn and work together across the two years.
Applying and evaluating policy and research in practice is essential for Occupational Therapists, who are required to adopt evidence-informed practice.
Therefore, from the onset of the programme, how policy and research impacts on practice and service provision is explored through core modules.
In Year 1, you will undertake a Developing Professional Practice Skills in Occupational Therapy module which supports preparation to undertake two practice education placements (one seven-week placement and one eight-week placement*).
This module will introduce and consolidate your professional and practice skills.
This arrangement with placement modules prior to the commencement of academic study in Year 2 facilitates your practice experience, understanding of people’s lives when faced with occupational issues, evidence-based decision making, and professional and communication skills.
Year 2: The Capable Practitioner - Becoming and Belonging as an Occupational Therapist
Year 2 of the programme provides you with a more advanced examination of Occupational Therapy practice, philosophical underpinnings, theories, and profession.
You will acquire mastery in critical core knowledge and evaluation of key issues on professional practice as well as critical analysis, synthesis, and evaluation of theoretical concepts central to Occupational Therapy from national and global perspectives.
In addition, learning will enable an in-depth consideration of a community in the context of developing team working, leadership, and entrepreneurial skills.
Your research experience is enhanced in Year 2 and culminates in the production of a dissertation related to occupational therapy.
Like Year 1, in Year 2, two practice education placements* will be undertaken of seven and eight weeks, which consolidates your professional and practice skills and your transition into the workplace as a competent, autonomous practitioner.
This is a full-time course, split into three trimesters.
The programme starts in January.
A student-centred, active learning approach will be used throughout the programme making use of a range of teaching and learning methods.
Examples of these include online and classroom lectures, tutorials, practical classes, group work, use of practical simulation, and guided and independent study activities.
A range of formative and summative assessment approaches are adopted throughout the course.
These will include practical examinations, written essays, reflective activities and presentations.
Each year you will undertake 4 full-time placements which are situated between August and December.
* Practice Placements
Year of study
Placement
Start date
Finish
Flexible catch up
1/2/3/4
From January 2026
March 2026
1st Year
1
26 Sept 2025
2
13 October 2025
5 Dec 2025
2nd Year
3
4
On completion of the programme you’ll have undertaken more than 1,000 hours of clinical practice in a range of health and social care settings.
This long module incorporates theoretical and placement components, the  module facilitates a critical understanding of the theory and practice of human performance in occupational therapy.
During the module, you will develop appreciation of the Occupational Therapy Process, underpinned by professional reasoning.
This will include an ability to justify and critique methods of evaluation, goal setting, treatment planning and implementation, analysis of outcomes in relation to person-centred care.
Content will also include how and in what way professional reasoning influences the design and delivery of the occupational process, including relevant theories applied through an occupation-focused lens.
Your learning will be facilitated by studying the following components: •	Occupational therapy models, professional reasoning and decision-making processes, outcomes measures/methods, and assessment principles (e.g., occupational formulation, occupational profile).
•	Considerations of psychometric properties of assessment tools and their ethical use whilst in practice •	Environmental evaluation, including the role of assistive devices, equipment, and technology and socioeconomic and cultural factors •	Critically analyse and apply occupation-based interventions that align with the values of people and communities.
•	To critique and evaluate the role of current legislation and influence on professional practice •	Two placements  (265  (7 wks)  and 300 hrs (8 wks))  Total 565  hrs where you will demonstrate abilities to apply theories and understanding to practice, working with service users and staff; which will consolidate/expand knowledge and skills from this module.
This long  module has two components theoretical and placement components 3 and 4 and intends to further build and advance knowledge and understanding of the health-giving power of occupation with people, their communities, and across populations.
Part 1 will also include discussion of how the profession can envision future practice that takes into consideration the changing needs of communities.
This will include the influence of sustainability and environmental change impacting local, national, and international contexts.
A translational approach between knowledge informed practice, and practice-informed research and evidence, inclusive of the lived experiences of people, will be considered.
In mobilising research and evidence with and between practice, non-Western concepts of health, well-being, and ways of knowing will be explored.
In addition, global narratives influencing the design and delivery of health and social systems of care such as person-centred practice and human rights will be introduced and critically considered.
The concept of the dignity of risk, influenced by a person-centred, rights-based approach to practice will include engagement with the expectations of ethical and professional conduct.
This will include how the profession can adopt diverse methods of communication to support clear articulation of the meaning and purpose of the profession, for example, through written means (such as educational leaflets), social media (such as blogs, tweets), and engagement with professional peers (scientific reports, presentations).
Your learning will be facilitated by studying the following components:  Ideas of healthfulness and collective occupation influencing the design and delivery of occupation-focused public health interventions.
Frameworks and mechanisms of knowledge translation, including developing a responsibility towards lifelong learning and a growth mindset.
Occupational consciousness and justice and other concepts related to decolonising occupational therapy practice Person-centred theory such as personhood and person-centred practice, human rights in  practice including the PANEL principles,  Principles of sustainability related to the contribution of occupational therapy to mitigate the impact of environmental and climate change.
Consider the relevance and importance of the tools of communication available to the profession that can be adopted with a range of stakeholders e.g., written methods (educational leaflets), social media (blogs, tweets), scholarly outputs (posters, report)Two placements  (300 hrs x 2)  Total 600 hrs where you will demonstrate abilities to apply theories and understanding to practice, working with service users and staff; which will consolidate/expand knowledge and skills from this module.Students are expected to attend 100% of the time allocated to the practice education component of this module.
However approved absences (e.g.
ill health) of up to 7 days can be authorized,  in order to be eligible.to pass the learning outcomes of the practice education component(s).”
You will explore, examine and identify topics which may include: Personal identity, empathy and sense of self Reflection on own life experiences Unconscious bias Health and well-being monitoring Resilience building Human development across the lifespan Ecological frameworks and social processes for individuals and communities including health inequalities, equity, diversity, and inclusion Relationships between social processes, disadvantage, and social divisions.
Different communities and their respective strengths and limitations Developing community profiles Understanding of who service-users might be Voluntary, private, and statutory organisations working with service-users and communities Local, national, and global contexts of health and social care – policy drivers, standards and practices Professionals’ roles in supporting individuals and families in different community setting to overcome inequalities in health and social care through universal services, community resources and resilience
This module will give you the opportunity to develop and practise communication skills (verbal, non-verbal, and symbolic) and to develop skills in self-awareness, self-reflection, and personal resilience.
Recognising that you are continuing to develop your professional identity  as an occupational therapist and an understanding of your own and others?
roles.
This will include reflecting on your personal values and motivations and how these relate to occupational therapy values: including use of self and issues  of power and difference with service users and between practitioners within multi-disciplinary teams.
You will explore several theories and methods of communication and you will learn how to judge the appropriateness of different approaches.
You will consider working with service users in groups as well as individually, and you will also explore the nature, purpose and dilemmas involved in the recording and sharing of information generated by inter-personal interactions.
In this module you will also develop your knowledge and understanding of clinical competence requirements before undertaking your first practice placement.
These are essential when in practice and you will be expected to continually develop your skills and knowledge throughout the programme.
These basic competencies will include the following topics:• Professionalism and ethical behaviour• Public protection awareness (adult and child)• Prevention and Management of Violence and Aggression (de-escalation of violence and aggression)• Moving and Handling• Health Acquired Infection Control• Hand Hygiene • Information Governance • Data Protection• IT Security• Fire Safety• Basic Life Support• Whistleblowing policy and guidance • Suicide Prevention
This module allows you to examine and critique the central values and philosophy of Occupational Science and relate to the development of occupational therapy as a profession.
The module will develop your critical understanding of, and your ability to evaluate, the importance of ‘occupation’ to humans, across the lifespan.
It will also develop your knowledge of the importance of occupation to health and well-being, and to consider concepts of occupational justice in relation to occupational choices and opportunities for people and their communities.
As part of the module, you will critically analyse occupations by participating in, and analyzing, the ways in which we occupy our time influencing health and well-being.
This will allow you to justify occupation as an intervention.
Your learning will be facilitated by studying the following components of occupation as a construct: •	Occupation and its relationship to health and well-being, including ideas of neutral occupations and occupational possibilities.
•	Defining occupation and related constructs.
•	The dynamic nature of occupation.
•	Humans as occupational beings across the lifespan emphasizing life transitions, social and cultural diversity, and identity •	Occupational justice: a history of occupation in societies, including the institutional, socio-political and cultural influences on occupation •	The relevance of the history of occupational therapy in relation to the future of the profession and your own professional development
This module aims to introduce you to key concepts relating to the management and delivery of services as well as allowing you to develop a personal development plan for your transition into professional life.
The module addresses the core themes of leadership and entrepreneurship, looking for you to consider innovative solutions to challenges faced within communities and consider how appropriate services might be implemented.
In doing this, the module aims to equip you with the knowledge and skills to lead change in the future.Topics will include:• Leadership and management – theory and practice• Conflict management and resolution • Organisational aims, strategy, and values• Audit and quality assurance• Entrepreneurship• Social enterprise• Implementing and managing change within services and communities• Service-user and stakeholder involvement in service design and implementation• Project management and resource management• Global perspectives• Sustainability of services• Justice, equity, diversity, and inclusion • Healthcare technologies.
• Occupational performance, participation, and occupational science to support communities
This module offers the student an opportunity to lead and conduct a detailed research study in a topic relevant to occupational therapy.
Building on the research protocol submitted in year 1, this module involves collation and critical evaluation of primary or secondary data, discussion and conclusion of findings, including a reflection on the research limitations, culminating in presentation and synthesise of evidence-based arguments to inform occupational therapy practice, education or policy.
The module submission will be in a format analogous to a research paper, developing the skills required to synthesise the work to the scope and length of a potential publication (British Journal of Occupational Therapists)  facilitates the student to meet all the learning outcomes.
In the era of evidence-based health and social care it is vital to be able to evaluate the research evidence that underpins existing practice and the emerging information that shapes service change.
On this module, you will learn to critically explore research evidence in occupational therapy practice and to synthesise, integrate and apply knowledge of the research process to this.
In this module, we will use real-life examplesfrom local, national and international researchers to develop your knowledge and skills to be able to find and interpret gaps in the existing body of evidence and to askappropriate and relevant research questions with an aim of filling these.
The work done in this module will develop the subsequent dissertation that you undertake in year-2 of the course.
By promoting evidence-based research this module will encourage workingto high professional standards, providing shared governance and accountability ofhealth and social care practice.
The module will include the following content: 1.
Anoverview of the research process.
Critical appraisal of the research evidence toassist in the development of research ideas relevant to practice.
Evaluation ofresearch designs including quantitative, qualitative and mixed methods approaches.
4.Exploration in the importance of research governance and ethics.
Dr Fiona Maclean is an occupational therapist with over 30 years’ experience of working in practice, education and policy, with a particular interest in working with older people.
What are the entry requirements for Occupational Therapy?
A Bachelor’s degree (or equivalent) with honours at a minimum of 2.1 or above in a relevant subject area e.g.
Health, Biological Sciences, Physical Sciences, Social Sciences, Education or Humanities.
Evidenced study in the area of human anatomy and physiology is desirable.
Applicants applying with a 2.2 with relevant recent experience may also be considered.
Applicants with a distinction award in a Bachelor’s degree where honours study was not an option in a relevant health and social care professional will be considered for selection where they can evidence experience of engagement with research evidence.
Applicants will be directed to undertake study at SCQF Level 10 as a condition for entry in the form    of a bridging module identified by the programme team.
Candidates must also have demonstrated commitment to, and knowledge of, Occupational Therapy as a career.
Candidates will be able to evidence to Admissions through their application form and personal statement they have  met with/shadowed a range of Occupational Therapists in diverse settings while being able to compare and      contrast/discuss these different ways of working.
Competition for places varies from year-to-year and achievement of the typical minimum entry requirements does not always guarantee shortlisting for interview or a place on the course.
Interview Requirements
There will be a selection interview and applicants to the programme should meet the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) requirement to be ‘fit to practice’ through having  good health and good character.
Additional Information
Admission to the Programme is dependent upon a satisfactory Protecting Vulnerable Groups Scheme (PVG) Check.
Successful applicants to the MSc Occupational Therapy (Pre Reg) programme will require an enhanced PVG check.
Successful applicants will be required to undergo an Occupational Health check and be immunised for a variety of conditions.
If an applicant declares an issue, they will be guided to occupational health for discussion concerning their health need and potential adaptation.
Successful applicants will required to become student members of the Royal College of Occupational Therapists on joining the programme.
A degree in Occupational Therapy at Edinburgh Napier University offers a fulfilling and versatile career path as an Occupational Therapist with opportunities to make a significant impact on individuals' lives across various settings and specialties.
This degree is the beginning of a lifelong career where you can continue to gain skills, specialise in an area of interest, or pursue advanced degrees such as a doctorate.
Occupational therapists can work in various settings, including hospitals, clinics, schools, nursing homes, and clients' homes, adapting their interventions to meet the specific needs of each client.
An Occupational Therapist helps individuals across the lifespan participate in the activities they want and need to do through the therapeutic use of valued everyday activities (occupations).
They work with people facing physical, mental, or developmental challenges to improve their ability to perform daily tasks, engage in community participation, and be able to fulfil valued roles to support their quality of life.
Occupational Therapists play a vital role in helping individuals overcome challenges and improve their quality of life through tailored holistic approaches .

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-physiotherapy-postgraduate-fulltime:
Physiotherapy-specific modules will prepare you for clinical practice, through development of your theoretical understanding, critical thinking skills, and application of knowledge and skills to physiotherapy practice.
The course will make use of scenario-based learning opportunities, simulation and will involve service users in teaching, learning and assessment, giving you ‘real-world’ experiences.
The course will prepare you to enter the workplace as a confident, proficient and autonomous Physiotherapist, with a strong understanding of current service provision and the graduate skills to lead and innovate in shaping future delivery in a rapidly changing sector to effectively meet the needs of service-users.
Learn more about the Physiotherapy programme by listening to our podcast .
Due to extremely high demand, this programme is now closed for January 2026.
We’re sorry that you won’t be able to join us in January.
Applications for our next intake in January 2027 will open in February 2026.
Toni Robertson MSc Physiotherapy student
Staff organised helpful Simulations for real-life scenarios, organised external guests/speakers with different expertise to enhance our learning, and were supportive and cared about students.
Final year MSc Physiotherapy student
The programme was integrated with other AHP professions.
Lecturers challenged our thinking, have real-world NHS experience, are passionate, and provide good placement opportunities.
Practice educators spoke highly of the course and the university.
3:35
From the start, you will be developing the key skills and theories required to be a Physiotherapist.
This will include developing Physiotherapy knowledge and practical skills and then applying these in a variety of simulations.
Your journey begins with learning and applying foundation skills essential to a Physiotherapist.
These key skills with being revisited throughout the 2 years of study utilising a Spiral Curriculum.
Here we will revisit your key skills and knowledge and develop them further by integrating them into more complex situations.
This not only develops deeper learning but also provides you with the skills required to be a resilient and effective problem solver Physiotherapist.
Research is threaded within your two years of study, as it is an important element of learning and development in our profession.
In the specific research modules, there are opportunities to learn common research skills and theory with other Health and Social Care students (IPL) but with an underlying focus on Physiotherapy research knowledge.
Physiotherapy placements are in the final term of each year of the programme and you will undertake two eight-week placements in practice.
Additionally in the programme, you will be sharing many aspects of learning with other health care discipline students in modules.
This will allow you to develop a deeper understanding of the roles of others and enhance your communication skills and partnership working.
Year 1: Developing a foundation for practice
The first year of the programme is focused on providing a platform and the foundations of Physiotherapy.
It provides an opportunity to develop, explore, and critique the key core concepts, contexts, and skills of the profession, and then apply these in a practice-based setting.
This will include the key critical skills such as philosophical underpinnings, theories, knowledge and evaluation of key issues in professional practice as well as critical analysis, synthesis, and evaluation of theoretical concepts central to Physiotherapy from National and global perspectives.
Furthermore, it offers you the opportunity to work with other Health and Social Care students including Occupational Therapy who are key partners in delivering Health and Social Care with time to learn and work together across the two years.
You will develop communication skills within a team, placing the service user and families at the centre of their care.
These Interprofessional Learning (IPL) opportunities are threaded throughout the two years of the programme and allow you to learn and work together so that you can develop confidence in your role as well as develop a deeper understanding of the roles of others.
The Physiotherapy discipline-specific modules have a strong emphasis on developing your understanding of professionalism and the regulatory and professional requirements for Physiotherapists, as well as theory and knowledge of assessment and treatment modalities.
Throughout both years we will be integrating theory with practice and consolidating your learning through the use of simulation and Problem Based (PB) scenarios.
You will have the opportunity to develop and apply your practical skills within a range of practice settings, making use of the high-tech Clinical Simulation Skills Centre which includes a mock ward environment and Virtual Reality and through engagement with service users.
Applying and evaluating policy and research in practice is essential for Physiotherapists, who are required to adopt the evidence-informed practice.
Therefore, from the onset of the programme, how policy and research impact on practice and service provision is explored through core interprofessional shared modules.
In Year 1, a long thin module incorporates 2 components Theoretical and Practice Education with 2 placements of 8 weeks which introduce and consolidate your professional and practice skills.
This arrangement with placement modules before the commencement of academic study in Year 2 facilitates your practice experience allowing you to develop an understanding of more complex issues and how physical health and innovation play an important role as Physiotherapists.
It will also further develop your evidence-based decision making, and professional and communication skills.
At the end of both years one and two, you will have the opportunity to utilise your learned knowledge and skills and apply these in a variety of practice-based settings in your placements.
These are in the form of four, eight-week placements, two at the end of both years one and year two.
Year 2: Advancing practice and shaping the future
In the second year of the programme, you will develop your skills in critical reflection, clinical reasoning and your ability to critically evaluate evidence for the practice, within more complex scenarios.
This will include working with individuals with complex health and social care needs and exploring specialist areas of Physiotherapy practice.
In addition, you will learn about physiotherapists' roles in promoting well-being and physical activity and in undertaking exercise prescription.
You will be asked to take a global perspective, and develop the entrepreneurial capacity and skills required to lead innovation in a changing health and social care environment.
Your research experience will be enhanced, culminating in the production of a research- based dissertation which focuses on practical and applied results.
You will then undertake two final eight-week placements which will enable you to make the transition into the workplace as a competent, confident and autonomous Physiotherapy practitioner.
In addition, IPL will enable an in-depth consideration of a community in the context of developing team working, leadership, and entrepreneurial skills.
Your research experience is enhanced in Year 2 and culminates in the production of a dissertation related to Physiotherapy.
Similar to Year 1, in Year 2, a long thin module incorporates 2 components Theoretical and Practice Education with 2 placements of 8 weeks which consolidates your professional and practice skills and your transition into the workplace as a competent, autonomous practitioner.
• Foundations of Physiotherapy Practice (PT specific) • Contemporary Health & Social Care Contexts for Physiotherapists (IPL) • Application of Physiotherapy Theory and Practice (PT Specific) • Physiotherapy Research Questions and Methodologies (PT Specific) • Professional Development for Physiotherapy Practice (IPL) • Practice Education 1 • Practice Education 2 Year 2
• Physiotherapy Dissertation (PT Specific) • Leading Innovations in Health and Social Care (IPL) • Building Professional Autonomy in Physiotherapy (PT Specific) • Physiotherapy Practice Placement 3 • Physiotherapy Practice Placement 4
This is a two-year full-time course starting in January comprising of three trimesters.
A student-centred active learning approach will be used throughout the programme making use of a range of teaching and learning methods including: online lectures, face-to-face tutorials, debates, peer mentoring, practical classes, group work, use of simulation approaches, guided and independent stud activities.
A range of formative and summative assessment approaches are adopted throughout the programme.
These will include practical examinations, coursework, reflective blogs and presentations.
Each year, after two trimesters of university-based studies, you'll undertake two full-time eight-week placements .
On completion of the course you’ll have undertaken more than 1,000 hours of clinical practice in a range of health, social care and third sector settings.
What are the entry requirements for Physiotherapy?
A Bachelor’s degree (or equivalent) with honours at a minimum of 2.2 or above in a relevant science related subject.
Examples of relevant subjects include sports rehabilitation, sports therapy, human biology, biomedical sciences, anatomy, physiology.
Evidenced study in the area of human anatomy and physiology is required.
In addition to academic qualification, applicants must demonstrate a commitment to and knowledge of Physiotherapy as a career via their personal statement.
Applicants should discuss their motivation for pursuing a career in Physiotherapy and relate this to the way in which their experiences (e.g.
volunteering or shadowing a range of Physiotherapists) have informed their motivation to study Physiotherapy and their awareness of the scope of Physiotherapy practice.
There will be a selection interview and applicants to the programme should meet the HCPC requirement to be  ‘fit to practice’ through having  good health and good character.
Any spent or unspent convictions may affect the ability of the applicant to gain a satisfactory PVG check, or gain registration with the Health and Care Professions Council (a requirement to work as a physiotherapist in the UK after graduating).
The Edinburgh Napier University terms and conditions of  PVG checks and the policy for Applicants with Declared Criminal Convictions can be found here .
Successful applicants will be required to become student members of the Chartered Society of Physiotherapy on joining the programme.
A degree in Physiotherapy from Edinburgh Napier University offers a fulfilling and versatile career path as a Physiotherapist with opportunities to make a significant impact on individuals' lives across various settings and specialties.
The course aims to develop Physiotherapists who are skilled in their profession, with a strong professional identity and the ability to work in effective collaboration with other disciplines to put service users at the centre of their care.
You’ll be enabled to work effectively in a range of settings from traditional environments to contemporary integrated health and social care teams, third sector organisations, private providers, or performance sports, for example.
A Physiotherapist helps patients manage pain, improve movement, and enhance physical function through a variety of therapeutic techniques.
Their primary goal is to restore, maintain, and maximize the patient’s physical strength, function, motion, and overall well-being.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/graduate-certificate-practice-learning-(social-services)-undergraduate-parttime:
This programme will develop your understanding of practice education in a variety of social services settings and your ability to apply the professional skills and techniques associated with practice education in social work.
Please complete your application by clicking on the button on this webpage.
When your application has been received and verified, you will be sent an employer endorsement form.
Please ask your employer to complete and sign this form so that you can return it to the Admissions Team.
The closing date for this course is the 31st October 2025.
Feb
Returning to university was daunting but I am finding the course very practical & useful.
Staff are so friendly; they understand the pressures Social Workers face and provide excellent support for us.
Claire Lindsay
Social Worker, Practice Learning (Social Services) Student
The main aim of the programme is to provide an integrated course of knowledge, skills and values to equip you to work effectively as a social work practice educator.
You will:
On successfully completing this programme, you will obtain a Graduate Certificate at SCQF Level 10.
The programme has been developed in accordance with the Rules and Requirements for Specialist Training for Social Service Workers Scotland (2005) and the Standards for Practice Learning Qualifications at SCQF Level 10.
Successful entrants are funded through their employer.
The programme consists of three modules, which need to be undertaken in sequence.
The first two are taught modules, while the final module consists of a supervised, assessed student placement.
Module 1: Creating, Supporting and Evaluating Learning Opportunities in Practice Settings
Module 1 will have a specific focus on establishing effective working relationships to support learning as part of a wider interprofessional context.
You will consider how to lead the creation of a positive learning culture and environment that supports your own and others’ learning and, more particularly, how you will support and create learning opportunities for a social work student.
You will be able to reflect on your own experiences as a learner, while being introduced to theoretical approaches to adult learning.
Social work values and the Scottish Social Services Council’s Codes of Practice will underpin all your learning, as you consider ethical practice in the practice educator role.
The teaching materials and linked assessments will give you an opportunity to start preparing for the supervised practice learning placement.
Module 2: Supervising and Assessing Social Work Students in Practice Placements
Module 2 focuses on the supervision and assessment of social work students in practice placements.
You will consider how you can support students to maximise their individual potential within the context of legislation, policy and guidance relevant to the setting.
You will learn about assessment frameworks and strategies to ensure that the assessment of students is fair and based on solid evidence, linked to the Standards in Social Work Education.
You will consider how you can involve people receiving services and carers in these processes.
Alongside this, you will reflect on your own knowledge base and how you will support students in making links between theory and practice.
The role of supervision in supporting students will be explored and you will prepare for the challenges of working with students who fail to meet the required standards.
Module 3: Supervised Social Work Practice Learning Placement
Module 3 is a formally assessed supervised practice placement where you will bring all of your learning together in practice to supervise a social work student, in your role as a trainee practice educator.
You will be supported and assessed throughout by an experienced practice assessor.
You will provide a placement to a social work student from Edinburgh Napier University or from another university in Scotland.
This will be arranged in conjunction with our Placement Co-ordinator.
As social work placement dates vary across different universities, your completion of the GCPL programme may be anywhere between January and June in the year following your start date.
Before you commence your studies, you will be provided with an induction to the University.
You will study on a part-time basis.
Modules 1 and 2 consist of four days of taught sessions, and Module 3 consists of the student placement, a two-hour online introduction and two ‘recall days’ at the University.
Each module is equivalent to 200 hours of study therefore you will be expected to engage in guided and self-directed study before and after the taught sessions.
The programme uses a blended approach to learning, teaching and assessment.
As well as spending time on campus engaged in group-based learning, you will also be expected to be proactive in identifying and accessing relevant literature and other learning resources.
You will be encouraged to identify and utilise your transferable skills and knowledge throughout the programme and will be supported in this through scenario-based learning, group work, role play and problem-based learning.
For Modules 1 and 2, you will be assessed on your completion of a 1500-word reflective assignment.
For Module 3, you will be supported and assessed by a practice assessor who will observe you in supervision with the student on two occasions and complete a report at the end of the placement.
At the end of the programme, you will submit a portfolio of evidence gathered during the placement consisting of feedback from the social work student and colleagues, feedback from the two observed supervision sessions with the student, the practice assessor's report and a 1500-word reflective assignment.
The programme consists of three modules, (see under 'Course Details' opposite).
These need to be undertaken in sequence.
What are the entry requirements for Practice Learning (Social Services)?
If you want to get more information on the admission process, please get in touch with the admissions team by submitting an enquiry form above.
To enter this programme, applicants must normally have :
By gaining a Graduate Certificate in Practice Learning at Edinburgh Napier University, you will have a qualification that is endorsed by local stakeholders.
This qualification is often seen as a step towards middle management roles, as you will develop your supervision and management skills.
You will not only be well-placed professionally but will have a suite of highly transferable skills such as communication, reflective practice, ethical decision making, collaboration, problem solving and time management, that can take your career to new heights in a variety of health and social care settings.
A Practice Educator typically works within the field of social work or healthcare.
Their primary responsibility is to support and supervise students or newly qualified professionals during their practical placements or probationary periods.
Practice Educators play a crucial role in the development of future professionals, helping them bridge the gap between theory and practice and preparing them for successful careers in their chosen field.
Daily tasks and responsibilities in typical practice education roles include:

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/mph-public-health-postgraduate-full-time:
This programme aims to develop your interest in, and knowledge and understanding of, Public Health Theory and Practice in a Global context.
By global health we mean health issues impacting across the world including locally, regionally and nationally in Scotland and the UK.
The programme is relevant to UK and international students aiming to develop careers within public health as well as for those wishing to promote the health of the public as part of their current professional role.
The programme takes a practical and applied approach and will equip you with the relevant transferable academic skills, professional/practical skills and knowledge to practice in a manner that achieves the purpose of public health i.e., dealing with pandemics, epidemics, reducing health inequalities and prolonging life through the implementation of a broad range of interventions to improve public health outcomes.
This program is suitable for all professionals who may have a busy working schedule, teaching materials are available and easily accessible to students at any time and live classes are recorded.
Farah-Nelhy Momprevil
MPH Master of Public Health student
The programme has been designed to be relevant to UK and international students aiming to develop careers within public health as well as for those wishing to promote the health of the public as part of their current professional role.
Principles and Theory of Public Health for Health Improvement (20credits) and Applied Epidemiology (20 credits)
Leadership and collaborative working in Public Health (20 credits) and Contemporary Global Issues in Public Health (40 credits
Contemporary Global Issues in Public health (Continued from Tri 3)
Research Methods (20 credits)
Dissertation (60 credits over 2 Trimesters)
The programme is also being offered as a fully online/distance learning programme as part of our Global Online suite of programmes.
Dr Janette Pow is Programme Lead for the MPH.
Janette has been a lecturer within the School of Health and Social Care for 12 years.
Her teaching and research interests are in public health, young people’s health and wellbeing, health improvement evaluation and complex interventions.
Janette has published extensively in peer reviewed Journals in this area.
As well as being a reviewer for a number of healthcare journals she is reviewer/assessor for Carnegie Trust, HISES and NIHR.
She was also recently elected to the editorial board for the Scottish University Press.
Dr Martin Sharp is Deputy Programme Lead for the MPH and Research Degrees Lead for the School of Health and Social Care.
Martin is an experienced academic, lecturing in endocrinology, public health and epidemiology.
His research interests centre around the endocrine reactivity to social defeat, female reproductive health (precocious puberty/contraception//menopause), and most aspects of social epidemiology.
Martin has published extensively in peer reviewed journals, is reviewer for high impact endocrine journals, external examiner, and grant reviewer.
Dr Yvonne Greig has been a midwife for over 30 years.
She is passionate about maternal, fetal and public health issues and has a particular interest in developing professional practice and optimising maternal health for those who live with obesity.
Yvonne has delivered education to communities in Kenya, East Africa as part of the World Millennium Goal project to improve maternal health and in turn population health where both maternal and infant mortality are high.
Yvonne has also been advisor to the British University of Egypt and has supported colleagues in Athens to develop a midwifery BSc programme.
She joined Edinburgh Napier in January 2021 having previously combined academic and clinical work.
She looks forward to supporting you during your MPH programme.
Dr Andrew Maine is a lecturer and researcher.
He is also responsible for mentoring and supporting early career researchers within School of Health and Social Care.
Dr Maine lecturers on the Bachelor of Learning Disability Nursing programme at Edinburgh Napier University.
His areas of research/teaching expertise include critical perspectives of learning disability nursing, systematic reviews, and quantitative methodological approaches.
Dr Mary Abboah-Offei is a lecturer, researcher, and a nurse by profession.
Mary’s teaching and research interests are in global health, quality improvement in health and social care, health and wellbeing across the lifespan, palliative care and developing and evaluating complex interventions using the Medical Research Councils’ framework, with a particular interest in person-centred interventions.
Mary also has expertise in systematic, intervention and policy reviews, with special interest in policy issues relating to early childhood development in the context of the Nurturing Care Framework.
Mary has published in peer reviewed Journals in the areas of expertise mentioned and has been a reviewer for a number of journals including reviewing a grant application for NIHR.
Summative assignments take the form of authentic assessments and include editorials, literature review protocols, posters and presentations and briefing documents
This module aims to enable you to critically appreciate the interdependencies between public health policy drivers (including epidemiological evidence and other public health intelligence information) and the varied dimensions of resultant health policy responses; critically explore the principles, practice and context of epidemiological research applications in public health policy and intervention contexts; critically evaluate aspects of the knowledge transfer process in relation to public health policy formation, including the creation, organisation, function and diffusion of public health responses.
This module aims to examine contemporary global health issues as identified by the World Health Organization (WHO 2020).
Its aim is to equip you to develop critical understanding and in-depth knowledge of the issues that impact on global health.
You will critically examine the evidence that may inform solutions to global health challenges by applying the principles of public health policy.
Issues pertaining to health practice, the law and related human and equality rights will be critically examined to explore how they impact on both individuals and communities with respect to particular health needs.
Our focus on public health issues will encompass both communicable and non-communicable diseases; from a primary, secondary and tertiary prevention perspective.
Examples of topics include HIV, COVID, obesity, drug and alcohol addiction, and domestic violence.
For communicable diseases we will also include public health practices in surveillance, infection control and outbreak management.
We will also explore examples of the public health impact of disasters on communities and a range of associated public health responses to the management of these.
Throughout this module you will review the role of public healthcare professionals as part of a wider disciplinary team and critically analyse the value of the wider team(s) considering how this collaborative approach can positively impact on public health issues in a variety of situations.
The master?s dissertation is a cumulation of your learning and knowledge gained from undertaking the modules during your master?s journey to independently carry out a piece of research, either through conducting a literature review or piece of original primary research (small scale study) or the writing of a substantial research proposal (that can potentially be taken forward for doctoral study) on a topic aligned to public health and your research interestsModule Content: Skills resources online via Moodle• How to choose your research topic and develop an original research question (L01)• How to choose an appropriate and feasible research design in order to answer your research question?
(LO1)• How to develop a literature search strategy (L02)• Critical appraisal of literature using standardized tools (L02)• How to navigate ethical and research governance issues (LO3) • Methods of data collection/extraction (L04) • Analysis and synthesis of data (L04) • Writing up your project (L05)
This module aims to enhance your knowledge and understanding in relation to the theories and models of leadership and management relevant to public health.
You will explore theories of leadership, collaboration and partnership and their implications for health improvement in public health settings.
Different public health contexts including community development, health promotion projects, health services and emergency planning will be explored.
You will reflect on learning needs in relation to skills for collaborative leadership for service improvement.
You will also critically consider other models for planning, implementing, leading and evaluating public health projects in a range of contexts.
This module aims to enhance your knowledge and understanding in relation to the key principles and theories underpinning public health and how these apply to public health practice for health improvement.
This will include an overview of the history of public health and the current theoretical frameworks.
The principles of health needs assessment will be examined.
The importance of public health policies as well as factors influencing the formulation of public health policies will be explored.
Additionally, you will critically explore the impact of social determinants of health and wellbeing and reflect upon the extent to which public health practice is evidence based.
The module aims to enable you to critically appreciate the value of empirical literature, research design and data interpretation, relating to public health.
The module will provide further knowledge on the critical appraisal of evidence from published literature, qualitative and quantitative research methodologies, structured literature reviewing, ethics, data collection and analysis.
The intention is for you to be able to discriminate between different research methodologies suitable to answer specific pertinent public health questions
What are the entry requirements for Public Health?
To apply you will need a Bachelor (Honours) Degree at 2:2 or above in a Health or Health Sciences related subject.
Other qualifications/experience which demonstrate through our recognition of prior learning process that you have appropriate knowledge and skills may be considered on an individual basis.
Can I get admission into Public Health based on my working experience in this sector?
The English Language requirements for this programme are IELTS (Academic) with an overall score of 6.5 with no individual component score of less than 6.5.
By studying public health at Edinburgh Napier University, you will gain the skills and practical knowledge to work in public health at local, national and global level.
The course will prepare you for a range of public health roles as well as doctoral level study.
A Master of public health offers you the opportunity to progress in your current health related field of practice as part of the wider public health workforce or allow you to progress in a core public health role i.e., public health intelligence analyst, public health practitioner, public health research assistant or epidemiologist.
You will become an excellent communicator, and also hone your teamworking and interpersonal skills.
If you have an interest in improving public health and enjoy working with other people, then this might be the right course for you.
As an epidemiologist you will have strong report writing, analytical and communication skills, with the ability to collect and analyse complex data.
You will be responsible for understanding how disease is spread and the risk it poses to the public.
You will create strategy to reduce spread and control the spread of disease and current viral outbreaks.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/master-of-public-health:
Enrolling to the Master of Public Health program was one of the best decisions for my career plan.
I received great support from academics; they are always available to respond to my enquiry.
The programme is being offered as a fully online/distance learning programme as part of our Global Online suite of programmes.
The programme is offered in a part time study mode (two years).
All modules on this programme are compulsory and must be taken as per the structure below to allow completion in two years.
If you defer from this structure, you will extend your length of study.
Part Time 2 Years
Year 1 Tri 2: Principles and Theory of Public Health for Health Improvement (20credits) and Applied Epidemiology (20 credits)
Year 1 Tri 3: Leadership and collaborative working in Public Health (20 credits) and Contemporary Global Issues in Public Health (40 credits)
Year 1 Tri 1: Contemporary Global Issues in Public health (Continued from Tri 3)
Year 2 Tri 2: Research Methods (20 credits)
Year 2 Tri 3 and Tri 1: Dissertation (60 credits over 2 Trimesters)
The Global Online Programme is delivered fully online and is supported with Moodle the virtual learning platform.
The virtual learning environment is facilitated and moderated by academic experts in the field of study thus providing opportunities for you to critique and synthesise research evidence which can then be critically explored in the context of International public health practice.
The programme adopts an authentic approach with emphasis on meeting real-world challenges such as, health improvement initiatives and complex interventions, multi/interdisciplinary working with a strong focus on implementation and evaluation for health improvement.
This aims to support future practice that is underpinned by a sound understanding of relevant theory and evidence-based knowledge

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/health-and-social-care/fiona-maclean:
Occupational therapy is a profession which seeks to understand the importance of how the way(s) in which we occupy our time, influences our health and well-being.
Occupation refers to the everyday activities we all carry out as individuals, as part of families, groups and communities that bring meaning and purpose to life.
It includes all the things we need to do (for example getting up, washed, and dressed), want to do (perhaps ride a bike, read a book, play sport) or are expected to do (caring responsibilities, employment etc.).
As a result, occupational therapy is not (only) about responding to the needs of people who live with long-term conditions, disability and/or disadvantage(s) and inequality.
Occupation is an everyday part of all our lives and consequently, the profession contributes towards an increasingly important role in health promotion and disease prevention.
Can you give some examples of simple interventions that help people in their day-to-day lives?
I think one of the most important interventions or contribution occupational therapists can offer in our everyday lives is to understand and value how we can each find occupational balance.
In other words, to balance those activities we need to do, or are expected to do, with those occupations that can allow us to develop, thrive and/or to flourish.
It is not always easy to value and prioritise the occupations we want to do, for example singing in a choir, supporting, or playing for our local football team, being creative.
Yet it is hugely important that we do make space for those activities that can help maintain and sustain health and well-being, which also can offer purpose to lives.
Variation in what we do as well as how much time we spend doing different occupations or activities is all extremely important.
Whilst this might sound simple in practice, for lots of different reasons, balancing multiple occupations can be extremely challenging.
Can you share one of your most rewarding experiences as an occupational therapist?
I have been extremely fortunate in that I have very much enjoyed my career as an occupational therapist, which has also given me the opportunity to meet and work with so many talented and incredible people.
My area of practice, including research, has been with older people and their generosity and willingness to share with me their experiences of later life has always inspired me.
However, I think the most rewarding experience of my career has always been to work with occupational therapy students.
I consider it a privilege to be able to contribute to occupational therapy education, and to watch our students learn, grow and to go on and make a positive difference to the lives of people, across communities, in a diverse range of settings and countries.
Watching our students graduate every year is always a special moment and it is something that has become even more special to me as I grow older.
Do you think the sector has changed much since you did your original training?
Has technology changed the field?
Where do I begin….
when I first started email was not a ‘thing’ (sometimes I wish it was still not a ‘thing’ 😊) and the first mobile phone I ever used was as part of a project grant in 1993!
So yes, things have changed greatly since I graduated and of course technology has advanced rapidly.
The opportunities that now exist to adopt technologies that can be used to support independent living is quite incredible, including their versatility.
And of course, that is hugely exciting as well as challenging at times to ensure we as a profession keep up with technological advances, recognising their wider potential benefit and application to people.
However, that is something we are good at and there are multiple examples of how and in what way occupational therapists contribute to the design and, importantly, application of technological solutions.
However, the one constant throughout my career has been change, and as a profession, we seem to do positive change extremely well.
Recognising the strengths and benefits of research, policy and wider developments that can be harnessed for the benefit of those we work with.
What are you excited about with the new course?
Pretty much everything!
I am looking forward to working with my colleagues, Dr Dawn Drury, and Dr Julia Sterman.
They each bring a unique skill set, vast experience, and deep commitment to our MSc Occupational Therapy (Pre-Reg) degree, which aligns with and complements our programme aims.
We make a great team!
In addition, I am excited about delivering our revised curriculum and working with inter-disciplinary colleagues such as physiotherapy and social work, including wider colleagues from across the School of Health Sciences and indeed Edinburgh Napier University generally.
There is a lot to learn, and I enjoy learning together.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/health-and-social-care/jana-rek:
We sat down with Dr Jana Rek (nee Králová), to discuss the Master of Social Work Programme at Edinburgh Napier University, and how Social Workers make a difference, the challenges they face and the rewards they get working in this field.
What does social work mean to you?
Social Work to me, is not just a profession; social work is my way of life.
I hold a fundamental belief that every human being is worthy.
Worthy of a decent life, protection and worthy of chances to achieve their human potential to its fullest capacity, regardless of their origin or circumstances.
Famously, Carl R.
Rogers (1967, p.
283), refers to Unconditional Positive Regard, as: “An atmosphere which simply demonstrates ‘I care’; not ‘I care for you if you behave thus and so.’” Social work practitioners are faced daily with profound changes and challenges which require not only a solid professional skill set, relevant evidence and practice informed knowledge, but also, a certain amount of flexibility and imagination to respond effectively to situations arising.
As we have seen in the recent past, some such situations are unpredictable and on an unprecedented scale.
Thus, we aim to equip our graduates with skills, knowledge and practice learning which will enable them to effectively respond to changes and challenges of contemporary social work.
How do social workers make a difference in people’s lives?
The main way of finding out what help people need is getting to know them really well.
To know and understand what challenges they face, what their hopes and aspirations are, what they want for their lives, and what their strengths and skills are that we can build on.
It’s about thinking together with people so they can make changes to their lives that will make a positive difference.
Sometimes being a social worker means making decisions around people’s lives, such as if they need protection from quite significant forms of harm to themselves or others.
So that might mean admitting somebody to hospital against their wishes for example, or whether a child needs to be looked after by someone other than their parents.
These decisions will have major implications for people’s lives on a long-term basis.
But other times it can be supporting people, with really simple, practical help, like assisting someone to make a phone call, filling out forms, or financial help to help them through a difficult time.
Often this necessitates making real connections with the other people in their lives, their friends and family, or other support people or community services.
A social worker is a person who can put the pieces of the jigsaw together and see a person as a whole in the context of their environment and within the systemic structures.
Social workers will work with some of the most marginalised, excluded and vulnerable people in our society.
It is for this reason that it is crucial we follow The Codes of Practice for Social Service Workers and Employers, which set out the behaviours and values expected of social service workers and their employers by Scottish Social Services Council (SSSC) with which you must register upon commencing your studies.
You may wish to explore the codes here .
What have you found most rewarding during your social work training?
For me, the experiences from practice placements were invaluable.
Working with people receiving services and carers provided me an opportunity to develop not only my professional identity as a social worker, but also gave me a range of learning opportunities.
These have offered fertile ground for further development of my interpersonal and communication skills.
My knowledge and application of assessment methods and appreciation of daily experiences of social work practice.
No one day is the same in social work.
You are challenged; intellectually, professionally, mentally as well as physically.
Practice placements are apart from being extremely rewarding are also particularly demanding, which is why it is very important to carefully consider your personal circumstances and environment before embarking on this programme, so that you can achieve your potential to its fullest capacity.
Why should prospective candidates join this new Social Work programme in ENU?
One of the real strengths of our master's in social work programme is that in all of the classes we will be making connections between theoretical knowledge and practice.
To integrate social work theory and practice we use the Simulation and Clinical Skills Centre comprising fantastic resources, with the real hospital wards and the SHELTER (Simulated Home Environment for Learning, Teaching and Research) – it really is like someone’s home.
It’s a flexible space so we can change it to make it really welcoming or really unwelcoming, and we can practise knocking on somebody’s door, the door being answered - or not answered - and what you do next.
Students can practise all sorts of difference scenarios for example, what it’s like to be welcomed into somebody’s living room, to be faced with all the sights and sounds and smells, what you do if they’ve left the television on and it’s loud, how you go about deciding whether to chat in the living room or the kitchen, how you can act respectfully in someone else’s home.
I am proud to say that graduates of Edinburgh Napier University Master of Social Work Programme can respond to changes and challenges of contemporary social work.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/health-and-social-care/colin-mclelland:
We sat down to have a chat with Colin McLelland about the rewards of studying Physiotherapy, how technology is changing the field and about the most exciting aspects of the programme.
It is very rewarding to be able to work that closely with people and to be able to help them work towards achieving what they hope to achieve.
That’s very fulfilling.
Work is diverse and having the ability to work in a different environment and with people with a wide range of different clinical problems is very rewarding and diverse.
This includes people with neurological problems, people with respiratory problems, people with musculoskeletal problems and with a mixture of many complex issues.
I find every person I work with I find rewarding.
Because they come with an issue and I’ve just got to find out what it is, how I am going to help and the cause.
I do a lot of prevention, a lot of screening, and I think being able to prevent things from happening is a great reward.
I also work a lot with sport, so being able to work with people who have a goal or an ambition, I get to get them to that goal or ambition.
So I’ve seen some horrific injuries but we’ve been able to go through that process together, sometimes working seven days a week, to get them to hit their goals.
Even after their career goes by, you’ve created that relationship and understanding and you’ve educated them and then they educate other people.
Someone’s goal might be to run a marathon or it might be to win the world cup, but equally it might be that all they want to do is be able to get off the toilet and get to the couch without any pain.
They are the specific goals to the individual and that's what is important.
It’s just creating what they want, and that goes back to the person-centred.
I really enjoy that.
I find every time I do it rewarding.
I think that’s why you do the job.
Every experience is different.
How has technology changed the field since your training?
There are lots of opportunities to use technology within physiotherapy practice, such as directing patients to APPs for education or promotion of physical activity or using video conferencing facilities to connect with patients in remote areas.
The pandemic has allowed us to embrace this further and we have embedded this into the programme, developing Physiotherapists for now and the future.
However, a lot of the key, core skills are the same.
It’s about problem solving, it’s about being analytical, it’s being able to analyse movement.
Technology comes and goes, and there are certain fashions that come in and out of physiotherapy, but those core skills have not really changed.
Communicate, show care and compassion, and if you don’t do that then you’ve lost it.
It’s those problem solving skills and the game that you play to try and figure it out.
I worked for Hibernian Football Club, where we are able to treat from initial injury all the way through to return of play.
I am a great believer that it is not the amount of resources that you have available but how you use them and makes them appropriate to that individual.
Most of our job is educating the patient.
It’s about understanding how you’re going to prevent the issue from happening again in the future.
Even though I work in private practice, I don’t really want to see patients coming back over and over again.
I want them to go away and understand and then not have that issue again.
Can you describe the different fields that physios can work in?
Physiotherapists can work in acute settings, and that could be working in a hospital, in an intensive care unit, or working in a ward setting.
They can also work in rehab setting or working with people with more long-term health conditions.
They can also work in community settings, going into people’s homes and working with them.
We work in the NHS or in private practice, in an outpatient clinic setting, or in a sports setting.
And they’ll be working with people with a range of problems.
You can work in industry, you can work in research, you can work in education.
And you’re also working with the whole population from babies right up to the elderly.
It’s the whole range.
Indeed our placements cover these wide and diverse settings allowing our students to have a very well balanced and employable portfolio.
This also includes working with the third sector, working with charities, the military and professional sports teams.
There are so many opportunities.
The job is diverse.
What are you most excited about with this new course?
We started with that blank canvas.
Being able to listen to and respond to the needs of service users, practitioners, managers, and to be able to look at things differently and try to be innovative in our approach.
We want our graduates to be able to push boundaries, look at things differently, and have a big role in taking the profession forward.
It’s exciting to start something new without the constraints of what was already there.
That’s a real strength of this programme is that we’re able to develop it with other professions throughout the programme learning key skills together.
We’re preparing graduates to go into that work force having a really good understanding of their colleagues’ professional roles and boundaries.
It’s not just an add-on at the end.
The Simulation and Clinical Skills Centre gives us lots of opportunity to give the graduates real practical, hands-on experience.
They’ll be able to work with simulated patients, work with the nursing programme, and have a simulated ward set-up.
We can give graduates a real range of different experiences, which I think will be really exciting about this programme.
Our teaching team is really passionate about developing future colleagues because that’s what they are.
Being able to influence someone to go out and do a job that we all love, that’s what we’re really looking forward to.
And working together in this integrated approach is fantastic.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/our-schools/the-school-of-health-and-social-care/simulation-and-clinical-skills-centre:
Our centre has a dedicated team on hand to help you perfect your skills and to answer any questions you may have.
Our teaching associates who work between clinical practice and the university are always on hand to help you brush up on your skills.
Our technical team includes experts in simulation technology and experienced medical makeup artists who, where appropriate, will design and create various realistic wounds and lacerations on mannequins and simulated patients to make your learning as lifelike as possible.
Both teams work together to create authentic  scenarios and simulated environments to maximise your learning potential.
As a team we're dedicated to supporting you so you can have a student experience which will give you confidence and prepare you as fully as possible for practice.
1.33
Follow us on social media to stay up to date on everything that is happening at the Simulation and Clinical Skills Centre.
You can also follow us on Facebook and Instagram.
Sighthill Court Edinburgh EH11 4BN
0131 455 3206
scsc@napier.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/our-schools/the-school-of-health-and-social-care/simulation-and-clinical-skills-centre/undergraduate-students:
I returned to adult nursing after having a year off and I doubted that I could pass my assessments.
One of the teaching associates gave me so much support that I passed all my exams.
-Michele Thomson, 3rd Year Adult Nursing Student
We have simulated patients who volunteer with us and  give you the chance to practise skills on new people with  different backgrounds, so you can learn how to use your  techniques on members of the public beyond your  classmates.
In your second and third years you will regularly spend class time with simulated patients, learning how to combine the communication and compassionate care skills we teach you with the practical requirements of treating patients such as taking blood pressure and administering controlled drugs.
Our technical team can advise on the most suitable setting for your project and assist with the use of our specialist equipment.
They are also experienced medical makeup artists and can create realistic injuries including wounds, lacerations, burns and bruising.
All of our rooms are versatile and can be set up to recreate other environments including a birthing suite, outpatient department, community setting, GP surgery and theatre recovery room.
We also have a large locker room, changing facilities and reception area and nurses station.
Your journey in the Simulation and Clinical Skills Centre will begin in the first two weeks of your programme, preparing you for your first steps into clinical practice as a student.
Initially you will focus on the essentials of hand hygiene, basic CPR and manual handling.
You will learn basic techniques that you can perfect in the safety of the centre and will focus on skills which involve obtaining and recording patient observations.
These will include taking blood pressures, temperatures and administering medicines.
Over the next two years we will take you from these simple observations to teaching you to do more thorough assessments of patients, and teach you how to manage more complex scenarios.
You will move away from using our smaller pieces of equipment such as simulated mannequin arms, onto our specialised mannequins and using our bank of simulated patients.
Student midwives will have the unique opportunity to benefit from practicing with Noelle, our electronic mannequin that simulates childbirth, as well as our mobile birthing pool, giving you the opportunity to practice the practical aspects of labour in a safe environment.
Third year
Third year is all about preparing you to take your first steps as a qualified practitioner.
You will learn how to deal with complex scenarios including how to manage decision-making, prioritising, team-work and delegating.
Simulated patients will be used more frequently to challenge your skills and build your confidence in applying your theory to practice.
This way, when you're on your first day in your new job, you're ready to hit the ground running.
0:50

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/health-and-social-care/1996---2026:
Celebrating 30 years of excellence, innovation and enterprise in Health and Social Care
In 1996, The School of Health and Social Care at Edinburgh Napier was formed out of the merger of the Lothian College of Health Studies and the Scottish Border College of Nursing.
In the subsequent three decades, the School has established itself as the foundational career stepping stone for tens of thousands of nurses, midwives,  and allied health professionals, and social workers.
We remain the only University in Scotland to offer pre-registration training in all four nursing specialisms (adult, child, mental health and Learning Disabilities) and midwifery, as well as training allied health professionals in Occupational Therapy and Physiotherapy, and Social Workers.
For a multi-disciplinary health and care profession, this means we have a unique environment for the health and social work professionals of tomorrow to learn.
Edinburgh Napier has been rated #1 University in Edinburgh for student satisfaction every year since 2020 in the annual National Student Survey and in the School of health and Social Care we are proud of our record in supporting all students: students with specific learning support needs, mature students retraining, men moving into nursing, or students from a care background.
Our training is second to none:
Throughout the past three decades we have continually innovated to ensure students are at the forefront of their profession; with research centres delivering internationally recognised research in cardiovascular care and mental health practice, policy and law; providing insight and support into the use of technology in clinical care settings; and offering ongoing professional development for practitioners - such as our PG Certificate in Transitional and Specialist Neonatal Care.
In the academic year spanning our 30th anniversary we look forward to welcoming many graduates, professionals, and applicants onto our campus to learn more about our courses, our research, and our track record.
Please bookmark this page, or use the url napier.ac.uk/SchoolofHealthandSocialCare , to visit us often and keep up to date with events and opportunities to engage with our staff and students throughout the 2025-26 academic year.
A taste of Upcoming Events
Healthcare Day (with University of St Andrews, University of Stirling, Queen Margaret University) - 4 September
Scottish Learning Disabilities Nursing Week – commencing 8 September
Open Day at Sighthill – Saturday 20 September
Professorial Talk by Dr Iain Atherton – 7 October
Open Day at Sighthill – Saturday 1 November

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/research-search/school-centre-area/school-of-health-and-social-care:
Our Research Centres create and stimulate high-quality knowledge exchange and innovation that benefits the social, cultural and economic life of the society we serve.
Across our Schools, our Research Centres bring together academic staff, students and our external partner organisations in a united mission to solve real-world problems, influence policy, and deliver positive impact on a local, national and global scale.
Our newest research centre, the Centre for Creative and Social Informatics explores the complex relationships between people, communities, organisations, and technology, employing diverse methods such as speculative design, social media analysis, and physiological data.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/llb--llb-hons-law-undergraduate-fulltime:
Fully accredited by the Law Society of Scotland , our friendly and open student experience is what makes us stand out from other universities.
The LLB will enable you to apply for the Diploma in Legal Practice (also known as PEAT 1), the next step on the way to becoming a qualified solicitor or advocate in Scotland.
The LLB is an excellent qualification if you wish to work in other professions, particularly those related to business and finance.
In fourth year there is a range of optional law subjects, such as Sports Law, enabling you to reflect on the function of law in a wider economic, political, international and social context.
We have a 100% satisfaction rate for our LLB (Hons) Law course (National Student Survey, 2023).
We are a top 10 UK modern university for Law (The Guardian Good University Guide 2022, 2023, 2024).
A top 10 UK modern university for Law (Complete University Guide, 2025)
M114
"The staff are extremely supportive.
They always check in with you.
We even got support with CV writing, which was great.
We have a great community feel on the Law Degrees at Edinburgh Napier."
Chris Enderby
Former LLB (Hons) Law student
Our course gives you a broad foundation in the law of Scotland.
In the first three years you study all the subjects specified by the Law Society of Scotland to enable you to seek qualification as a solicitor.
In fourth year, there is a range of optional law subjects, and you'll also write a dissertation on a legal topic of your choice.
Contemporary legal professionals must be business-orientated.
Our LLB lets you choose a number of business-related non-law modules, such as Financial Accounting or Exploring Entrepreneurship.
You may also study a language.
The LLB is a full-time course.
You may graduate with an LLB Ordinary degree after three years or an LLB Honours degree after four years.
You'll learn by a variety of teaching methods including lectures and tutorials, and also through interactive practice sessions and independent study.
This degree will improve your communication, research, problem-solving and presentational skills.
Emphasis on giving legal advice and applied learning make student work place ready when they leave.
Opportunity to gain experience through assisting in our student run law clinic.
In year 3 there is an opportunity to study abroad, and we have increasing numbers taking this option – there are 4 universities that we are partnered with, and this can be done through Turing and ISEP (US & Australia).
What are the entry requirements for Law?
*Alternative literary subjects include: Government & Politics, History, Latin, Law, Modern Studies, Philosophy, Geography, Psychology, Sociology, RMPS.
ESOL can be considered at grade A.
Advanced entry is not available for this course.
By studying law at Edinburgh Napier University, you will acquire expertise in a wide range of Scots Law subjects, and be well on your way to gaining the necessary qualifications to become a solicitor.
Completion of the LLB (Ordinary or Honours) is stage one of qualifying as a solicitor in Scotland.
Stage two is the Diploma in Professional Legal Practice.
The DLP is a vocationally orientated course designed to prepare you for Stage 3, a two-year traineeship with a law firm or other body employing solicitors such as a Local Authority.
The legal profession is just one option open to you once you have your LLB.
You may also want to go on to work in sectors such as business, finance and government.
You will be an excellent communicator, with strong debating, analytical, writing and presentation skills.
If you are a critical thinker and keen problem solver, then this might be the right course for you.
As a government policy advisor, you will give expert advice, through analysis, to the government to allow them to make informed decisions on a range of issues.
You will have excellent communication, analytical and problem-solving skills.
You will work with a range of stakeholders across different government departments and may also work with government legal advisors.
• Policy analysis • Research • Presenting your findings • Legal analysis • Collaborating with stakeholders • Report writing

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/llb-law-graduate-entry-undergraduate-fulltime:
This course gives you a broad foundation in the law of Scotland and our open student experience is what makes us stand out from other universities.
Fully accredited by the Law Society of Scotland , the LLB will enable you to apply for the Diploma in Legal Practice (also known as PEAT 1), the next step on the way to becoming a qualified solicitor or advocate in Scotland.
The LLB is also an excellent qualification if you wish to work in other professions, particularly those related to business and finance.
M100
This course gives you a broad foundation in the law of Scotland.
Over the course of two years, you'll study all the subjects specified by the Law Society of Scotland to enable you to seek qualification as a solicitor.
In the second year you will also choose two from a range of option modules.
This degree will improve your communication, research, problem-solving and presentation skills.
Emphasis on giving legal advice and applied learning to make students work place ready when they leave.
What are the entry requirements for LLB?
To apply, you'll need an ordinary or honours undergraduate degree.
To check the equivalence of your qualification or eligibility to apply with international qualifications, please submit an enquiry or email the Undergraduate Admissions team on ugadmissions@napier.ac.uk.
Please note this course is not eligible for SAAS funding.
Stage two is the Diploma in Legal Practice (DLP) also known as ‘Professional Education and Training Stage 1 (PEAT 1) currently offered by six universities in Scotland.
Places on the DLP are allocated according to marks achieved in compulsory modules, typically taken in years 1-3 of the LLB.
The DLP is a vocationally orientated course designed to prepare students for stage three (PEAT 2, also known as the traineeship).
Law is a competitive profession and completion of the DLP is no guarantee of a traineeship.
Possession of a prior Honours degree is desirable.
Many Law students choose not to enter the legal profession, but use their LLB as a stepping-stone into other professions, particularly banking, finance, the civil service, teaching and the police.
Some go on to further study or go into business.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/our-schools/the-business-school/our-research/family-law-research-centre:
Researchers ¦ Research Themes ¦ Publications ¦ Presentations ¦ Events ¦ Media ¦ Blog ¦ Get in touch ¦ History
2:40
We see ourselves as contributing to the understanding and development of Scots law and policy through collaborative and multi-disciplinary work, in Scotland and beyond, to bring about positive change.
We aim to engage in a meaningful way with our stakeholders: academics, legal professionals, law- and policy-makers, third sector organisations, and the people impacted by Child and Family Law.
We have a wide range of expertise including, though not limited to, the following research themes:
We welcome collaboration with those involved in various aspects of family law.
This could be in terms of research, or with our students studying on the LLB, for example such as work-based learning opportunities, live projects, internships and recruitment.
Our doctoral students contribute towards the research culture and reputation of Centre and the Law Subject Group.
We develop researchers of the future who will bring critical thinking to the development of theory and practice in our fields of expertise.
Please email Dr Rob Clucas ( r.clucas@napier.ac.uk ) or Professor Richard Whitecross ( r.whitecross@napier.ac.uk ) if you would like to discuss the possibility of doctoral study within the Centre.
Do you have a general enquiry about our Centre, or are you interested in getting involved in our research?
We'd love to hear from you.
Please email us at centrechildandfamily@napier.ac.uk , and one of our team members will respond to you.
Researchers Research Themes Publications Presentations Events Media Blog Get in touch

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/news/brexitdatabase:
Life savings could be swept away, warns Business School academic
21 February 2017
12:32
Edinburgh Napier is contributing to the work – an attempt to counter rash decisions that could see thousands of over-65s in particular arriving back in the UK without property or pensions.
A sudden reverse migration could increase pressures on the UK’s overstretched health and social care services at a time when key workers in these sectors may themselves be returning to EU homelands as a result of Brexit-related insecurities.
Researchers say fears over future rights held by UK citizens who have settled on the continent – about everything from possible legal status and rights to work to access to welfare, healthcare and pensions – could be exacerbated by misinformation.
They believe there is an urgent need to create a ‘one stop shop’ for trustworthy information channels that cover the various types of UK migrants in the EU; from students and young families in the cities to retirees on Mediterranean coastlines.
The Cambridge University-led research, funded by the UK’s Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC), will take place over the next six weeks with input from Edinburgh Napier Business School ’s Professor Maura Sheehan.
The final product will be shared widely with trusted parties such as government agencies, legal charities and citizen advice bureaus, but will not be fully released into the public domain for fear of exploitation by commercial and lobby organisations.
Lead researcher Dr Brendan Burchell, from Cambridge’s Department of Sociology, said: “UK citizens abroad need to be empowered to make sound, informed decisions during Brexit negotiations on whether to remain in their adopted homelands or return to the UK.”
Last year, the BBC’s ‘ Reality Check ’ site reported that there are around 1.2 million UK-born people living in EU nations.
Over 300,000 of those live in Spain, of which one-third receive a UK state pension.
Dr Burchell said: “Without access to well-grounded information that updates throughout the Brexit process, the current void will be increasingly filled with dangerous speculation.”
Edinburgh Napier’s Professor Sheehan said: “If panic is sparked it could lead to a domino effect in certain expatriate communities.
Housing markets in areas along the Mediterranean coast could collapse as retirees try to sell up, but with no new UK expats looking to buy.
Life savings could get swept away in the confusion.
“Meanwhile, there is no slack in UK social infrastructure for ageing expats returning en masse with expectations of support.
The NHS has yet to emerge from its current crisis, there is a desperate shortage of housing, and social care is badly underfunded.
“The idea that we could see baby-boomer expats back in the UK with health conditions, financial woes and even ending in destitution as a result of bad decisions based on misinformation should not simply be written off as so-called ‘remoaner’ hysteria.”

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/study-with-us/undergraduate/how-to-apply:
Find advice and support about how to apply to our undergraduate courses, submitting your application, and what to expect after you have applied.
The UCAS deadline for September 2026 entry is 14 January.
You can also Apply now through Clearing for 2025 entry.
There's a reason we've been the number one university in Edinburgh for student satisfaction five years in a row.
Watch our current students summarise their Napier experience.
Check out more interviews from our academic staff below.
When you apply for one of our Nursing or Midwifery courses, you may be invited to complete an online assessment as part of your application.
Keep an eye on your emails for an invitation to the assessment, as well as login details to the assessment platform.
Get ahead by learning all about the Confident Caring Assessment process today.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-marketing-with-sustainability-postgraduate-full-time:
This programme combines two harmonising and essential fields of study: marketing and sustainability.
Marketing is the engine of global economic growth, but it has also been blamed for the rise in consumerism and the acceleration of pollution.
For marketing to be practiced responsibly, an understanding of marketing’s relationship with sustainability and sustainable practices is required, and this degree provides a focused and dedicated understanding of the relationship between these crucial fields for the success of every business, on both a theoretical and practical level.
The MSc Marketing with Sustainability will give you the skills and knowledge to address these important issues of global significance.
The MSc in Marketing with Sustainability is a single year of study over 12 months (for students starting in September), or 18 months (for students starting in January).
As a full-time student, you will study six taught specialist modules, designed to provide you with in depth knowledge of sustainable marketing practice, plus an additional module in either ‘Research Methods’ or ‘Research Skills’, as well as our non-credit bearing module, ‘Skills for Success’, where you will learn business skills and etiquette, and essential computer literacy skills.
Three bespoke modules linking marketing and sustainability will focus your expertise: ‘Sustainable Supply Chain Management’ allows you to learn about global distribution issues, ‘Marketing, Sustainability & Ethical Perspectives’ will develop your skills in debating important theoretical and practical points and sharpen your abilities as a critical thinker.
The module ‘Marketing for a Sustainable Future’ will lead you to a full understanding of how marketing can help businesses and consumers achieve their sustainability goals.
In particular the module will consider the role of marketing in advancing the UN's Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), particularly in relation to SDG 12, which seeks to promote sustainable consumption and production.
Option modules will allow you to decide which aspects of marketing you would like to focus on, such as Global Marketing, or Strategic Brand Management, and the Dissertation or Capstone Project, completed in your third trimester, will focus on a marketing and sustainability topic.
This substantial piece of work will allow you to showcase your academic writing and research skills, and demonstrate expertise in an area of marketing and sustainability that will be of interest to future employers.
At Edinburgh Napier, we have a well-established international reputation in marketing research and education.
As one of the graduates from this programme you will be well informed in the theory and practicalities of marketing and sustainability.
Programme Leader: Dr Elaine Mercer-Jones
In this module, you will explore topical issues shaping consumer behaviour today.
You’ll learn how to spot emerging trends, analyse them effectively, and use evidence to make smart, market recommendations.You will be introduced to the different environments marketers work in—whether it’s a business aiming for profit or a non-profit organization and learn to recognise differences in consumer preferences and market strategy.
You will dive into what drives people’s choices, from individual factors like motivation, learning and attitudes, to social influences like culture and reference groups.You will also gain insights into how consumers make decisions and how marketers can create better experiences based on those decisions.
In this module, you will explore how marketing tools can be used to encourage more sustainable and responsible consumption and contribute to global efforts aimed at addressing environmental challenges, improving social welfare, and promoting economic resilience.You will study key sustainability concepts from both macro and micro (organisational) perspectives, and consider how marketing strategies can be used to construct a brand purpose that prioritises sustainability, as well as encourage responsible consumption.The module will enable you to develop your understanding of the key principles and drivers of sustainable marketing practice and develop strategies that can enable organisations to integrate sustainable practices effectively while fostering positive relationships with key stakeholders.
This module equips you to challenge the critical issue that will affect the decisions of future business leaders and consumers: sustainability.
In this module, you will be introduced to interdisciplinary ethical theories and fields of study including: utilitarianism, deontology, virtue ethics, surveillance, postmodernism, feminism and semiotics.
These perspectives are then applied as a critical lens to examine current sustainability-related issues in marketing, debate arguments and present solutions to real-life problems.
We apply these theories to current debates such as: 'cosmetics industry is sustainable', 'consumer culture encourages wasteful consumption', 'green marketing is a contradiction in terms', 'algorithmic marketing is harmful to the environment', 'marketing creates more problems than it solves'.
What are the entry requirements for Marketing with Sustainability?
Can I get admission into Marketing with Sustainability based on my working experience in this sector?
What career will open as a result of studying the MSc Marketing with Sustainability?
Marketing is the engine of global economic growth and with a Masters in a marketing discipline you can help any business, charity or NGO to be a leader in its field.
What will make me distinctive as a graduate from this programme?
For marketing to be practiced responsibly, an understanding of marketing’s relationship with sustainability and sustainable practices is a real benefit.
Although our other MSc Marketing programmes emphasise the role marketing can play in contributing to a sustainable future, this degree provides a more focused and dedicated understanding of the relationship between marketing and sustainability on both a theoretical and practical level.
By studying MSc Marketing with Sustainability you will benefit from the marketing group’s well-established and high-quality work in both fields.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-marketing-management-undergraduate-fulltime:
93% of our BA (Hons) Marketing Management students were satisfied overall with the course in 2023.
If you are looking for a career that emphasises creativity, communication skills and analytical abilities then marketing could be for you.
Our course will equip you with the knowledge and skills you need to enter this exciting sector, by exposing you to current theory and practice.
With strong links to industry, modules that give you real-world experience  and the option to undertake a work placement, you'll increase your chance of following in the footsteps of our past graduates who have found employment a brand managers, marketing executives and more!
Edinburgh Napier if the #1 Modern University in Scotland (Times' World University Rankings 2025).
N500
The course blends together theory and practice.
You'll gain an excellent understanding of both basic marketing principles and specialist areas such as brand management, international marketing and marketing communications.
You will study cutting-edge developments in the marketing industry, including digital and social media.
Programme Leader - Dr Paul Naughton Deputy Programme Leader - Dr Christine Band
What are the entry requirements for Marketing Management?
Standard Entry Requirement: BBBC
Marketing demands clear thinking and innovative solutions to meet stakeholder needs.
Our course in Marketing Management blends together theory and practice to provide an excellent understanding of marketing principles.
The course will provide general marketing principles, but also delve into specialist areas such as brand management and marketing communications.
The programme is accredited by the Institute of Data & Marketing and The Chartered Institute of Marketing , further recognising the strength of this programme.
This course offers flexible module choices to allow you to study the areas that interest you most.
There is also the opportunity to undertake work-based learning.
The skills developed and relationships gained through work-based learning can set you apart in an increasingly challenging job market.
The industry skills and specific knowledge developed as you progress in this course will prepare you well for a career in marketing management.
A Social Media Manager is responsible for developing, creating and implementing a companies social media strategy.
Often with a view to enhance online presence, engage audiences and achieve marketing and communication goals.
They are part of the overall strategic marketing plan, but their focus is on social media platforms like Facebook, Instagram, TikTok, YouTube and others.
Daily tasks and responsibilities in this role may include: - Social media strategy development - Content creation and distribution - Monitor and analyse advertising campaigns - Market research

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-marketing-management-undergraduate-online-learning:
Our BA Marketing Management top-up course provides you with the opportunity to develop and demonstrate your knowledge and understanding of marketing and related business subjects, and to develop your practical, critical and analytical skills and attributes.
Edinburgh Napier is the #1 Modern University in Scotland (Times' World University Rankings 2024).
Building on your previous experience and skills, you’ll develop your knowledge and understanding of marketing theory and the ability to apply this to practical situations.
You’ll also establish critical, analytical, creative and reflective approaches to marketing.
For the award of BA Marketing Management you must successfully pass all six modules, giving a total of 120 credits.
What are the entry requirements for Marketing Management (Top-Up)?
HND in a Business/Marketing related subject with grade C at SCQF Level 8.
Applicants who do not meet the standard entry requirements may be considered if they have a minimum of 5+ year's relevant marketing work experience.
Frequently Asked Questions about Fees.
On successful completion of this course you will have the knowledge, understanding and skills to seek graduate-level employment in one of the disciplines within marketing.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-international-festival--event-management-and-marketing-undergraduate-fulltime:
Our International Festival & Event Management and Marketing will teach you how to plan, design, market, operate and develop events, as well as how these events can be used to help local economies and communities.
With options of a 24-week work placement and study abroad, this course offers excellent preparation for your career in festivals and events management.
The programme has a number of compulsory modules including marketing, and optional modules in marketing specialisms to make you stand out as career-ready in the marketplace from day one.
N835
This applied course will teach you how to plan, develop and deliver festivals and events, as well as how they relate to the management function of marketing across a range of industries.
With options of a 24-week work placement and study abroad, this course offers excellent preparation for your career in festivals and events management or marketing.
The programme has compulsory modules from both sides of the degree title and optional modules in additional marketing specialisms, which will make you stand out as career-ready in the marketplace from day one.
The course blends together theory and practice in marketing.
You'll gain an excellent understanding of both basic marketing principles and have the option to explore specialist areas such as international marketing, direct and digital marketing and social media marketing.
You'll also develop sound business, communication and problem-solving skills.
Your first year will give you an introduction to key themes and concepts relevant to the operational aspects of event management, in a broader context of related industries.
You will also learn mainstream business skills to help develop your knowledge of how businesses work.
In year two you will learn about event design, and are assessed in a practical module.
Other topics include sports events, and the management of venues and other facilities, which helps build on your foundation from year one.
The first half of year three sees you put events in their broader political context, as well as focusing on conferences and corporate events.
The second half of year three has an industry focus, when you will either complete a 24-week work placement, or a consultancy based Live Project.
Your final year is focused on your dissertation, a large-scale piece of independent academic research.
Other modules focus on event sustainability, and strategic management.
Dr David Jarman came to Edinburgh to study his undergraduate degree, a period during which he combined study with summers spent working at the Edinburgh festivals.
Through the early years of the century David built up his festival experience, completed an MSc, and travelled.
This provided a great platform on which to develop his academic teaching and research career with Edinburgh Napier, from 2007 on.
Dr Gary Kerr is a Lecturer in Festival and Event Management in the Business School at Edinburgh Napier University, where he lectures students on International Festival & Event Management degree programmes.
Gary has a PhD in Biological Sciences from the University of Warwick and is completing his second PhD at the University of Salford on the social, political and cultural dimensions of science festivals in the UK.
As part of his research, he has interviewed over 30 UK science festival directors.
He has worked in numerous roles with various festivals including Staff Manager, Event Manager, Venue Manager, Production Coordinator, Creative Producer, and Creative Director.
He was Stage Manager for the Olympics & Paralympics Homecoming Parade (2016).
Internationally, Gary has held the role of Quality Controller of the Innovator Festival (UAE) and Local Content Manager and Producer of the world-leading Abu Dhabi Science Festival.
In these roles Gary consistently provided his clients with ongoing feedback on the quality of the festival's content and ensured consistency in the delivery of a high quality festival.
Gary teaches at up to 20 universities across the UAE each year and is a Visiting Professorial Teaching Felow at The University of Warwick
Prof Jane Ali-Knight is a Professor in Festival and Event Management and a Visiting Research Professor at Curtin University, Perth.
She is currently leading and developing the festival and event subject group as well as lecturing at Universities internationally and facilitating training and development in the field.
Her core activities fall into three main areas: event and festival related programmes; research and publications and conferences and professional events.
She is currently a board member of BAFA (British Arts and Festivals Association), Without Walls, Vice Chair of Women in Tourism and is a Fellow of the HEA and Royal Society of the Arts.
Dr Martin Robertson's career in academia followed his professional development and managerial experiences within the areas of conference organisation, tourism, travel and economic development (private and public sector).
He has maintained his contact with the industry environment through Business Events and Conference Management and through Art Festival logistics and also through event resilience and leadership research.
This drives his continued desire for a learning, and teaching experience - alongside subject related research, that is professionally and socially useful.
Martin’s concern for teaching and learning application and excellence has been successfully applied in his roles over the last 20 years as an academic.
Most of those years have been spent in leading roles for degree programmes, both as a faculty wide Director (3 years) and for 15 years as Programme Leader (PL).
Currently he is the PL for MSc Business Event Management, and an Associate Professor.
Dr Louise Todd is a Lecturer and an Associate Professor.
She is a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy, Royal Society of Arts and Royal Anthropological Institute.
Louise’s research interests lie in tourism, cultural events, art, experience design, visual culture and marketing communications.
She has published her research in journal articles, book chapters and presented at international conferences.
Louise has experience in designing and delivering research dissemination and public engagement events and activities on a national and international basis.
In August 2017, she was invited to present key aspects of her research into the Edinburgh Festival Fringe and its stakeholders as a public performance during the Fringe.
She has also been involved in the design and development of Knowledge Exchange and CPD activities, including an externally funded Executive Programme she co-delivered in Singapore to members of the Tourism industry.
The content of this was informed by her co-authored published research.
You're in the right place if you want real life, hands-on experience.
Our strong links to industry allow us to offer an optional 24 week work placement available across all three of the subject areas: hospitality, tourism and festival & events.
You'll have the opportunity to study abroad, with options in Europe, North America and Australia.
What are the entry requirements for International Festival and Event Management?
By studying international festival & events management and marketing at Edinburgh Napier University, you will become an expert at planning, delivering and marketing events of all kinds.
You will gain strong organisational skills whilst developing your cross functional knowledge in business, marketing and budget management.
You will learn about the operational requirements within the international events sector, along with how different cultures, environments and infrastructure feed into event planning and development across the tourism, events and hospitality industry.
On completion of your degree, you will be an effective communicator, with excellent problem solving and time management abilities, which may lead you to pursue a career delivering festivals, events, exhibitions or conferences.
You will also develop your skills in marketing through specialised modules throughout the course, which you can apply to a wide range of industries, organisations and contexts.
As a graduate you may also go on to work at internationally renowned events such as the Commonwealth Games, Rugby World Cup, The Edinburgh Military Tattoo and the Edinburgh Festival Fringe.
An International Events Marketing Manager is responsible for marketing events on a global scale.
Their primary focus is to promote events that involve participants, attendees, and stakeholders from different countries.
In this role, you will have excellent leadership and organisational skills, with the ability to work in a fast-paced environment.
The role involves a wide range of tasks and responsibilities, including but not limited to:
· Marketing and promotion
· Stakeholder engagement
· Risk management
· Site co-ordination
· Post event evaluation
· Budget Management

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-international-marketing-postgraduate-fulltime:
This programme will equip you with knowledge and intellectual capabilities to successfully commence or develop a career in international marketing management.
It is suitable for any graduate who wants a comprehensive understanding of international marketing.
This could include a new graduate who is keen to start a career in marketing.
Equally, it could include an experienced marketer who would like to ensure they have a thorough grounding in the marketing discipline in order to help develop their career.
The programme satisfies the need for academic rigour with an understanding of the day-to-day practice of international marketing.
The modules contain many examples of marketing in practice and examine both established and new techniques for practising marketing in an international context successfully.
The degree also aims to develop the skills necessary for employment such as decision-making and problem-solving in complex, unpredictable and often fast changing situations; developing initiative and personal responsibility; and the independent learning ability needed for continuing professional development in an international environment.
Full-time Dual degree option
Dual degree option
This programme gave me well rounded marketing skills, both physical and digital.
In addition to further commercial talents, like strategic planning and data aggregation methods.
Olivia Kelly, MSc International Marketing
The staff members were helpful and made time for the students.
The lecturers also encouraged us to take part in the industry competitions and complete certifications preparing us for the working life.
Jasmiina Milne, MSc International Marketing
You’ll develop organisational and business skills as well as an understanding of strategic marketing, brand management theories, intercultural communication and the ability to develop marketing plans.
You’ll gain transferable skills such as formulating policy and project management, research, time management and presentation methods.
This module introduces the theory, principles, and practice of digital marketing strategy.
Using contemporary frameworks and recent case studies you will learn about paid, earned and owned media and their role in digital marketing strategy.
You will investigate recent changes in online consumer behaviour and their impact on marketing practice.
Some of the key topics discussed in this module will include: social media marketing, digital advertising, digital PR, online market research, user-generated content, mobile marketing, eCRM, content marketing strategy, email marketing, and online Public Relations.
This module is accredited by Institute of Data & Marketing (IDM)
This module explores key theories and practices related to social media marketing and content marketing.
The structure of the module follows a well-established model developed by Solomon and Tuten (2020) that focuses on 4 zones of social media marketing.
You will learn: 1.
how organisations establish and maintain Social Communities using appropriate interactive creative content practices that are published on social media pages and profiles(LO1).
Social Publishing will open up the world of creative content for businesses and organisations, with a specific focus on blogging and other narrative and social/personality- driven media content(LO2).
The third element of this module will focus on Social Commerce, leading you to a full understanding of how content creation can be used for driving sales and encouraging engagement (LO3).
Social Entertainment will show you the ways in which social gaming and play, branded videos etc.
can be used to enhance brand identity and online presence(LO4).
You will also reflect on and critique the ways in which social mediaand content marketing techniques can be used in marketing and business contexts (LO5).
Develop a critical understanding of strategic brand management theory and evaluate the value  of such theory to organisations.
Analyse the origin of popular brands.
Strategic brand management process.
Establishing brand position and values.
Choosing brand elements to built brand equity.
The role of advertising and the Internet in brand development.
The legal protection of brands.
Co-branding and brand conflict.
Developing brand equity measurement and management systems.
Managing brands in a global context and the not for profit sector.
Branding and sustainability
What are the entry requirements for International Marketing?
Can I get admission in International Marketing based on my working experience in this sector?
What can you do with a degree in International Marketing?
Studying an MSc in International Marketing at Edinburgh Napier University will significantly enhance your career prospects and provide you with the skills and knowledge needed to succeed in the dynamic and competitive field of global marketing.
You will open career opportunities around the world and be well-versed in adapting to the fast-paced marketing environment.
On successful completion of this programme, you will have the knowledge, understanding, and skills to gain postgraduate-level employment in the global business field.
You will gain a range of highly desirable transferable skills, including problem-solving, leadership, conflict resolution, and communication, which are valued by employers within multiple areas of an organisation.
What does an International Brand Manager do?
As an international brand manager, you would be responsible for developing and implementing strategies to build and maintain a strong brand presence in multiple countries.
This may involve conducting market research, managing product launches, and adapting marketing messages to suit different cultural contexts.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-international-marketing-with-tourism-postgraduate-fulltime:
This programme will equip you with the knowledge and intellectual capabilities to successfully commence or develop a career in international marketing within the tourism sector.
It is suitable for any graduate who desires a comprehensive understanding of international marketing with tourism.
This could include a new graduate who is keen to start a career in tourism marketing.
Equally, it could include an experienced professional who would like to ensure they have thorough grounding in marketing and tourism subjects in order to develop their international tourism marketing career.
The programme satisfies the need for academic rigour with an understanding of the day-to-day practice of international marketing in the context of the tourism sector.
The modules contain many examples of international marketing in practice and examine both established and new techniques for practising marketing in an international tourism context successfully.
The degree also aims to develop the skills necessary for employment such as; decision-making and problem-solving in complex, unpredictable and often fast changing situations; developing initiative and personal responsibility; and the independent learning ability needed for continuing professional development in an international environment.
The course prepared me well for a career, and soon after submitting my dissertation, I became a marketing manager at a Scottish tour company.
Everything I studied became useful in practice.
You’ll develop organisational and business skills as well as an understanding of digital marketing brand management, intercultural communication, tourism and the ability to develop strategic marketing plans.
You’ll gain transferable skills such as project management, research, time management and presentation methods.
Dr Agata Krowinska
Agata is a Lecturer in Marketing at Edinburgh Napier University.
She is the Programme Leader of MSc International Marketing Suite.
Her research interests include digital marketing, consumer engagement and artificial intelligence in marketing.
Dr Clidna Soraghan
Clidna is a Lecturer in Marketing at Edinburgh Napier University.
She is the Deputy Programme Leader of MSc International Marketing Suite.
Her research interests include critical marketing, consumer behaviour, and social marketing.
In Trimester 1 (Sept-Dec) you will study three modules: Principles and Practices of Marketing, Intercultural Business Communication, and Tourism Concepts and Issues
In Trimester 2 (Jan-April) you will study four modules: Research Methods, Strategic Brand Management, Digital Marketing Strategy, and Case Studies in International Tourism
In Trimester 3 (May--August) you will complete a Dissertation.
The overall aim of this module is to provide a stimulating programme of study that enables you to determine and evaluate the current trends and contemporary debates and developments in international tourism, events and hospitality management and their implications for tourism business.
This module therefore aims to introduce and evaluate the tourism phenomenon, current trends and developments in international tourism and their implications for tourists, tourism businesses and destination populations.
The effects on international tourism of the global economic downturn and the recovery are reviewed but in the wider context of key issues: problems involved in monitoring, measuring and defining tourism; the complexities of stakeholder relationships; visitor demand and behaviour; current issues and trends including environmental concerns, the ethics of the globalisation of tourism and the development of alternative forms of tourism.
Furthermore, issues and trends in related sectors, namely hospitality and festivals and events, are also discussed.
What are the entry requirements for International Marketing with Tourism?
Can I get admission in International Marketing with Tourism based on my working experience in this sector?
What can you do with a degree in International Marketing with a Tourism focus?
Studying an MSc in International Marketing with a focus on Tourism at Edinburgh Napier University will open a range of exciting career opportunities in the global tourism industry.
Depending on your interests and skills, you may also explore opportunities in tourism policy, destination management, adventure tourism, international marketing and brand, or niche markets such as wellness tourism or luxury travel.
What does a Destination Marketing Manager do?
A Destination Marketing Manager is responsible for promoting a specific location, such as a city, region, or country, to attract visitors and tourists.
They play a crucial role in driving economic growth and development through tourism by effectively promoting their destination to domestic and international travellers.
They must be strategic thinkers, creative problem-solvers, and effective communicators who can work collaboratively with diverse stakeholders to achieve common goals.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-marketing-postgraduate-fulltime:
From the principles and practices of marketing right through to marketing on a global scale we’ll get you ready for the work place.
Building on marketing theory we’ll help you to test these in a practical way by getting you to apply these to real business scenarios.
The yearlong course is split into 3 trimesters, each building on the last working towards your own dissertation to get you ready to kick start your marketing career on an international level.
The MSc Marketing is an engaging course with great lecturers; and it’s also very applicable in the job world.
Arron Sinclair
MSc Marketing Student
A career in marketing requires a wide range of skills.
Our course will teach you to think analytically and critically examine the issues confronting the global business environment.
We’ll help you to develop quantitative and qualitative research skills.
Helping you to develop your presentation techniques.
Skills that will help you to understand how to develop brands in the global marketplace.
You’ll benefit from our strong links within the marketing and advertising industries all over the world, as well as guest speakers.
We also have links with industry bodies including the Chartered Institute of Marketing, The Marketing Society Scotland and the Institute of Direct Marketing which add further credibility to the course.
Our team work together with students to encourage innovation, enterprise and citizenship through our marketing community.
September starts: 12 months;
January starts: 18 months with a three-month break over the summer (after the first taught trimester).
This module provides a varied and stimulating programme of study that enables you to understand and appreciate the extensive range of contemporary issues facing festival and event organisations across the world; and to critically examine research and emerging themes in the study of festivals, events and related areas.
The module moves beyond the business and marketing-driven approaches of events management towards a more conceptual analysis and understanding of events from a socio-cultural perspective.The module will examine junctures between the social sciences and the field of festivals and events.
It applies and contextualises theories within the discourse of events to provide a greater understanding of the significance of events in contemporary society.
Studying this module provides you with a structured and detailed examination of issues pertaining to, for example, event tourism, festival and events in society, events ritual and performance, consumption, place and representation, social movements, and mobilities; along with emerging trends such as ‘pop-up?
events, the sharing economy, and changing demographics.
Moreover, it enhances your ability to critically review the influences of such issues and trends upon the international festivals and events industry.
Marketing is an ever-evolving landscape, one that has changed rapidly with the growth of technology .
Our postgraduate degree in Marketing will equip you with a higher level of skills and the ability to deploy marketing strategies and techniques in an ever-changing landscape .
This course has l inks with industry bodies including the Chartered Institute of Marketing , The Marketing Society Scotland and the Institute of Data & Marketing which add further credibility to the course.
A career in marketing requires a wide range of skills .
This course will further your knowledge and ability to think critically and provide creative solutions.
You will benefit from strong links within marketing and advertising industries throughout the world.
Also , there are a variety of guest speakers that provide key insight into industr y standards and practices .
This programme is one that will help you further your abilities as a marketing professional and gain the knowledge, confidence and connections required to thrive in a marketing environment .
A Brand Manager is a professional that is responsible for overseeing brand aspects such as development, positioning and performance.
Their primary goal is to ensure the brand is perceived in a way that resonates with its target audience.
They also focus on brand consistency across multiple marketing channels to achieve business objectives .
Creat e brand strategies
Develop brand guidelines
Develop marketing campaigns
Market analysis

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-marketing-with-festival-,-a-,-event-management-postgraduate-fulltime:
A career in marketing can take you into almost any sector of business and into workplaces all over the world.
This course is particularly aimed at those who wish to combine the key principles and practice of marketing with a specialisation in the management of festivals, events and conferences.
You’ll be able to make a vital contribution to commercial success in both the private and public sector.
The practical applications, based on real business scenarios, will equip you for a marketing career in this fast-growing international industry.
Marketing requires a wide range of skills.
You’ll learn to think analytically and critically examine the issues confronting the global business environment and the festival and events industries.
You’ll develop brand management, quantitative and qualitative research skills and presentation techniques alongside the ability to formulate policies and plans and deliver exciting business or cultural experiences.
You’ll benefit from our strong links within the global marketing, advertising, festival and event industries, as well as guest speakers.
You’ll have the opportunity to immerse yourself in marketing practice within one of the most famous festival cities in the world.
This module critically engages you and  allows you to consider both the socio-cultural role and economic impacts of international festivals and events, for organisations, policy makers, regions or localities.
The module will cover a range of festivals and events within an international context.
Major multi-arts, sporting and religious events such as the Edinburgh Festival, Commonwealth Games or Mela's to small localised festivals and one-off events will be critically explored and the audiences for each type of event examined and evaluated.
How some festivals and events, not aimed at tourists, have become tourist attractions in recent years will also be explored and challenged .
Consideration will also be given to current issues and trends in festivals and events appraising the likely future demand and development of festivals and events worldwide
What are the entry requirements for Marketing with Festival and Event Management?
Can I get admission into Marketing with Festival and Event Management based on my working experience in this sector?
Marketing is a rapidly changing environment and one that requires a wide range of skills.
On completion of t his course, you will become an expert in marketing with a specialism in the management of festivals, events and conferences.
Y ou will be an effective communicator with excellent problem-solving skills and time management abilities , a ll skills which are highly sought after in a career in marketing, festival and event management.
This postgraduate degree will further your knowledge and ability to think critically and provide creative solutions.
The course i s particularly aimed at those who wish to combine the key principles and practice of marketing with a specialisation in the management of festivals, events and conferences.
The scope of marketing opportunity is wide but with this programme you will be well equipped to take on a marketing role in festival s , event s, conference s and other large-scale projects .
A Creative Director for events is responsible for shaping the overall vision and feeling of an event or festival.
The role involves blending creativity with practical considerations to deliver an event that is unique and memorable for all attendees.
Typically, they will work closely with other teams to bring their creative vision to life.
Create design and visual strategy
Event p rogramming
Brand development
Content c reation

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-marketing-with-digital-strategy-ft-postgraduate-fulltime:
Contemporary society is increasingly described as being ‘post-digital', where technology integrates with and influences every aspect of our lives.
Digital marketing strategies and services are no longer regarded as ‘bolt-on' or specialist areas, they are now an essential and invaluable part of any communication or marketing strategy.
Our MSc in Marketing with Digital Strategy equips you with the digital skills and strategic marketing knowledge to meet current demand for people who can thrive in the digital business environment.
Suitable for those with no previous marketing knowledge, (but note that digital skills and literacy are required for this course from the outset), this higher degree will increase your employability, empowering you to have the confidence and knowledge to meet employers’ present and future digital and marketing needs, and give you the advanced digital skills necessary to develop new business and marketing opportunities.
The course is accredited by the Institute of Data & Marketing (IDM), a leading professional organisation specialising in digital marketing.
You’ll be able to gain an additional professional qualification (Certificate in Digital and Data Driven Marketing) as part of your studies, and you’ll also get practical experience in digital and social media analytics as part of this course, greatly enhancing your career prospects.
I loved studying this course.
I’m a big fan of how dynamic and complete the programme is.
I had the chance to explore different sides of the subject through a nice balance of theory and practice.
Martina Birotti
MSc Marketing with Digital Strategy Graduate
September start (12 months):
In Trimester 1 (Sept-Dec) you will study Principles and Practices of Marketing, Digital Analytic Strategy plus either Consumer Behaviour OR Marketing Communications.
In Trimester 2 (Jan-April) you will study four modules: Research Methods, Strategic Brand Management, Digital Marketing Strategy, Social Media and Content Marketing.
January start (16 months):
In Trimester 2 (Jan- April) you will study four modules: Research Methods, Strategic Brand Management, Digital Marketing Strategy, Social Media and Content Marketing.
May - Sept: BREAK
In Trimester 1 (Sept - Dec) you will study Principles and Practices of Marketing, Digital Analytic Strategy plus either Consumer Behaviour OR Marketing Communications.
In Trimester 2 of Year 2 (Jan - June) you will complete a Dissertation.
Not applicable
Not Applicable
What are the entry requirements for Marketing with Digital Strategy ?
Please note that digital skills and literacy are required for this course from the outset.
Can I get admission into Marketing with Digital Strategy based on my working experience in this sector?
Digital marketing strategies and services are no w essential and an invaluable aspect of any communication or marketing strateg y .
T his course will increase your employability, empowering you with the confidence and knowledge to meet employers present and future digital and marketing needs .
The course will also give you the advanced digital skills necessary to develop new business and marketing opportunities.
It i s particularly aimed at those who wish to enhance their marketing skills with a focus on digital aspects.
The course is accredited by the Institute of Data & Marketing (IDM) , a leading professional organisation specialising in digital marketing.
A Digital Marketing Manager is a professional that is responsible for developing, implementing and managing marketing campaigns run through digital channels.
The role requires a deep understanding of digital platforms and tools.
Digital Marketing Managers are typically a strategic thinkers that help drive brand awareness, engagement and conversions.
Develop digital strategies
Manage online advertising campaigns
Creat e digital content
Customer relationship management
Monitor and report on trends

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/study-with-us/international-students/your-country/americas/usa/what-our-students-say/shelly-scofield-testimonial:
Shelly from the USA talks about her life at Edinburgh Napier University.
I knew that Edinburgh Napier University was an international school but it didn't sink in until the first day of classes.
I was sitting among students from France, Germany, Netherlands, China, Philippines, Spain, Poland, India, Romania, and the list continues.
The international diversity at Edinburgh Napier sets the university apart from other universities and provides a rich learning environment that you may not find elsewhere.
I've joined the Edinburgh Napier Chamber Choir (ENCC) which is a club within the Edinburgh Napier Students’ Association.
We have weekly practices and a few concerts throughout the year.
Last week, the choir sang in the Annual Academic Service at St.
Giles Cathedral on the Royal Mile.
It's a church service that takes place at the beginning of each academic year and includes the ENCC, the chamber choir from the University of Edinburgh, and the St.
Giles Cathedral choir.
It was a memorable and incredible experience.
I put that, among other things, on the list of things I never thought I'd get to do.
I was recently in Copenhagen and while it had its own charm and beauty, when I returned to Edinburgh, I couldn't help but notice that other cities don't compare when it comes to aesthetic appeal.
In the city centre there is an abundance of interesting architecture, green spaces and hidden alleyways.
On my way home from campus I can see the ocean and Arthur's Seat sitting beyond the tree-laden cobble stone streets.
I love living in such a beautiful place.
I'm hoping that the international experience Edinburgh Napier University provides its students will give me a competitive advantage after I graduate.
All business schools can teach me the principles of marketing.
Not all universities can supply the wealth of knowledge I have gained and will continue to obtain as I work and associate with people from all over the world at Edinburgh Napier.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/marketing/panels/marianne-kirsop:
In recent trimesters, we have had the opportunity to sit in on guest lectures, I appreciate the organisation that goes into setting up guest lecturers, especially in today’s pandemic.
I feel that by having the lectures online they are highly accessible - I think that I have attended more guest-lectures online than I would have in person, because of locations and timings.
I’ve developed my organisational skills, to manage my workload.
I have also learnt to think critically, to present and discuss theories and ideas before implementing them in my work.
This has included group work, essays, and tutorials.
Can you sum up your student experience living in Edinburgh?
When I first moved to Edinburgh to study, I was impressed with the culture of the city- national museum and galleries, as well as the many smaller galleries, museums and free events.
The city is ideal for students to explore, there are so many free events and nature spaces, in the city you can walk; up Calton hill, Blackford hill, Arthur’s seat, or go further out by bus to the Pentland Hills, Cramond Island, or various beaches.
There are also lots of student-budget friendly bars and cafes throughout the city.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/marketing/panels/eilidh-muir:
Being in one of the most beautiful cities in the world, you meet such fantastic people that become some of your best friends.
From being one of the original founders of SMS Napier – our marketing society – to coaching the ENU Panthers, the personal development opportunities have been endless for me.
Aside from combining professional and academic experiences, one of the greatest advantages through my time studying Marketing Management has been the innovative assessments.
As a highly dyslexic student who struggles with exams, I am so grateful that most graded submissions on the Marketing Management course are centred around more practical formats – such as reports and video submissions.
Through being the current President of SMS Napier, I have noticed that this practical thinking extends beyond just the degree programme.
Established as a collaboration between academics and students, we have seen so many individuals benefit from the industry insights and professional connections that SMS Napier provide.
Ultimately setting you up for your future career, these practical skills can be important to utilise when completing either the placement or live project option in your penultimate year.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/our-schools/the-business-school/case-studies/marketing-team:
We are committed to developing employable marketing graduates who add value to business and society at large.
Building on:
we enhance student employability and create a leading-edge student experience.
With our modern and dynamic curriculum, we provide you with the skills you need to reach your career goals – whether it be on a practice or research related pathway.
With strong ties to industry, we ensure that our programmes and modules are kept up to date, delivering material that reflect emerging trends.
Our programmes are accredited by the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) and the Institute of Data and Marketing (IDM).
You will benefit from the professional engagement within our programmes – through guest lectures, workshops, live projects, and work placements, as well as gain entrance into our Student Marketing Society.
Our Public Engagement and Professional Experience
Our staff are involved in a variety of activities both in- and outside of academia.
Colleagues have performed at the Edinburgh Fringe Festival, others are acclaimed fiction writers, and have undertaken public speaking engagements including at the Scottish Parliament, the Royal College of Surgeons, and the Edinburgh Book Festival.
Our work experience outside of academia includes producing and marketing the number 1 radio station in Los Angeles and news radio station in the United States, hosting a rock radio show in Edinburgh, consulting for the UK Catapult network, editing one of the largest business news websites in South Africa, providing digital marketing coaching at the Google Digital Garage, and more.
Members of the marketing group continue to be actively involved with marketing, including running our Edinburgh Napier Marketing Network podcast and Marketing LinkedIn group, publishing and promoting the first academic textbook on Content Marketing and an associated 2-day Masterclass, producing and marketing events such as our annual ‚Meet The Marketers‘ and, in 2024, producing and promoting the Global Brand Conference.
Our exciting and wide-ranging research projects help to tackle relevant and pressing worldly questions.
For example, it has led to a rollout of No Smoking zones in the Sleman Regency of Indonesia .
By working towards impactful solutions benefitting organisations and society at large, we embrace collaborations with scholars and practitioners alike, and we welcome you to join us.
Please look our profiles to find out more about current projects underway.
Our research themes include:
Society and Well-Being
Our research in this area focuses on ethical marketing, social marketing, food marketing, gender studies, generational marketing, political marketing, critical marketing and fashion marketing.
Dr Ashleigh Logan-McFarlane
Dr Elaine Mercer-Jones
Dr Kathryn Rezai
Dr Paul Naughton
Dr Reika Igarashi
Innovation, Digital and Technology
Our research in this area focuses on digital marketing, social media marketing, online engagement, technology acceptance, organisational creativity and innovation diffusion.
Dr Andrew Kincaid
Dr Christine Band
Dr Kyle Andrews
Dr Lu Fan
Dr Mark Passera
Dr Simone Kurtzke
Dr Paria Zamanfashami
Dr Jamie Thompson
Our research in this area focuses on corporate social responsibility, sustainable marketing, sustainable branding, relationship marketing and international marketing.
Dr Mavis Gutu
Dr Millissa Cheung
Professor Nathalia Tjandra
Professor Anna Watson

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/impact-case-studies/changing-attitudes-to-tobacco-marketing-in-indonesia:
Indonesia is the world’s second largest market for cigarettes after China, selling around 300 billion cigarettes a year.
The country is one of the biggest producers of tobacco globally, and the industry is a significant part of its income, employing 2.5 million manufacturing workers and farmers, and contributing around 10% of Indonesia’s tax revenues.
As well as having a high proportion of adult smokers, the country is particularly notable for the high number of young children who smoke; 89% of children are thought to have smoked before reaching the age of 13.
Tobacco control policy in Indonesia continues to be lenient, despite the 240,000 Indonesians that die from smoking-related causes every year.
While the country allows for the provision of No Smoking Areas, known as KTRs, where smoking and the promotion and sale of tobacco products is prohibited, it remains up to local governments how and if these are implemented.
Young male consumers are their target market; and it was clear that the marketing activities were aimed to appeal to them.
Dr Nathalia Tjandra
In 2014, Edinburgh Napier’s Associate Professor Nathalia Tjandra set out to investigate public perceptions of the ethics of tobacco marketing in Indonesia.
The study was funded by the Carnegie Trust and Edinburgh Napier University, and carried out along with Dr Lukman Araoen (University of East Anglia) and Professor Yayi Suryo Prabandari (University of Gadjah Mada, Indonesia).
The researchers used interviews, focus groups and questionnaires to understand the views of people living in Indonesia’s Yogyakarta region, an autonomous province with 3.5 million inhabitants.
Dr Tjandra remembers: “It’s a complicated subject in Indonesia: tobacco provides jobs and money for people and sports events sponsorship, as well as community projects and CSR activities.
But one thing that almost all of our participants agreed on was that it was unethical to use tobacco marketing to appeal to children.
Young male consumers are their target market; and it was clear that the marketing activities were aimed to appeal to them.”
The findings turned out to be of considerable interest to local leaders.
At a public talk, the research findings were discussed in front of 48 key stakeholders including government health and education officials, anti-tobacco activists, public order enforcers, doctors, academics and media.
Among the attendees were staff from the Public Health Office of Sleman Regency, a sub-division of Yogyakarta Region with a population of 850,176.
Based on what they’d learned at the event, the Public Health Office subsequently decided on a new regional policy – to ban tobacco advertising and sponsorship in schools in the Sleman Regency region.
They also introduced a new mandatory monitoring process for schools, which must report biannually on implementation of their KTR.
300 primary schools in eight districts of Sleman Regency implemented KTRS and reported back on progress using the new criteria in the monitoring guidelines.
The same guidelines have been expanded to cover KTRs in public transport, healthcare services, playgrounds, houses of worship, workplace and public places.
By 2019, over three-quarters of the region’s teaching and learning, workplace, healthcare and public area institutions had set up KTRs – involving 1,941 public spaces in Sleman.
As a result the research is benefiting the wider public as well as school children.
Another initiative by Sleman’s Regent, or governor, instructed all local government leaders, village heads and school headmasters in the area to ban tobacco advertising within a 500m radius of KTRs – going well beyond existing national regulations.
Awareness around tobacco marketing, gained from the ENU research, is an ongoing focus of the Public Health Office’s smoking intervention activities and training, which is delivered to schools, community health centres and other institutions.
Smoking is pretty much embedded in Indonesian society, but just one region has been able to take considerable strides in changing that environment for its people.
Dr Tjandra said: “Our research was important because it untangled the issues.
The policymakers realised they could be confident that a policy against advertising to children would have public support, despite other areas being more ambiguous.”
The research findings were carried in national newspapers including Tempo, Suara Merdeka, and nine local newspapers, as well as online news sites, and a resulting academic paper won Best Paper in Ethics and Marketing from the Academy of Marketing.
Dr Tjandra says: “It’s really heartening the impact that this has had.
And if they can do it, others can follow.”

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-music-undergraduate-fulltime:
Delivered by a diverse range of industry and research experienced lecturers, this course will enable you to respond to the changing landscape of the music and wider creative industries, making you adaptable and employable.
This course is designed to support you in following pathways that reflect your specialist interests in performance, composition, production, or other areas such as education, management and research.
You will have the opportunity to develop and demonstrate your knowledge and understanding of your creative and scholarly intentions and mindset, with music as the primary medium for exploration and expression across a range of genres, including Classical, Jazz, Contemporary Commercial, Avant Garde and Popular Music styles (including Hip Hop, and Electronic Music).
You will explore music in practical and contextual perspectives and domains, to develop your practical, critical and analytical skills and attributes.
You will experience performance in a solo and/or ensemble/band context, depending on your specialism, with accompaniment provision (where appropriate).
The practical application of orchestration/arranging and composition is emphasised through collaborative projects and workshops with instrumentalists.
With modules that prepare you for careers in education and community music, we are also one of the few music departments in the country to offer an undergraduate module in Music Therapy.
W303
Joanna Stark BMus (Hons) Music
A look at the requirements for your portfolio when applying for BA Music in Performance, Composition, and/or Production.
Our lecturers and support staff include active performers, composers, conductors, musicologists and music therapists.
You will have access to outstanding facilities that mirror industry, including dedicated practice spaces, four high-quality recording studios and a fully networked music lab, running a range of industry-relevant software including Logic, Pro Tools, Ableton and Sibelius.
We also have Avid Certified Instructors and Pro Tools experts on our staff.
Our graduates commonly pursue portfolio careers, within and outside of music industries, that include performance, production, composition, community music, music education, music therapy and music business and management.
The transferable skills gained from studying a music degree are also appealing to graduate employers in other fields.
You are expected to purchase and maintain your own instrument.
Exceptions include piano, drum kit and percussion, in which case students can access University owned instruments on campus.
You will need to purchase some specialist equipment related to music technology modules (you’ll be advised on any necessary purchases at the time of entry).
The programme is delivered through a combination of lectures, tutorials, workshops, one-to-one and group lessons, practical classes, and computer lab/studio sessions, as appropriate.
Teaching is supported by a comprehensive virtual learning environment.
We are eager to support short-term work placements and promote various internal opportunities throughout the course.
Our students studying Contexts of Music Education have the opportunity to shadow music tutors at local schools, while our relationship with the Eric Liddell Centre provides those studying Music Therapy with a unique opportunity to gain practical experience working with people with dementia.
In recent years Music students have been invited to participate in a range of school and community-based placements with the Scottish Chamber Orchestra, in some cases leading to paid opportunities with the orchestra’s education programmes.
You’ll have the opportunity to spend one trimester or a full year abroad in Years 2 or 3.
Tampere University of Applied Sciences, Finland Washington State University, USA
• Technologies: Making Music with Technology • Introduction to Musicology
• Score Interpretation
• Organising Sound • Performance Studies: Integrated Musicianship • Western Art Music 2 • Recording Studio Theory and Practice 1
• Contextual Studies 2: Music in its Social and Cultural Context
• Performance Studies: Interpretive Musicianship
• Composition, Signs, and Meaning • Music Technology and Live Performance • Composition and Orchestration • Music Industries • Applied Musicology • Recording Studio Theory and Practice 2 • Techniques of Score Analysis 1
• Music and Praxis
• Contextual Studies: Research in Music
• Contexts of Music Education
• Contexts of Practical Musicianship: Technique and Applications • Music and Modernisms 1890-1945 • Techniques of Score Analysis 2 • Introduction to Music Therapy • Lyrics: Narratives and Prosodies • Music Software Applications • Contexts of Practical Musicianship: Creative Parameters • Music Industries: Entrepreneurship
• Major Music Project
• Contexts of Practical Musicianship: Identity, Persona and Promotion • Practical Musicianship: Improvisation • Music Research Project • Contexts of Music Education: Project • Contexts of Practical Musicianship: Live Performance • Music Psychology • Music and Modernisms 1945-1990
What are the entry requirements for Music?
You should state your specialist interests clearly on your application.
This may be performance (please state your principal instrument), composition, or production.
If you meet or are predicted to meet the minimum academic requirements, we will contact you to request a portfolio demonstrating your experience in areas of relevant practice: performance, composition or production.
Our entry requirements indicate the Standard (minimum) qualifications with which we normally accept students.
* Literary subjects accepted are: Modern Studies, History, Psychology, Sociology, RMPS, Theology, Media Studies, Philosophy, Politics, Geography, Latin, Classics, A Level Government and Politics, A Level Classical Civilisation, A Level Drama.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/ma-music-postgraduate-fulltime:
We have flipped the traditional structure of a Masters, where taught modules are followed by a final project or dissertation, by enabling you to work on and develop your major project from the outset.
This programme is ideal for musicians, composers, producers and artists who want to develop their practice, and for scholars who wish to take an academic approach to their study.
There is no requirement for undergraduate music study and we welcome practitioners and scholars from all disciplines.
Harry Docherty MA Music student
This programme will facilitate an individualised experience in which you will develop your practice, knowledge and understanding of your place in the world through the development of critical reflection abilities.
You will be encouraged and supported as you develop a deep understanding of the context of your work/practice and the work of others in a scholarly/artistic context.
Trimester 3 is mainly supervised independent study, but with two intensive weeks of contact with staff and peers, including our exciting MA conference day which gives you the opportunity to share and showcase work with staff and peers, to receive feedback and to engage in critique sessions.
We have two Avid Certified Instructors and ProTools experts on the staff.
Our well-equipped practice rooms (with 24/7 access), teaching rooms, library and recital areas ensure that all your needs are met on campus.
This module provides you with the opportunity to undertake a large-scale project in your chosen area of study.
Your project may have a scholarly or a practice-led focus and you will be guided by a supervisor to develop your ideas, practice, and methods in a manner appropriate to your chosen field or area of study.
This module runs across all three trimesters to allow for long-term, in-depth study/investigation and practice/development throughout the programme.
The first trimester includes workshops and seminars designed to help you select, refine, and begin to develop a viable project.
Contact in the second trimester is intended to support you in honing your research process and to further develop your use of the tools, methods, and processes that pertain to your specific project.
You will be supported through these trimesters by seminars in which you will present on and discuss your work with staff and peers.
You will also have individual tutorials in which you can bring specific questions to your assigned supervisor receive feedback on formative work.
In the third trimester contact will take place during 2 intensive study weeks (weeks 4 and 9) in which you will have the opportunity to discuss and present your work in detail, and to receive feedback and support from staff and peers.
You will also have the opportunity for more individual tutorials with your supervisor.
You will finish your project and submit it for consideration by the programme team.
Your work will be critiqued and scrutinised by a panel of examiners from the programme team and the questions and queries that arise will form the basis of discussion in the viva voce exam.
The viva voce exam forms the entirety of the summative assessment for this module.
The purpose of this module is to give you the opportunity to do work on a project that will challenge your current practices and which may involve completely experimental and exploratory methods.
The idea is that, by engaging in unfamiliar practices and methods, you will develop different ways of working, encounter the works and practices of others, and this will benefit your development as practitioners, scholars, artists, and researchers.
Activity in this module is primarily student-led, and supported by seminars in which you will engage critically with staff and peers by providing and receiving constructive criticism, feedback, and support.
When you have selected an area of research/practice you will be assigned a supervisor, from whom you will receive guidance and support throughout the module in the form of three 1:1 tutorials.
This module will focus on the exploration, critique, and application of a range of methodologies that pertain to the chosen areas of investigation/practice of the student cohort.
The purpose of this module is to get you to question the nature of your practice(s) and to conduct theoretical and practical critiques and analyses of a range of qualitative, quantitative, and practice-based/led methods appropriate to your scholarly/artistic work.During this module, consideration will be given to epistemological and ontological issues in research (traditional and practice-based), philosophies of scholarly investigation, and approaches to the development of knowledge and creative work.
Research ethics and integrity will also be a key focus.
In this module, you will have the opportunity to develop ways in which you think about, contextualise, and critique your own work in your chosen practice field.
You will discuss and critique various ways of thinking about music specific to a range of disciplines and fields in order to frame your understanding of your own practice and its location within the wider field and community of practice.If you are currently engaged in practice-based research this module will be invaluable for demonstrating the research content of work where this is not immediately apparent from the artefact, but all students, including those adopting more traditional academic practices, will participate in an ongoing questioning and contextualisation of what you are doing and how you are doing it.
This module provides you with the opportunity to discuss, explore, and engage in some of the scholarly/artistic transmission strategies associated with your chosen field.
You will develop the skills and knowledge required to make and justify decisions about appropriate strategies for sharing your work and to reflect on and critique your practice in a way that is appropriate for the field that your work is located in.
You may wish to explore a range of transmission strategies for scholarly and artistic work, including public lectures, broadcast, innovative performance strategies, networked arts transmission, exhibition, for example.
As part of the application process, you must submit a portfolio of music/creative work, including examples from your area of expertise (e.g.
performance, composition, songwriting, production, music technology, musicology, etc.).
This could be through links to an online repository or drive (e.g.
audio files, notations, videos, project reports, essays, and dissertations, as applicable), or links to publicly available work (e.g.
Bandcamp, Spotify, SoundCloud, YouTube, etc.).
Suitable candidates will be required to attend an interview with the Programme Leader.
Can I get admission into Music based on my working experience in this sector?
This programme has been designed to develop practical, scholarly, and critical skills, preparing students for a wide range of career opportunities.
This programme is also the ideal springboard for doctoral study.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/music/student-stories:
Student stories from those who have studied Music at Edinburgh Napier
Jordan Harvey Popular Music graduate and singer in King Calaway
The highlight for me is really the whole experience, being able to grow as a person and be more confident.
The lecturers accept you for who you are and help you find your own style.
Kadie-Rose Tarawally
BA (Hons) Popular Music student
Rebecca Tait BMus Music (Hons)

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/our-schools/school-of-arts-and-creative-industries/music-tech-academy:
A Music Tech School from the #2 UK modern university for Music.
(The Guardian University Guide 2023)
Aimed at music students aged 14-17, our highly practical courses focus on creating and producing music while also teaching valuable technical skills in the use of music software.
These courses explore music production, recording and music software through a series of project-based learning tasks.
Students learn how to use GarageBand, Logic Pro or Ableton Live – industry-standard software applications – to create their own original tracks and remixes.
The projects explored are adaptable to almost any music software and support can be provided for learners who wish to use their own software at home between classes.
Each course runs for 8 weeks at Edinburgh Napier University’s Merchiston campus and explores a different industry-standard software application.
The courses are taught using a flipped classroom methodology, where learners engage with preparative online activities and then consolidate their learning through completing the project tasks in class.
A Moodle Community virtual learning environment supports students’ learning through interaction with tutors, participants and online resources, and through sharing their own work and critiquing the work of others.
Our courses have been created to complement SQA Music Technology qualifications in secondary school, whilst providing additional depth and context to learning in this area.
Each week, you’ll receive access to a series of online preparatory materials to introduce projects and music production concepts.
Classes will be on Saturdays in the music department at Edinburgh Napier University’s Merchiston Campus, where the preparatory materials will be contextualised and you will be given time to collaborate and share your work.
Following these classes, you will be required to consolidate your learning by sharing your work online for feedback from tutors and peers.
£225 per course
For more information, please contact: MusicTechAcademy@napier.ac.uk
Follow us on social media:
Instagram and Facebook themusictechacademy
Twitter @napiermusictech
- James Sanderson, Music Tech Academy student 2019 and 2020
1st of 35 - The Guardian University Guide 2022, 1st of 43 - The Complete University Guide 2022

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/pgcert-epilepsy-studies-postgraduate-part-time:
This one year part-time course will introduce you to the key concepts in holistic epilepsy care management.
The programme aims to correlate to clinical practice and has been co-produced with clinical expert partners from across the UK and people with lived experience.
The Post Graduate Certificate in Epilepsy Studies will involve online tutorials, reflection, work-based learning and scheduled groupwork activities spanning three trimesters over one academic year.
As a part-time student you will study 2 compulsory modules: Exploring Evidence for Clinical Management of the Epilepsies and Epilepsy Work Based Learing .
A standard module is equivalent to 200 hours of learning.
You will also undertake personal research and complete a work based learning portfolio .
On completion of all elements you will receive the award of Post Graduate Certificate in Epilepsy Studies.
The programme is offered in a part time blended mode of study.
The blended element refers to entirely online delivery of Exploring Evidence for Clinical Management of the Epilepsies, in conjunction with the applicants own substantive post underpinning the requirements and learning within Epilepsy Work Based Learing.
The programme aims to develop your interest in and knowledge and understanding of Epilepsy to enable you to:
Upon successful enrolment, you will be provided with a dedicated programme handbook which contains all the information you need to know about your programme and studying at the University more generally.
You will also be given a student email account and provided with access to our student-focussed online information service MyNapier .
We will also introduce you to our virtual learning environment, known as Moodle , which enables you to engage and interact with a variety of learning support materials specific to your programme and the modules you will be studying.
In addition to receiving support from the programme teaching team you will be allocated a Personal Development Tutor (PDT) who will meet with you formally throughout your programme to ensure that your individual learning needs and aspirations are being met.
As a taught postgraduate student your Programme Leader is likely to serve as your PDT.
NOTE: If you are being sponsored by your employer, you will need to provide a Purchase Order Document prior to starting the course.
Please email this document to the Programme administrator: s.vetchkanova@napier.ac.uk .
Exploring Evidence for Clinical Management of the Epilepsies is delivered fully through online lecture environments, within which problem-based learning, case discussions and interprofessional peer-peer learning and reflection will enhance the disseminated core topics.
Group work and guided independent learning both academically and within clinical practice will build on this.
Interprofessional learning will be evident between nurses from different fields of practice, as well as programme materials, tasks and reflections underpinned by a variety of other professionals.
You will be supported to engage critically in the evidence base surrounding the field of epilepsy practice to augment your practice, and enable enhanced consideration and application of evidence-led skills and knowledge to promote positive outcomes.
The development of critical analysis skills and applications of the evidence base within a case report will form part of summative assessment.
Epilepsy Work Based Learning will incorporate a blended approach, whereby you will utilise your ongoing substantive post in clinical practice as a basis for reflection and development of skills.
Analysis of the roles of yourself and other members of the wider team will facilitate assessment of strengths and areas for development within the context of your own clinical practice.
Combining your knowledge from Exploring Evidence for Clinical Management of the Epilepsies will allow application of QI methodology to propose creative problem-based improvements to practice, underpinned by relevant strategic and policy drivers.
A portfolio of evidence comprising QI proposal and structured reflection will be the basis of summative assessment.
Work Based Learning promotes personal and professional reflection and enables you to enhance critical thinking and practice application of new and developing skills and knowledge.
Recognising your own knowledge and awareness of your existing knowledge and areas for development.
This module adopts a student-centred approach acknowledging your unique learning needs and styles as an adult learner.
The content and delivery is based on your own personal and professional motivation.You will build upon the learning within Exploring Evidence for Clinical Management of the Epilepsies, and through reflection on your own clinical practice experience.
Quality Improvement methodology will be explored and used to identify areas for outcome improvement within epilepsy care provision.You will be asked to build and collate a portfolio of evidence over the duration of the module, which will support you to incrementally build upon existing skills, knowledge and competence.
Self-assessment of competencies in epilepsy care management will be used to measure development.
Evaluation, exploration and application of reflective frameworks and models will help you to pause and reflect at key points during the module, then subsequently provide a written critical reflection, on your own development and action plan for continued professional development.
During this module you will be supported to explore theoretical content to develop your knowledge and understanding of the areas of clinical expertise required to work holistically with people living with the epilepsies; including but not limited to:•	Anatomy of the brain•	Pathophysiology, Aetiology, Epidemiology, Seizure classification•	Differential Diagnoses•	Treatment approaches and Research advances •	Epilepsy & Co-morbidities•	Psychological Impacts, Cognition, Memory, Sleep•	Sex Specific Considerations•	Risk, Safety & Sudden Unexpected Death in Epilepsy (SUDEP)You will begin this module with a level of existing experience within a field of practice pertaining to epilepsy and you will be enabled to link your existing and developing knowledge to clinical best practice guidelines and best-evidence to promote effective clinical care outcomes relevant to your own area of practice.You will be supported to develop your knowledge and understanding of the underpinning theory and best-practice indicators that support evidence-led, best practice holistic care for those living with the epilepsies.
You will demonstrate identification and support of people living with the epilepsies and potentiate positive outcomes within a dynamic healthcare environment.You will critically appraise the current research and evidence base to inform care delivery.
Both pharmacological and non-pharmacological nursing interventions will be evaluated in relation to your field of practice, considering the impact of holistic interventions on individuals, families, and social and support networks.
Assessment will take the form a case report, using a case example as a vehicle to examine the evidence base around best-practice clinical care outcomes for people with epilepsy; whilst allowing you to reflect upon, analyse and discuss some of the unique and holistic factors that influence the health and well-being of people living with one of the epilepsies.
This programme is intended for registered healthcare professionals who have clinical contact with people with a diagnosis of epilepsy.
Bachelors Degree in Nursing (any field) OR Registration as an allied healthcare professional (AHP) with documented clinical practice involvement working with people with the epilepsies.
Recognition of prior learning.
Entry with previous experience - If you can demonstrate that you have appropriate knowledge and skills you may be able to enter this programme.
You will be asked to reflect on your previous experience working with people with epilepsy; demonstrating skills, knowledge and understanding equivalent to that achieved on successful completion of a Bachelors degree with honours.
If you are being sponsored by your employer, you will need to provide a Purchase Order Document prior to starting the course.
This postgraduate qualification will enhance the practice and potential career prospects of any registered healthcare professional who has clinical contact with people with a diagnosis of epilepsy.
It will provide you with opportunities to develop and demonstrate your knowledge and understanding of Epilepsy and to develop your practical, critical, and analytical skills and attributes.
You will be able to:

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/pgcert-neonatal-care-qualified-in-speciality-postgraduate-part-time:
The programme is designed as multiprofessional mode of study, to enrich your knowledge of different aspects of neonatal care provision across the various professions involved in delivery of holistic neonatal and family centred care.
We aim to provide you with a teaching, learning and assessment experience that allows you to develop as a reflective practitioner who is in possession of in-depth knowledge of neonatal physiology and pathophysiology.
This understanding will also incorporate the application of global evidence-based care strategies which will support you in becoming a knowledgeable, competent, and skilled professional in your field of practice.
It also aims to develop you as a critical thinker.
We aim to provide you with teaching and learning experiences that will support your growth and development as a reflective and critical thinker who can apply research skills to neonatal care and contribute positively to neonatal practice.
This learning opportunity will not only focus on training for the demands of professional practice, but it will also explore the moral responsibilities that come with local, national and global citizenship.
This part-time blended online course will take up to a year to complete and is structured to support the student through their journey.
Your knowledge and understanding will be developed using a variety of online teaching, learning and assessment methods, utilising both asynchronous and synchronous learning opportunities.
Live lectures will be delivered using Microsoft Teams, allowing for live discussion with peers.
These synchronous activities will not only help you to develop specific discussion skills, but they will also help you to develop relationships with your fellow students.
Asynchronous activities will be set within each module site of the university’s virtual learning environment in the form of workbooks (learning materials and activities to engage the learner online), academic activities (such as reviewing literature; accessing, reviewing case studies and other learning resources, viewing podcasts and recorded sessions), peer and tutor led discussion boards, action learning sets and other forums for presenting/engaging in further discussion/review and application of learning.
These activities will be mounted within each module site within the university’s virtual learning environment.
The nature of these asynchronous learning activities means that you can complete these activities within a time rather than at a set time.
The programme is constructed using two distinct modules.
Knowledge gained in the first module, Special and Transitional Care of the Neonate is the foundation module and an underpinning component of the second module, High Dependency and Intensive Care of the Neonate .
The first 20 credit module Special and Transitional Care of the Neonate will focus on the newborn baby who requires care in a special or transitional neonatal care setting.
This module will support you in developing your knowledge and understanding of neonates as they transition to extra uterine life, together with the needs of their parents and families.
The content will be based on relevant, embryology and fetal development.
It will include exploration of maternal and perinatal factors that impact on the outcome of newborns as they adapt to extrauterine life.
There will be dedicated time spent revising normal physiology, then learning the altered physiology and the pathophysiology relevant to the newborn baby.
Alongside this, you will critically engage with the global evidence base which guides how we provide care and treatment options for these babies.
In the second 40-credit module High Dependency and Intensive Care of the Neonate your learning will be centered around complex physiology and pathological process related to the respiratory, cardiovascular, central nervous, endocrine, renal, gastrointestinal and immunological systems of the premature and ill neonate as they transition to extra uterine life.
This will enable you to recognise developing illness and initiate plans of care.
Alongside this, you will critically engage with the global evidence base which guides how you provide care and treatment options for these babies.
The principles of family integrated care will be critically appraised throughout, as will the concepts and practice of neonatal neuro developmental supportive care.
Lead academic Anne Moylan is programme and module leader.
She has extensive experience in neonatal care both nationally and internationally and a clinical career in neonatology spanning 35 years including many years as an advanced neonatal nurse practitioner.
As an educator she has taught within several universities in both Scotland and abroad, and is committed to developing and delivering neonatal education programmes that are committed to evidence based holistic care of the neonate and their families.
There is an assessment towards the end of each module.
You will be assessed through activities that require you to show knowledge, understanding, creativity skills and synthesise of research.
Assessment methods employed to assess core knowledge and understanding include self-assessment, written professional development activities, case studies and time limited, unseen examinations.
Skills and professional capabilities are assessed in your clinical practice area by way of completion of a set of professional specific capabilities.
What are the entry requirements for Neonatal Care Qualified in Speciality?
A bachelor’s degree in Nursing, Midwifery or a related Applied Health Profession and registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) or country specific professional registration body is required.
Your employer/manager MUST submit a statement of support and verify your health board is funding your studies.
They must also raise a purchase order (P.O.)  and send it to fees@napier.ac.uk who will issue an invoice for payment.
You will be unable to register for the programme unless this process is completed.
Other qualifications or experience which demonstrate through our recognition of prior learning process that you have appropriate knowledge and skills at SCQF level 10 may be considered on an individual basis.
Can I get admission into Neonatal Care Qualified in Speciality based on my working experience in this sector?
The university regrets that once fees are paid, there is no remuneration should student discontinue their studies.
We are unable to confirm the complete cost of the course as it is dependent on how many years you will study and what modules will be studied during the course.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/pgdip-in-midwifery-short-postgraduate-fulltime:
Applications are invited from adult nurses working in the following Health Boards for the two year PG DIP/MM short programme in midwifery.
Students on this programme will be recruited from the following Health Boards:
The above Boards have indicated interest in supporting at least one student, but applicants should be aware that final numbers and places have not yet been confirmed in each location.
This programme is funded by the Scottish Government and students will be paid a band 5 wage whilst studying.
Only adult nurses currently working in the above Boards are eligible to apply and will be placed for practice experience in their current employing Board.
Highlands Health Board is willing to consider applications from nurses elsewhere in Scotland who are willing to relocate to the Highland’s for the duration of the programme and for two years post qualification.
Please contact the Head of Midwifery in the Highlands if you would like to discuss this opportunity.
Please note that international students are unable to enroll onto this programme.
This programme is currently suspended at the moment.
Midwives provide skilled, knowledgeable, and compassionate care to women, newborn infants and their families.
Our postgraduate diploma in midwifery is subject to the ‘NMC Standards for pre-registration midwifery programmes’.
This requires that 50% of programme learning is theoretical and 50% is practical.
It aims to prepare you for practice as an accountable and autonomous midwife with a focus on:
Modules:
• Midwifery Practice: Art and Science • Examination and Care of the Newborn • Complex Care of Women and Newborn Infants • Practice Learning: Part 1
• Promoting Excellence in Midwifery Research and Practice • Management of Obstetric Emergencies and Midwifery Care • Midwifery Practice, Leadership and Personalised Care • Practice Learning Part 2
All modules are compulsory.
Theoretical content will be delivered online using a variety of interactive approaches.
Practice skills will be delivered in your health board.
Travel may be required for placements such as neonatal care.
A variety of assessments, including academic essays, reports, written examinations, and ongoing assessments in clinical placement.
What are the entry requirements for Midwifery (Short)?
The entry requirement for this course is a first degree or Honours degree.
Adult Nurse with current registration with the UK NMC.
Admission to the programme is dependent upon a satisfactory Protecting Vulnerable Groups Scheme (PVG) check.
Applications must be submitted using your NHS email address.
Alternatively, Occupational English Test with grade B in all components.
This programme is funded by the Scottish Government and students will be paid a band 5 wage by their Health Board whilst studying.
(Places are limited.)

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/our-schools/the-school-of-health-and-social-care/apply:
Is Nursing & Midwifery right for you?
Applying to Edinburgh Napier University
The selection process
Top tips for writing your statement
Interview
Clearing
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
Essential qualities for nurses and midwives:
It is strongly recommended that candidates arrange a visit to an appropriate care setting and speak with practising nurses, midwives and current students.
Literature about Nursing & Midwifery around the web can also provide useful background information.
Take some time to research the different specialisms of Nursing & Midwifery to decide which route you want to pursue.
If you already hold an undergraduate degree in another subject area, you may be interested in exploring these postgraduate routes:
Applications to our undergraduate Nursing & Midwifery programmes should be submitted online through UCAS .
You'll need the institution code (E59 ENU) and course code (available on individual course pages).
UCAS charges an administration fee of £13 to apply for a single course and £24 to apply for up to five courses.
After you apply, UCAS will confirm your application and send it to us for processing.
Candidates MUST check UCAS Track regularly for updates throughout the process.
Please note: The application process for our postgraduate Nursing courses is direct, with one intake each year in January.
We strongly recommend that you apply to Edinburgh Napier University for only ONE field of nursing OR midwifery.
In the first instance, your application will be examined to ensure you meet the appropriate academic criteria (available on individual course pages).
Next up is the personal statement.
This is your chance to shine!
It is an important and vital element of the selection process and can determine whether you'll be invited to interview.
•	Tell us what inspired you to apply for that course •	Demonstrate a clear understanding of the role of the nurse/midwife •	Include personal interests that relate to Nursing & Midwifery •	Add any relevant experience related to social or healthcare •	Show that you've done your research about the course •	Be truthful, accurate and enthusiastic •	Style your writing in a formal and easy to read manner •	Check your spelling and grammar
Please remember that every institution you apply to receives the same personal statement.
If Edinburgh Napier University is not the only one you are applying to, make sure you do not mention us or any other university by name.
This seems obvious, but it can come across as unprofessional and there is no guarantee you will be accepted by your first choice.
Watch our video for further guidance and tips on writing your personal statement.
If shortlisted, you'll receive an invitation by email.
This will be an online interview and will take approximately 2 hours.
The main selection activity is the group interview (with up to 12 candidates), lasting approximately one hour.
You will be asked to prepare a short verbal presentation (lasting 2-3 minutes) on a health-related topic and will be asked to consider what a nurse in your chosen field of practice, or midwife, can offer in this situation.
There will be an opportunity for wider discussion involving the whole group during the hour.
The group interview will be observed by at least two members of staff who will score your performance.
Demonstrating communication skills, verbal and non-verbal, is vital.
Insights relating to health and the role and activity of the nurse/midwife must be included.
In addition, the views, attitudes and values you express during the discussion will be noted.
The interview will also include an opportunity to chat with our current students to ask any questions you may have.
There will also be a short private conversation with a member of the Recruitment Team.
Clearing is another opportunity to find a place at university if you don't have any offers (or none you want to accept).
Clearing is available from 5 July and allows prospective students to submit applications to courses that still have availability.
Visit our dedicated Clearing pages to find out more.
We’re the only university in Edinburgh to offer three year courses in Nursing & Midwifery.
If you have been a resident in Scotland for a minimum of 3 years and have permission to stay,  your fees would be paid by the Scottish government and you could also benefit from a non means-tested, non-repayable annual bursary of £10,000 per year for the duration of your course.
Read more in our Overview of Nursing and Midwifery Bursaries .
If you live in England, Wales or Northern Ireland, there are various other bursaries available.
98.9% of our pre-registration Nursing & Midwifery students go straight into work or further study within six months of graduating (HESA 2016/17).
In the UK, 16% of Learning Disability Nurse roles are vacant, so qualified Learning Disability Nursing graduates are highly sought after.
Care isn’t limited to hospitals.
Nurses and midwives work in varied inpatient and community settings including schools, prisons, care homes and third sector organisations.
These settings are as varied as the profession itself.
Caring has no gender.
With over 70,000 male nurses and midwives currently in the UK workforce (and even more in training), we are building a care system as diverse as the people who use it.
You’re never too old to care!
25% of nursing and midwifery students at Edinburgh Napier are over 30.
However, if you are concerned, we offer advice and support on a range of topics including childcare and placements, so you have everything you need to succeed.
Interviews this year will be online interviews which will last approximately 2 hours.
You will be asked to prepare a short verbal presentation (2-3 minutes) on a health related topic and will be asked to consider what a nurse in your chosen field of practice, or midwife, can offer in this situation.
At present we are mostly teaching online, however there are also some mandatory face-to-face classes.
We hope to increase the on campus classes as public health guidance allows.
In addition to this, 50% of your time in each year is spent out on placement.
Students have two placements in clinical practice each year.
In preparation, time will be spent in our Simulation and Clinical Skills Centre (SCSC) .
All students will have placements across Lothian and the Borders.
Child Health and Midwifery students also have placements in Fife and Forth Valley.
Learning Disability students may have placements up the east coast of Scotland.
This is to give you a wide experience of specialty and service delivery across different geographical locations.
If you have any questions about the application process, please call our advisor of studies on 0131 455 5382 or email nursingandmidwifery@napier.ac.uk.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/nursing-and-midwifery/returning-to-education:
Full information about entry requirements can be found on each of our course pages .
With the exception of a degree, any qualifications you have must be held within the last 5 years.
We will consider older qualifications if you have at least 1 year’s full-time or 2 years’ part-time work experience in a related role, such as a care support worker.
In this case, once you receive your offer, following your interview, we will send details about refresher modules in biology and numeracy that you will be required to take.
If your qualifications are more than 5 years old and you do not have a degree or relevant work experience, we suggest going to college to do a related Higher National Certificate or Access Course first.
Edinburgh Napier has partnership agreements with 4 local Colleges – Borders, Edinburgh, Fife and West Lothian, who run access courses for entry to Adult, Learning Disability, Child and Mental Health Nursing.
Over 100 students study preparation to nursing and midwifery courses at our partner colleges each year.
All students attending our Access to Nursing course within our partnership colleges (excluding Edinburgh College) are required to pass the internally assessed graded units with overall profile grades BBC.
For Edinburgh College, internally assessed units are not graded, so applicants would be required to pass all internally assessed units.
Students on Access to Nursing courses are not considered for the midwifery course.
Please see the Entry Requirements section of our Midwifery course page for further information of what we do accept for entry onto this course.
We’re often asked if students who have already studied for a degree can still receive the Nursing and Midwifery Student Bursary (NMSB) for students normally domiciled in Scotland.
If your previous degree was not related to nursing/midwifery you should still be eligible for this bursary.
For further information please visit the SAAS website.
If you already have a degree in the field of Nursing and Midwifery, we also offer postgraduate courses that you may be eligible for.
Browse a range of full-time, part-time and distance learning courses here .
Our nursing and midwifery courses are all full time courses.
50% of your time is spent learning theory at university/online and 50% of your time will be spent on practice placements.
Placements can be challenging for students with children or other caring responsibilities.
You will be expected to work the same core shifts as the team with which you’re working, and this can involve weekend work and night shifts.
These placements are mandatory and we cannot make individual adjustments due to childcare.
Depending on the field of nursing you choose, placements may not always be in the Lothian area, so some travelling should also be expected.
We offer as much support as possible through our student support services , and we have had many nursing and midwifery students in this position who successfully complete our courses.
There is also extra funding to help with the costs of childcare.
SAAS provide funding for students domiciled in Scotland.
This includes Dependant’s Allowance, Single Parent’s Allowance and Childcare Allowance for Parents.
Full information can be found on the SAAS website .
We offer a wide range of student support to help you fulfil your potential, keep healthy and make the most of your time with us.
Our dedicated Student Support Teams are there to listen, offer guidance and point you in the right direction.
We also have a dedicated page for advice and support on the current Cost of Living .
When you begin your nursing or midwifery studies, you will be given a personal development tutor who will work with you for the duration of your course, for both personal and professional support.
We also have a large and diverse cohort of nursing and midwifery students, so you’re likely to meet people in similar circumstances who you’ll get on with.
We know peer support is also key for our students, throughout your studies and beyond.
Learn more about our state-of-the-art Simulation and Clinical Skills Centre, browse courses and hear from our students.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/nursing-and-midwifery/practice-learning-experiences:
Why do student nurses go on placements?
Experience in a practice learning setting really helps students to identify how the theory they learn at university links to the work of nurses and midwives in everyday clinical practice.
Across all fields of nursing and midwifery, you therefore spend 50% of the programme learning theory and the other 50% is practice-based learning.
Practice-based learning takes place both through simulation in our Simulation and Clinical Skills Centre (napier.ac.uk) - which includes life-like hospital wards, a home setting and a midwifery suite - and practice placements.
The kind of practice placements students undertake differ according to their field of practice.
Settings can include schools, hospitals, community teams, specialist nursing services, hospices and third sector organisations.
All students will attend sessions in the Simulation and Clinical Skills Centre to build up the core skills and knowledge needed to hit the ground running when out on practice placement .
How many placements will I do as a pre-registration nursing student?
There are six practice learning placements integrated throughout each nursing programme .
Practice Learning 1-5 will be planned by the University to ensure that everyone can meet all mandatory elements and have a varied learning experience – everyone’s journey will be different.
Practice Learning 6 is currently where students are offered the opportunity to express a note of interest in the area they will attend for their final experience within the approved practice learning partners.
Our maps below show the area where you will potentially be placed depending on your chosen programme.
Attendance at placement will involve travel - If you are entitled to the SAAS student nurse bursary, you will be able to claim back travel expenses subject to conditions.
How many placements will I do as a p re-registration midwifery student?
There are seven practice learning modules integrated throughout the pre-registration midwifery programmes.
Practice Learning is planned by the University to ensure that everyone can meet all mandatory elements and have a varied learning experience – everyone’s journey will be different.
Our map below shows the areas where you will potentially be placed: in NHS Lothian, NHS Borders, NHS Forth Valley, or NHS Fife.
Settings can include hospitals, community teams, and specialist nursing services.
Points to remember
You might find it helpful to look at associated guidance and advice from the Royal College of Nursing and The Scottish Government
Questions
If you have any immediate questions around placements during your training, or any other aspect of your application, please contact our advisor of studies on 0131 455 5382 or email: nursingandmidwifery@napier.ac.uk
Some of our students give you an idea of  what to expect on the courses.
1:04
0:59

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/about-us/our-schools/the-school-of-health-and-social-care/simulation-and-clinical-skills-centre/continuing-professional-development-courses:
Courses taught in the Simulation and Clinical Skills Centre:
Credit-bearing stand-alone modules to develop your knowledge in a specialism area:
Other courses:
We offer the following first aid courses:
Our first aid training courses provide the complete set of practical skills needed to become confident first aiders.
Our courses meet the standards required to help comply with Health and Safety (first aid) regulations.
All of our instructors are also qualified nurses and our courses are taught in our simulated state of the art healthcare environment.
We offer Resuscitation Council (UK) approved Immediate Life Support courses.
The course is suitable for a range of healthcare professionals including doctors, medical students, nurses, nursing students, midwives and healthcare providers such as physiotherapists, dentists and ambulance technicians.
This is a one day course and assessment is continuous and guided by the assessment forms for each core skill.
Successful participants will receive a Resuscitation Council (UK) ILS provider certificate, which is valid for one year.
For further information, please email cpd@napier.ac.uk
This undergraduate course is a successful collaboration between Edinburgh Napier University and The National Autistic Society .
A blended learning approach is utilised for this module, which includes 6 mornings of live online teaching with National Autistic Society Lecturers and further learning online.
The course will run over 3 weeks, with live online teaching each Monday and Tuesday morning (9.00 to 12.30).
The assessment (a case study essay) will allow you to reflect upon your own practice, and use the knowledge you gain to further improve the support you offer to autistic people.
For further information, please email Caroline Paton or visit our dedicated webpage .
The credits you achieve from our continuing professional development courses can be put towards achieving an MSc in Advanced Clinical Practice in nursing or midwifery.
If you are looking to step up in your career take a look at the topics you can specialise your MSc in at Edinburgh Napier.
9 Sighthill Court Edinburgh EH11 4BN
0131 455 3555
Innovative, collaborative practice, policy and research to gain expertise in working across health and justice contexts
A two-day online workshop to refresh your practice educator/link worker knowledge and skills.
This CPD short course will allow you to advance your Allied Health Professional practice, in partnership with people living with dementia.
The Clinical Support Worker Accelerated Route Into Nursing (CARING) Course
A bespoke course for qualified social workers working within Scotland and registered with the SSSC.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/nursing-and-midwifery/home-of-caring-big-time:
Each year we train thousands of nurses and midwives who are dedicated to making a difference for us, our families, friends and communities.
While studying with us, we make sure that the nurses and midwives of the future experience a caring and supportive environment that helps them to thrive.
We look after them, so they can look after us all.
Learn more about the Home of Caring Big Time from our students, staff and alumni.
0.59
"I had some fantastic opportunities on placements and met some lovely people who supported and guided me throughout my degree." - Cara Jane Jones, 3rd year Adult Nursing student
I just like the support [at ENU] that I've seen and heard about from many other previous nurses."
Lisa Waldie
3rd year Adult Nursing student
We are one of the largest providers of Nursing and Midwifery education in Scotland.
Our School of Health & Social Care provides a vibrant teaching environment for over 2,500 students, delivering a unique learning experience that ensures you gain the skills and qualifications needed to become a Nursing and Midwifery Council registrant when you graduate.
You’ll learn in some of the best teaching facilities in the country, including our purpose-built Simulation and Clinical Skills Centre, which is run by a specialist team of nurses, doctors and midwives, and covers several practice areas - from community and critical care to general and labour wards.
These facilities will help you gain experience relevant to all employers.
Our links with local healthcare providers can provide placements, where you can put theory into practice in the real world.
Every student at Edinburgh Napier is assigned a Personal Development Tutor (PDT) during the first few weeks.
You can check in with them and ask questions confidentially about study, life, or anything else.
Whatever you may need, your PDT will help you find the right support!
On top of this, the School of Health and Social Care have a Student Experience team who offer tailored support for busy student nurses and midwives in university and while on placement.
Their priority is to ensure students have the best possible experience while training to become a nurse or midwife.
This is Jenny!
Jenny is our Student Experience Advisor for the School of Health and Social Care.
It’s people like Jenny who help make sure our students have the best experience possible – whether it’s in the classroom, clinical skills centre, on placement or outside of university.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/nursing-and-midwifery/shsc-case-studies:
00:17
00:31
Midwifery
Adult Nursing
Child Health Nursing
Learning Disability Nursing
Mental Health Nursing
Ewan Mccoll, Midwifery student, explains why he chose to study Midwifery at Edinburgh Napier University.
Ross McNab, Adult Nursing student, talks about the support available during placement.
Ronny Reid, Adult Nursing student, talks about his experience returning to education as a mature student.
Nina Childs, Adult Nursing student, talks about how her ADHD diagnosis did not stop her from enrolling into her dream course at Edinburgh Napier University.
Matthew Lam, Adult Nursing student, reflects on the benefits of guest lecturers.
Iwetta Radkiewicz, Adult Nursing student, talks about the support available at Edinburgh Napier University.
Keith Page, Adult Nursing student, explains why being a male nurse is an advantage.
Harry Shivmangal, Adult Nursing student, reflects on what drew him to nursing.
Chino Chukwubike, Adult Nursing student, talks about his experience studying at Edinburgh Napier University
Cassandra Shaw, Adult Nursing student, recounts how her values have come to the fore.
Fizza Hussain, Adult Nursing student, shares what inspired her career change and how rewarding the profession can be.
Nicole Clarke, Adult Nursing student, on how working on placement makes everything click.
Megan Sutherland, Adult Nursing student, reflects on her passion for caring for others and how that lead her into the profession.
Hazel Reid, Learning Disabilities Nursing student, reflects on her experience studying at Edinburgh Napier University.
Adult Nursing student, Rachael Quinn, explains why she is loving her nursing experience
Adult Nursing student, Beth Shearer, talks about her experiences studying at Edinburgh Napier University
Adult Nursing alumnus, Rebecca Gates, talks about her career journey since graduating.
Cancer survivor and Adult Nursing graduate, Ellie Lamb, talks about finding a love for nursing whilst enduring treatment herself.
Pullin award winner and Adult Nursing graduate, Joanna MacDonald, describes working in a hospital during Covid-19
Chelsea Oliphant, Child Health Nursing student, tells us how a chance encounter inspired her career change.
Chloe Ferris, Child Nursing graduate, shares her experience from her final year placement in Tanzania.
Jack Souter, Learning Disability Nursing student, talks about his experiences improving patient wellbeing.
Jodie Tocher, Learning Disability Nursing student, explains what led her to her current path and why she chose Edinburgh Napier University.
Tracey Gilhooley-Rutherford, Learning Disability Nursing student discusses her experience returning to education after some time away.
Learning Disability Nursing alumnus, Taylor Hume, talks about his career journey since graduating.
David McGuire, Mental Health Nursing student, explains the goals of his career path.
Fiona Mair, Mental Health Nursing student, shares her experience of her placement in Kathmandu, Nepal.
Lesley Murray, third year Mental Health Nursing student, reflects on her journey to becoming a student again.
Mental Health Nursing student, Claire Lynott, discusses her interest in the practical placements offered and having a baby at the start of her course.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/study-with-us/postgraduate/postgraduate-events:
Our Postgraduate Information Events are usually held in February and November on weekday evenings.
Our next event will be 20 November 2025, 4-7pm and is a campus event held at our Merchiston Campus .
Our external event will be 26 February 5pm – 7pm , and we're returning to be hosted by Johnnie Walker Princes Street .
Join us at an event to get the information that you need to pursue your passion.
At our Postgraduate Information Evening, you can:
Watch the video to get a feel for the event and register now to get all the information you need to attend.
Find your postgraduate course
Click here to browse our courses.
You can filter by study level and subject area to find the right course for you.
Explore postgraduate study
Click here to discover what it's like to study as a postgraduate.
Hear from our students past and present, whilst also learning about the courses and tools on offer to help you advance with a Masters.
Take a campus tour
If you can't make an Open Day, all three campuses have tours that run most weeks.
Click here to find out more.
Want to get some inside knowledge?
Our students are waiting to answer your questions personally.
Complete the form below to register and we'll send you updates about our Postgraduate Information Event.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/msc-applied-sport-science-postgraduate-full-time:
Are you passionate about advancing your career in applied sport science?
Our MSc programme blends cutting-edge academic knowledge with hands-on, real-world experience—preparing you to thrive as a sport science practitioner.
You’ll explore the scientific principles of athletic performance, develop key academic and professional skills, and tailor elements of the course to your specific interests.
Throughout the programme, you’ll gain expertise in planning and executing research, critically analysing current practices, and applying a wide range of sport science techniques.
Learning takes place in our designated research, physiology, biomechanics, and environmental laboratories, providing the ideal environment for applied learning and experimentation.
But it doesn’t stop there — you’ll also have full access to our excellent gym and sports hall facilities, supporting both your academic and practical development.
Please contact the programme leader Dr Lesley Ingram-Sills , for any questions you have about the course.
The typical entry point to this course is in September.
The MSc Applied Sport Science offered an excellent variety of modules and a high level of expertise that was delivered with a focus on education relevant to applied, real-world careers.
Ally Velzian
Physical Preparation Coach, The Scottish Institute of Sport
The course extended my theoretical knowledge while enhancing soft skills and ability to apply science.
The content has advanced my coaching skills and formed the foundations of my current practice.
Rachel Thomson
Physical Performance Coach at Liverpool FC Women
Having been able to  learn from highly specialised staff from various disciplines within the sport science department has increased confidence and skills in applied sport science.
Aaron Shields
Academy physical performance coach, Ipswich Town
Napier was crucial for my professional development.
The practical, hands-on approach has proven to be invaluable and allowed me to transition seamlessly into the professional sports environment.
Mat Skyner
Head Strength & Conditioning Coach, Old Glory DC
The MSc in Applied Sport Science is designed to give you a deep and practical understanding of how scientific principles underpin athletic performance and practitioner support.
Whether you’re looking to advance your current career or enter the field, this programme will develop the academic, professional, and applied skills required to thrive in a wide range of sport science roles.
You’ll explore key areas such as physiology, biomechanics, and performance analysis, while also having the flexibility to tailor aspects of your learning to your specific interests.
Throughout the course, we’ll help you strengthen not only your technical and research abilities — including planning, designing, and executing studies — but also essential soft skills needed for success in real-world environments.
A standout feature of this programme is the work-based placement, where you’ll put your knowledge into action in a professional setting.
Student placement opportunities have been a key highlight of the course, with past placements including major national governing bodies such as the Scottish FA, Scottish Rugby, Cricket Scotland, Scottish Gymnastics, and the Scottish Mountain Bike Centre.
Students have also gained experience with professional clubs and performance environments including Hearts Women’s FC, Hibernian FC, Greenock Morton FC, Boroughmuir Bears, Watsonians Super Series Rugby, and the Lost Shore Surf Resort.
Work-based learning options are wide-ranging and not limited to these examples, reflecting the programme’s strong industry connections and the diverse career pathways available.
You will be taught by:
Our MSc programme is designed to provide you with laboratory and field-based research experience.
This is a one-year full time course that is split into three semesters and delivered on campus.
You will learn by a variety of teaching methods including lectures, tutorials, group work, laboratory work, practical sessions, independent study and professional placements.
Find more information about our sports facilities at Edinburgh Napier University here .
Find out more about our work with Mark Beaumont .
In this module you will learn how to develop your professional practice skills in order to enhance your applied sport science practice.
You will explore key skills that are fundamental building blocks in your development as an applied sport scientist.
These will include leadership approaches, styles and values; advanced communication skills and reflective learning.
This module will also include significant research time, where you will work independently with a supervisor to develop the methodology for your own research project (this will be completed in trimester 3).
Within this section of the module, you will develop skills relating to assessing risk, safeguarding, project planning, scientific methodology and consideration of limiting factors, data management and ethical considerations.
Contemporary issues within the discipline will also be explored and you will develop a skill set of understanding how research contributes to existing knowledge and practice in the applied sport science setting.
Through engaging in a work placement or work based learning experience related to the module you will explore issues such as, evidence based-practice, engagement with partners and people, resources and reporting, professional relationships, effective communication, self-reflection, observation and evaluation of practice with respect to contemporary literature, quality assurance, governance, monitoring and evaluation of injury and/or performance, physical activity and health or sport opportunities, terminology, exercise screening, exercise assessment, functional assessment, targeted and tailored interventions, person-centred interventions, data collection and reporting, monitoring athletes, safety considerations; delegated responsibility, professional boundaries, continuing professional development.
These components may be related to the area in which you are working.
You will relate your work experience to the academic content of your MSc programme and reflect on the value of prior learning.
You will focus on self-assessment, write personal learning outcomes, and engage in reflective practice to enhance confidence and employability.
Reflective practice and critical thinking are key to your submissions for this module.
In this module you will learn about the process of knowledge construction and evaluation in contemporary sport and exercise science.
You will examine a range of epistemological approaches and explore the philosophical implications of adopting different methods of constructing knowledge.
You will look at issues around research design, including an examination of ethical and governance issues.
You will critically examine the methods by which research is conducted, looking at the internationally accepted guidelines for randomised controlled trials and other prominent methodologies in the sport and exercise science literature.
You will examine the contemporary debates around null-hypothesis significance testing (NHST) and magnitude based statistics and also examine the anticipated development of data synthesis techniques.
Sport and exercise science is also an applied endeavor and students need to be capable of effectively disseminating complex technical data to a lay audience.During hands on laboratory sessions you will use the Statistical Package for Social Scientists (SPSS) and learn how to make decisions about the use of appropriate statistical tests and how to interpret the analysis outputs.
In this module you will conduct an independent piece of research, either as a practical laboratory or field based project, or a piece of qualitative research (e.g.
interviews, focus groups, surveys).
This involves the design, development and implementation of a programme of research in a particular field of study relevant to your programme of study.
You will critically analyse data/information generated, and communicate the outcomes in a written report, which will develop your skills in scientific writing.
This will give you experience in summarising information and presentation skills.
This module includes: Structured on-line literature searches.
Literature review.
Project formulation.
Hypothesis generation.
Experimental design.
Development of practical skills/research technique.
Data generation/collection and analysis.
Use of appropriate statistical analysis.
Evaluation of findings, critical analysis, synthesis and conclusions, with reference to supporting literature.
Communication of original research results in a report written in the style of a scientific paper.
In this module you will be provided with an understanding of the philosophical basis of science and how scientific knowledge is constructed.
Building on this, the core theoretical and applied skills in the discipline areas within sport science will be contextualised in relation to performance enhancement in sport.
This will be achieved by you learning about the perspectives of different disciplines within sport science and also the perspectives of specialists from the broader sport science support team, such as strength and conditioning coaches, technical coaches, video analysts and sports medicine specialists.
This module will help you develop competencies that will enable you to apply for BASES supervised experience and ultimately accreditation.
What are the entry requirements for Applied Sport Science?
The entry requirement for this course is a Bachelor (Honours) Degree at a 2:2 or above, or equivalent.
We look for candidates to have a background in Sport Science, Sport and Exercise Science, Coaching Science and Physiotherapy or other biological science degrees that contains a substantial element of exercise physiology/ psychology in order to be eligible for this programme.
Can I get admission into Applied Sport Science based on my working experience in this sector?
By studying applied sport science at Edinburgh Napier University, you will develop the academic, practical and soft skills to become a sports science practitioner, go into a research-based career or even onto PhD study.
Many of our graduates have been employed by the Scottish Institute of Sport, National governing bodies including the Scottish Football Association, Scottish Rugby Union, Scottish Canoe and CIMSPA.
Many students are now applied sport scientists in football and rugby internationally.
You may also work in settings such as the NHS.
By studying this course, you will become a strong communicator, allowing you to critically analyse and design, plan and execute your own research studies.
If you are an analytical thinker who enjoys team working and wants to learn more about applied sport science, then this might be the right course for you.
As a performance sport scientist, you will be responsible for uncovering athletic success through science.
You will aim to enhance athletes’ performance through biomechanics, nutrition, sport psychology and physiology to optimise their training programme.
You will most likely use a range of lab equipment, technology and measurement tools.
In this role, you will be expected to be an excellent communicator, and have strong analytical, practical and problem-solving skills.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-football-coaching-performance-and-development-undergraduate-fulltime:
This degree programme – the first of its kind in Scotland - has been designed in collaboration with the Scottish Football Association to provide an holistic view of coaching within a football setting, using evidence based knowledge and learning to support the UEFA awards embedded into each year of the degree.
At all times considering reality-based learning.
Upon successful completion of the programme, you will be a degree qualified coach in the many different facets of football, whilst also graduating with the UEFA C, UEFA B and UEFA Youth B licence qualifications.
In your 4th year of study, you will be able to specialise by carrying out a relevant piece of research and where appropriate, start working towards your UEFA A Licence, UEFA Elite Youth A Licence, or UEFA Goalkeeping B, as an integral part of the Work-Based Learning module.
You will gain experience in Performance Analysis using Hudl – the world-leading sports analysis software.
In addition, upon successful completion of modules relating to Performance Analysis and appropriate experience within a performance analysis role, you will be eligible for certification through Hudl Academy and accreditation to the International Society for Performance Analysis of Sport (ISPAS) at levels 1 and 2 (membership fee payable to ISPAS by individuals).
You will be supported to find suitable voluntary work place experiences throughout your degree aligned to your stage of development through our own contacts and those of the Scottish FA.
These will enable you to further develop your skills on and off the pitch, gaining valuable insight into the working practices of clubs at different levels of football from grassroots to professional.
C6R5
5.38
4.59
This degree will enable you to become an evidence-based practitioner and as such, is taught with a significant emphasis on developing applied skills, based on scientific evidence specifically aligned to reality-based learning and specific football workforce needs.
You will become an independent, self-reflective practitioner capable of integrating into relevant employment upon graduation.
Fees agreed for the September 2024 cohort (fixed and subsidised by both Edinburgh Napier University and Scottish FA) are detailed below.
The typical fee for each coaching licence will be subsidised, but students should expect to cover the costs of these awards as above, either individually or via your club or organisation.
In addition, upon successful completion of the modules relating to Performance Analysis and appropriate experience within a performance analysis role, you will be eligible for accreditation to the International Society for Performance Analysis of Sport (ISPAS) at levels 1 and 2 (membership fee payable to ISPAS by individuals).
What are the entry requirements for Football Coaching and Development?
In addition to meeting the academic criteria, applicants will normally be expected to demonstrate in their personal statement that they have relevant coaching experience showing a commitment to a career in this industry.
Where applicants do not meet the academic criteria, extensive coaching experience may be taken into consideration in lieu of formal qualifications.
As part of the application process you will also be asked to join us at Edinburgh Napier to be part of an interview, after which you will be involved in a live coaching session with other applicants.
In addition to the above academic requirements, you will require the following football specific awards prior to course commencement; Scottish FA Mental Health Award AND the Scottish FA Children’s Wellbeing Coaching Award.
In addition to the above academic requirements you require the following football specific awards prior to course commencement; Scottish FA Mental Health Award AND the Scottish FA Children’s Wellbeing Coaching Award.
In addition to the above academic requirements you require the following football specific awards prior to course commencement; Scottish FA Mental Health Award AND the Scottish FA Children’s Wellbeing Coaching Award.
In addition to the above academic requirements you require the following football specific awards prior to course commencement;
UEFA C Licence (or equivalent, such as the Scottish FA C Licence)
UEFA B Licence

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-physical-activity-and-health-undergraduate-fulltime:
A 2012 study in the Lancet highlighted that inactivity is the fourth leading risk factor for non-communicable, chronic disease such as cardiovascular disease, types of cancer, obesity and type 2 diabetes and accounts for over 3 million preventable deaths per year.
This includes depressive symptoms and poor mental well-being.
The NHS is overrun with these diseases, but in many cases they can be effectively prevented or managed through physical activity.
Yet, in 2020, 54% of adults in Scotland were not achieving the minimum levels of physical activity, based on our government guidelines .
Our degree has been developed to teach our students how physical activity and exercise can do this.
There is the opportunity to undertake a work placement as part of this course.
We have developed this multidisciplinary degree in line with the professional standards set out by CIMSPA and it delivers exactly what employers are looking for.
We will help you develop your scientific understanding and practical skills for a successful career in the health and fitness industry or postgraduate study.
We are the #1 University in Edinburgh for overall student satisfaction for five years in a row (NSS 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023 & 2024).
C6C8
The Placement allowed me to apply the knowledge and understanding I gained from my studies into a practical setting within a multidisciplinary team of professionals and volunteers.
Callum Mcquade
Our Physical Activity and Health course has been developed with you in mind.
It will provide you with the knowledge and skills to study and analyse the various aspects of physical activity/exercise and health in relation to different population groups, ensuring that you'll have both a firm theoretical and vocational grounding in the subjects that underpin the health and exercise industry.
You'll learn about the impact of physical inactivity on health and disease, and the methods for tackling health-related issues in non-exercise populations and the attached benefits.
There is a strong emphasis on the practical application of theoretical knowledge and the course has CIMSPA endorsed vocational standards embedded within it covering:
You'll also gain independent study habits, academic and employability skills and volunteer opportunities that will develop your understanding and skills in the area of physical activity and health.
All students are required to gain the CIMSPA level 2 Gym Instructor to undertake placements as part of this course in Year 3.
There is an additional cost for this, currently offered at a subsidised rate of £300 if the student takes the qualification through Edinburgh Napier’s own short course .
(This subsidy does not apply if you choose to take the certificate through an external provider.) Direct entrants/mature students entering at any level who already have the level 2 Gym Instructor, or CIMSPA Gym Instructor Professional Standard, will need to provide an officially recognised certificate as proof of pre-qualification.
(The level of qualification needs to fully meet the CIMSPA professional standard.)
As a full-time student you will study 120 credits in each year, and a standard 20 credit module is equivalent to 200 hours of learning.
You will also undertake personal research and complete a final year project.
Formative and summative assessment play a very prominent role in the programme, as do practical assessments.
Regular individual and group presentation of projects are conducted to tutors, peers and, where appropriate, external bodies.
At the time of writing we are developing many more new opportunities , but current examples are Edinburgh Leisure, Health All Round, Macmillan Cancer Support – e.g.
Move More Programme.
German Sport University, Cologne, and institutions in the USA.
*** All below are compulsory modules:
What are the entry requirements for Physical Activity and Health?
HND Next Gen
*Sports Coaching with Development of Sport, Coaching and Developing Sport, Sports Coaching and Development,  Sports & Exercise Science, Applied Sports Science, Applied Biological Sciences, Fitness, Health and Exercise.
In addition, you must pass one of the below units from each section:
One of the following: Mechanics for Health and Fitness Professional (DW64 35) Sports Mechanics (FX9L 35) (DD2T 35) Human Anatomy, Physiology and Biomechanics in Sport (J2AP 34) AND (one of the following): Psychology of Sports Performance (FX9V 35) Psychology of Sports Coaching (FW61 34) Psychology of Sport and Exercise (J422 34) Applied Psychology in Sport and Exercise Performance (J429 35)
Studying Physical Activity & Health at Edinburgh Napier University equips you with a diverse skill set that can lead to various career paths in fields related to health promotion, fitness, education, research, and more.
This multidisciplinary and professional degree sets you up for a successful career in industry and you’ll also be well-placed for postgraduate study in a variety of disciplines which could include applied sport science, clinical exercise science/physiology, physiotherapy, health and social care, teaching, or research.
Not only will you walk away with a range of specific physical activity & health knowledge and skills, but it is not restrictive.
You will gain many highly desirable transferable (meta) skills, including teamwork, communication, writing, and data analysis, which are valued by employers within, but also outside the Health & Fitness sector.
A Physical Activity & Exercise Consultant typically works with individuals or groups to develop and implement tailored exercise programs aimed at improving overall health and fitness in communities.
However, this course could also lead to a range of career and further postgraduate study options, including:
AND:

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-physical-activity-and-health-undergraduate-parttime:
There is a strong emphasis on the practical application of theoretical knowledge and the course has six CIMSPA endorsed vocational standards embedded within it:
Lectures, applied practical laboratory sessions, tutorials, independent study.
*Fitness, Health and Exercise, Sports & Exercise Science, Applied Sports Science, Applied Biological Science, Sports Coaching, Sports Coaching and Development of Sport.
*Sports Coaching with Development of Sport, Coaching and Developing Sport, Sports Coaching and Development,  Sports & Exercise Science, Applied Sports Science, Applied Biological Sciences, Fitness, Health and Exercise

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-sport-and-exercise-science-undergraduate-fulltime:
This course will provide you with a sound grounding within the three core areas essential to any applied sports scientist, being Exercise Physiology, Biomechanics and Sports Psychology.
Alongside these key areas, you will also gather an introduction to other essential components and gain practical experience that will enable you to develop skills that will benefit any level of performer.
C600
2:39
Our Sport Science degree will start out with teaching you all about the principles and seeing how these apply to the improvement of sport performance.
As you move through the course, you will gain skills in collecting and interpreting data from specialist areas including: exercise physiology, biomechanics and nutrition.
We focus on independent learning and the preparation to carry out scientific studies in the associated areas to help you to become a confident applied Sports Scientist.
Face-to-face lectures, applied practical classes, workshops, tutorials
Some previous placements have included: Performance Analyst for Partick Thistle; Strength & Conditioning Coach for Edinburgh Rugby; Sport Science Support for Hibernian FC; Active Schools Coaching.
You'll have opportunities to study abroad.
We have links with the following universities:
Placement and Study Abroad opportunities are subject to UK and Scottish Government health and travel advice
Current Issues in Sporting Performance
Scientific Communication Review and Statistics
Safeguarding and Working with Vulnerable Populations in a Sport and Exercise Environment
What are the entry requirements for Sport and Exercise Science?
*Fitness, Health and Exercise, Sport & Exercise Science, Applied Sports Science, Applied Biological Science, Sports Coaching, Sports Coaching with Development of Sport, Sports Therapy, Sports Therapy (Soft Tissue Therapy).
*Sports Coaching with Development of Sport, Coaching and Developing Sport, Sports Coaching and Development, Sports & Exercise Science, Applied Sports Science, Applied Biological Sciences, Fitness, Health and Exercise
By studying Sport and Exercise Science at Edinburgh Napier University you will gain applied knowledge in exercise physiology, biomechanics, and sports psychology.
This degree will give you a versatile foundation for careers in sports, health, fitness, education, and research, allowing you to pursue roles that align with your interests and strengths within the broad field of exercise science and sports performance.
Not only will you walk away with a range of sports and exercise science knowledge and skills, but it is not restrictive.
You will gain many highly desirable transferable (meta) skills, including teamwork, communication, writing, and data analysis, which are valued by employers within, but also outside the Sports industry.
A Strength and Conditioning Specialist optimises athletes' physical performance through the design and implementation of training programs aimed at enhancing strength, speed, endurance, flexibility, and overall athletic capabilities.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-sport-and-exercise-science-undergraduate-parttime:
There is the opportunity to undertake a work placement as part of this course, some previous placements have included: Performance Analyst for Partick Thistle; Strength & Conditioning Coach for Edinburgh Rugby; Sport Science Support for Hibernian FC; Active Schools Coaching.
*Fitness, Health and Exercise, Sport & Exercise Science, Applied Sports Science, Applied Biological Science, Sports Coaching, Sports Coaching with Development of Sport, Sports Therapy (Soft Tissue Therapy).

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-sports-coaching-undergraduate-fulltime:
Our Sports Coaching course will help you to become a modern professional coach with an understanding of how sports science principles apply to athletic performance and helps athletes reach their potential and indeed their goals.
There is a strong emphasis on the practical application of theoretical knowledge.
You'll gain the independent study habits, academic and employability skills and deliver volunteer coaching opportunities that will develop your knowledge and skills as and apply them into applied, real life, coaching situations.
C6R4
Do you have a dual career and attending Edinburgh Napier and representing your sport at international level?
This includes full, student and Under 19 representation.
If so, you may be eligible for an annually reviewed bursary of £1000 per year for four years.
0.54
Throughout this course, you will be taught how to measure and assess athletic performance and ability.
The second and third year sees you building on an introduction to the principles of coaching and how to apply these principles in practice.
Your fourth year will see you gaining advanced skills to enhance coaching opportunities.
There is an opportunity to do work placements on this course.
Study abroad may be possible.
Example institutions include:
Sport Exercise & Wellbeing
What are the entry requirements for Sports Coaching?
Depending on the nature of your placement, a satisfactory Disclosure Check may be required.
* Fitness, Health and Exercise, Sport & Exercise Science, Applied Sports Science, Applied Biological Science, Sports Coaching, Sports Coaching with Development of Sport.
*Sports Coaching with Development of Sport, Coaching and Developing Sport, Sports Coaching and Development, Sports & Exercise Science, Applied Sports Science, Applied Biological Sciences.
A BSc in Sports Coaching at Edinburgh Napier University opens various career opportunities in the sports industry, education, health and fitness sectors, research, and more.
This multidisciplinary and professional degree not only sets you up for a successful career in industry, but you’ll also be well-placed for postgraduate study in a variety of disciplines which could include applied sport science, clinical exercise science/physiology, physiotherapy, health and social care, or research.
You could also pursue further specialisations in areas like sports psychology or strength and conditioning.
Graduates will also gain many highly desirable transferable (meta) skills, including teamwork, leadership, communication, program implementation, and data analysis, which are valued by employers within any sector.
A sports coach plays a critical role in the development and performance of athletes and teams.
Their responsibilities can be extensive and vary depending on the level of competition and the specific sport.
This multifaceted role combines teaching, mentoring, strategy, and management to help athletes and teams achieve their full potential.
A Sports Performance Analyst optimises the performance of athletes and teams by using data and technology to provide insights and recommendations.
They combine their expertise in sports science, data analysis, and technology to provide valuable insights that help athletes and teams maximize their performance.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-sports-coaching-undergraduate-parttime:
Opportunities to study abroad are possible.
GCSE Grade C in Maths also required.
*Sports Coaching with Development of Sport, Coaching and Developing Sport, Sports Coaching and Development,  Sports & Exercise Science, Applied Sports Science, Applied Biological Sciences.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/study-areas/sport-and-exercise-sciences/physical-activity-and-health:
1:35
Check out our MSc in Clinical Exercise science, where you can learn how you can use physical activity to help those suffering clinical diseases and improve the health of the wider population.
You can learn from books as much as you want, but when you get the opportunity to see how clients carry themselves, how they respond, how they feel, how they act, it's always different.
Mindy Jurevicius
MSc Clinical Exercise Science student
1:00

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/study-with-us/postgraduate/meet-us:
If you want to step forward with a subject you love, contact us to find out more.
We have three main campuses in Edinburgh at Craiglockhart, Merchiston and Sighthill.
Each provides a welcoming environment and excellent facilities.
Our staff are always travelling the world meeting new students - find out when they're coming to your country.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/pgdip-career-guidance-and-development-postgraduate-fulltime:
This one-year full-time programme is accredited by the Career Development Institute and is recognised by the profession throughout the UK.
You will study the latest developments in career development theory and career counselling and coaching practice as well as undertake work placements and work based learning to prepare you for work in the career development sector.
The programme will equip you with the knowledge and skills to support your clients navigate the complex web of pathways in employment and education and develop their career potential.
You will work with young people, adults, parents, teachers, employers and training providers.
Full-time (available as Distance Learning )
The PGDip qualified me to practise as a careers guidance professional.
It was interesting, varied and provided invaluable work placement opportunities.
The ENU staff and students I met were fantastic.
Ruth Cawston
PGDip (QCD) Career Guidance and Development
With an excellent employment rate for graduates, our postgraduate diploma combines academic study with practical professional training, including up to four weeks of work placement.
Academic teaching staff on the programme are also qualified and experienced career professionals and bring additional specialist expertise to the course.
You will acquire effective interpersonal communication skills for one-to-one career guidance, working with groups and via online media.
You will learn and put into practice the latest career counselling techniques, while developing the necessary research and teamwork skills to carry you into your own successful career as a career practitioner.
The skills taught are also transferable to many other roles in employment, education and training and former students have also gone on to work in education-industry liaison, and projects promoting mentoring or equality and diversity.
You will learn by a variety of teaching methods including lectures, tutorials, visits to employers, and independent study.
Career counselling skills are developed via individual coaching with an experienced careers adviser.
Up to four weeks of work placement
What are the entry requirements for Career Guidance and Development?
All successful applicants must complete a Protecting Vulnerable Groups (PVG) Scheme or police check.
Can I get admission into Career Guidance and Development based on my working experience in this sector?
In addition to University fees there is another mandatory charge for this programme.
Student membership and registration for the professional body qualification amounts to £365.00 , which is payable to the Career Development Institute (CDI).
Main Employers:

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/pgdip-career-guidance-and-development-dl-postgraduate-distance-learning:
You will study the latest developments in career development theory and career counselling and coaching practice as well as undertake work placements or work-based learning to prepare you for work in the career development sector.
Distance learning (Available as full-time )
The programme is delivered over a two-year part-time basis.
It has six modules taught over the two years (three per year).
As an Edinburgh Napier Student, you will have access to our study support services  and a wealth of digital resources including eJournals and eBooks from the library
Student membership and registration for the professional body qualification amounts to £365.00, which is payable to the Career Development Institute (CDI).”
• Skills Development Scotland • University Careers Services • Community agencies promoting employability for disadvantaged groups

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/pgcert-career-guidance-and-development-postgraduate-online-learning:
This one-year part-time online programme will start jumpstart your career with a profession that is recognised throughout the UK.
You'll also become a member of the Career Development Institute .
You will study the latest developments in career development theory and career counselling and coaching practice.
Students can also progress onto the PG Diploma Career Guidance and Development if they wish to continue their studies.
This programme is to promote a deeper understanding of career development, and to make this accessible to current and future practitioners who would not otherwise be able to access professional training.
This can lead onto work in public career services, university careers services, the private sector, or supporting disadvantaged groups in the community.
This programme may also be suitable for those currently working in the careers and employability sector, or for those who are already established in a different profession and wish to add career development to their skill set.
The skills developed are also widely applicable to many roles in the education, employment and training sectors.
Additional costs:
Our curriculum is designed with the students in mind.
Our key aim is to have well rounded graduates who are confident in their abilities to learn and develop during their career at ENU and beyond.
We work with our students to support the development of their self-reflective skills, which are a required part of professional practice in career guidance.
This self-reflective practice enables students to be aware of their skills and abilities and to understand how they relate to job and career opportunities.
Our aim is to support students to identify and develop their own interests and employability skills which in turn helps the career guidance students learn how to help others to manage their own career development.
• Student support and peer collaboration are embedded into the programmes from day one, during an extended month-long induction period which involves integrated academic skills sessions, peer owned group work practice sessions and a focus on employability with students shadowing members of the Student Futures team at an early stage.
• A dedicated Teams Channel and LinkedIn Student and Alumni group to build up a sense of community and belonging, build a knowledge base and encourage research and practice integration throughout the programme.
• On going weekly support in tutorials and skills practice workshops using an active learning approach involving demonstration, role play, mirroring, peer practice, feedback and reflection.
Taking the opportunity to study abroad within a network of partner institutions provides you with a range of benefits and transferrable skills.
A range of authentic assessments have been developed away from formal essays.
This includes oral presentations, case studies, projects, posters and skills demonstrations.
Formative assessments take place throughout the trimester for the progressive building up of knowledge and skills.
Students will satisfy the CDI requirements through their employment in Skills Development Scotland or other employer.
Students have access to a ‘work-based mentor’ in the workplace who has the role assisting students with applying learning to the workplace.
Students are actively encouraged to engage in extra-curricular and volunteering opportunities to practice guidance skills, build confidence and strengthen employability skills.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/pgde-professional-graduate-diploma-in-education-biology-postgraduate-fulltime:
If you want to make a career teaching Biology and science in secondary schools, this course is for you.
Now is your opportunity to inspire young people with your enthusiasm and love of the subject.
This new course is designed to blend knowledge, research and the experiences of successful teachers.
This approach will help you grow your motivation, confidence and creativity to help you succeed in the classroom.
We will also explore different teaching approaches and methodologies including interdisciplinary learning classroom research, and using technology for assessment and reflection.
As a result, you will work not just with university tutors, but also the wider educational community and experts who will give you holistic advice and support on many issues affecting young people and school communities.
Apply for this course now through UCAS
Aug
C1X2
This is a one-year, full-time course, split into three trimesters.
Starting in August, you will spend a total of 18 weeks in University and 18 weeks in secondary school placements over the duration of your course.
Taught Modules:
These four modules will help develop your skills as a dynamic and effective teacher.
All modules are SCQF Level 11.
Learning & Teaching 1&2
These modules are related to knowledge of the curriculum and school placements.
You will explore effective methodologies, curriculum design, and keep up-to-date with current initiatives from the Scottish Government’s “A Curriculum for Excellence” and “The Attainment Challenge” policies.
Contexts of Learning
This module will allow you to explore the theory and policy underpinning our educational system.
We will explore keys themes such as behaviour management, additional support needs and more, both in theory and practice.
Visiting experts will offer professional advice on complex issues.
Professional Enquiry
This module will prepare you to undertake an action research project.
The project will be combined with an interdisciplinary project in your later placement, which will give invaluable insights into the complexities of making changes to practice and equip you with research methods.
You will be taught by a team of experienced lecturers who have extensive knowledge of both the Higher Education sector and Secondary schools.
The University-based work consists of four Modules and is based around the school curriculum and the way it is taught (Curricular Pedagogy and Educational Studies).
During school placements you will undertake a variety of tasks to help you understand and develop the skills needed to be a professional teacher.
You will be assessed in a variety of ways across four academic modules, from critical reflection to literature reviews.
On placement, you will also complete formal classroom observations, which will assess your placement time as a whole.
You will also complete classroom-based research that will contribute to a formal report, and attend a practitioner conference where your projects will be presented.
In this module you will be introduced to the theories, policy, legislation and issues relevant to Secondary education in Scotland.
Through attending lectures and seminars, you will build a critical understanding of the purposes of education, theories of how learning takes place, the complex and sometimes challenging influences that can impact on learning, and the policies and legislation that frame this learning.
Using reading, discussion and reflection, you will be encouraged and supported in developing the professional values and qualities expected of student teachers by the GTCS in their Standards for Provisional Registration.
Learning and Teaching 1 is designed to explore the professional values, personal commitment, complex pedagogical approaches and subject knowledge required in curricular specialisms.
There will be a focus on the Senior Phase of secondary school to allow you to develop your confidence in working with pupils who are working towards external qualifications.
You will develop your skills in planning and delivering lessons, or portions of lessons, which are relevant, challenging and engaging, using research and evidence-informed teaching strategies.
This module builds on Learning & Teaching 1.
Through this module you will further develop your understanding of your subject area within the secondary curriculum and strengthen your confidence with a range of pedagogical approaches and assessment strategies.
You will also continue to develop your personal understanding of the professional values and personal commitment expected of student teachers set out in the GTCS Standards for Provisional Registration.
You will also develop an appreciation of how your role as a subject teacher contributes to whole school/system commitments to broader educational policy areas.
This module is focussed on building your skills in practitioner-based enquiry in schools.
It will help you develop this skill through focusing on an area of your own teaching practice and focussing on building your skills in this area through reflective practice.
Practitioner enquiry is one of the key elements in the GTCS Professional Standards and in Scottish Education policy2.3.2 Have knowledge and understanding of the importance of research and engagement in professional enquiry, 3.4.1 Read and critically engage with professional literature, educational research and policy.After completing this module, you will have an understanding of how practitioner enquiry can be an integral aspect of the day-to-day practice of teachers.
You will gain an appreciation that successful teaching requires regular engagement in practitioner enquiry, recognising how to use enquiry to drive forward an aspect of your teaching.
Indicative ContentThe module content will allow you to explore all the features of professional enquiry and provide a useful toolkit for you to undertake your own enquiry in a school setting.
These will include introduction to professional enquiry and how it can support teachers?
professional development throughout their careers We will then introduce models of enquiry to allow you to move from a hunch about your teaching, to developing a clear enquiry question that will form the basis of your enquiry.
All of these activities will be grounded in the British Education Research Association ethical guidelines relating to educational research.
In this placement module, you will put into practice the professional knowledge and skills gained in Teaching and Learning 1 (LT1).
You will spend 35 days in a secondary school planning, teaching and reflecting, thus developing the professional capacities to effectively plan and teach lessons, predominantly in the senior phase (S3-S6).
You will have opportunities to demonstrate increasing confidence in your abilities; and to inspire pupils with your subject knowledge and use of effective learning and teaching strategies.
In preparation for the placement, you will attend classes on reflective practice, child protection and safeguarding policy, professional values and professionalism, and self-evaluation.
During the placement, you will gather evidence for future professional recognition by the General Teaching Council Scotland (GTCS) to show you have met the Standards for Provisional Registration (SPR).
This will mainly be done by writing a reflective journal where you will record your reflections on the lessons you have taught during School Experience 1 and through the collation of lesson plans, mentor observations, and teaching resources in a Record of Professional Learning.
You will be assessed against learning outcomes and demonstrate achievement of the learning outcomes as per GTCS standards.
A 20-credit module incorporates 200 notional study hours; however, to meet GTCS requirements, this module requires you to undertake 210 hours of practical learning experience within a school setting.
In this module, you will undertake 55 days of school placement to further develop the knowledge, skills and values set out in the General Teaching Council Scotland (GTCS) Standards for Provisional Registration.
You will teach a selection of classes across the senior and broad general education phases of secondary school.
You will be supported by your mentor, who will gradually withdraw support as you develop your confidence and competence and will increase your contact time towards a maximum of 18 classes per week.
You will be required to undertake six critical incident analyses, allowing you to reflect on key moments of professional development and set development targets.
You will be prepared for this through lectures before placement.You will be assessed against learning outcomes and demonstrate achievement of the learning outcomes as per GTCS standards.
A 20-credit module incorporates 200 notional study hours; however, to meet GTCS requirements, this module requires you to undertake 330 hours of practical learning experience within a school setting.
What are the entry requirements for Education Biology?
The entry requirements for this course are a degree from a UK Higher Education Institution, or degree of an equivalent standard from an institution outside the UK.
The degree should be in the subject to be taught and contain at least two graduating courses (80 credits) in the relevant subject.
A minimum of 40 credits should be from Year 2 of study.
Ordinary Degrees are also acceptable.
We also require SQA Higher English at Grade C or equivalent as well SQA National 5 Mathematics or SQA National 5 Applications of Mathematics at grade C or equivalent.
Please note you will also be expected to attend an interview.
SUBJECT-SPECIFIC GUIDANCE
Biology
80 credits across two modules are acceptable.
These 80 credits should come from subjects such as Animal Biology, Biochemistry, Human Biology or Bio-molecular Sciences.
The following degrees are NOT acceptable: Nursing, Sports Science, Physiotherapy, Veterinary, Medicine, Nutrition, and Physiology when combined with Sports Science.
Secondary Biology and Science Teacher (Can be in Scotland, UK or most countries of the world.)

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/pgde-professional-graduate-diploma-in-education-biology-postgraduate-parttime:
This is a two year, part-time route to gain your PGDE qualification.
On successful completion of the Diploma, you will have met the requirements to apply for teacher registration and will need to fulfil a probationary role before becoming a fully qualified teacher in Scotland.
Each year, starting in August, you will attend part-time for a total of 18 weeks in University and 18 weeks in secondary school placements.
This module will prepare you to undertake an action research project.The project will be combined with an interdisciplinary project in your later placement, which will give invaluable insights into the complexities of making changes to practice and equip you with research methods.
You are also required to pass each of three part-time placement blocks teaching in school.
(In order to pass your School Experience module, you must complete ALL school placements satisfactorily.) This comprises 18 weeks of teaching experience in total.
In this route, your placement hours are split across two years, enhancing the flexibility of this route to gain your professional accreditation.
Secondary Biology and Science Teacher (Upon successful completion of a probationary role before becoming a fully qualified teacher in Scotland.)
After registration as a qualified teacher by the General Teaching Council Scotland you c an teach in Scotland, (and generally across the UK, or most countries of the world.)

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/pgde-professional-graduate-diploma-in-education-chemistry-postgraduate-fulltime:
If you want to make a career teaching Chemistry and science in secondary schools, this course is for you.
F1X1
Placement opportunities are subject to UK and Scottish Government health and travel advice.
What are the entry requirements for Education Chemistry?
We also require SQA Higher English at Grade C or equivalent as well as SQA National 5 Mathematics or SQA National 5 Applications of Mathematics at grade C or equivalent.
Chemistry
80 Credits across two modules are acceptable.
Courses should include organic, physical and inorganic chemistry.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/pgde-professional-graduate-diploma-in-education-chemistry-postgraduate-parttime:
Secondary Chemistry and Science Teacher (Upon successful completion of a probationary role before becoming a fully qualified teacher in Scotland.)
After registration as a qualified teacher by the General Teaching Council Scotland you can teach in Scotland, (and generally across the UK, or most countries of the world.)

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/pgde-professional-graduate-diploma-in-education-(english)-ft-postgraduate-fulltime:
If you want to make a career teaching English in secondary schools, this course is for you.
F2X1
You will also complete classroom-based research that will contribute to a formal report, and attend a practitioner conference where your projects will be presented
There are a total of 18 weeks required for school experience placements these are split into three blocks across the year, and in two different secondary schools.
What are the entry requirements for Education (English)?
English
A minimum of 40 credits should come from at least one of the following subjects:
-English literature (this can include English Translation) -Scottish literature -A maximum of 20 SCQF credit points in Media Studies
Secondary English Teacher (in Scotland, UK or most countries of the world).

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/pgde-professional-graduate-diploma-in-education-english-postgraduate-parttime:
Secondary English Teacher (Upon successful completion of a probationary role before becoming a fully qualified teacher in Scotland.)

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/pgde-professional-graduate-diploma-in-education-mathematics-postgraduate-fulltime:
If you want to make a career teaching Maths in secondary schools, this course is for you.
G1X1
What are the entry requirements for Education (Mathematics)?
We also require SQA Higher English at Grade C or equivalent as well as a SQA National 5 Mathematics or SQA National 5 Applications of Mathematics at grade C or equivalent.
Mathematics
Most Mathematics-based courses and many Engineering degrees meet the requirements for PGDE Entry in Mathematics.
Accountancy and/or Finance Economics are usually NOT acceptable if Mathematics is not explicitly studied as a distinct course within the degree programme.

New sentences found on https://napier.ac.uk/courses/pgde-professional-graduate-diploma-in-education-mathematics-postgraduate-parttime:
If you want to make a career teaching Mathematics in secondary schools, this course is for you.